BLUFFDALE CITY
 GENERAL PLAN
           2022
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The following individuals contributed to the Bluffdale City General Plan.


Adopted June 8, 2022 by the Bluffdale City Council.




BLUFFDALE CITY                                                      WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL COUNCIL
STAFF                                                               Megan Townsend
Grant Crowell, City Planner/Economic Development Director           Mikala Jordan
Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner
Ellen Oakman, Associate Planner                                     CONSULTANT TEAM
Bruce Kartchner, Administrative Services Director                   Mark Morris, VODA
                                                                    Annaliese VerMerris, VODA
CITY COUNCIL                                                        Alison Lewis, MHTN
Natalie Hall, Mayor                                                 Vincent Olcott, MHTN
Derk Timothy, Former Mayor                                          Benj Becker, ZBPF
Dave Kallas                                                         Tyler Partridge, ZBPF
Wendy Aston                                                         Tim Sullivan, Township + Range
Jeff Gaston
Mark Hales
Traci Crockett


PLANNING COMMISSION
Debbie Cragun, Chair
Kory Luker, Vice Chair
Johnny Loumis
Erik Swanson
Ulises Flynn
Tina Griffis
TABLE OF CONTENTS

    INTRODUCTION + PLAN VISION		              5
    GENERAL PLAN TOOLKIT			15
    LAND USE					27
          USE			              		27
    HOUSING					36
    ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT			43
    OPEN SPACE + TRAILS				52
    RESILIENCY					57
    RESILIENCY				                            57
    APPENDIX 					 II
           COMMUNITY SURVEY RESULTS
           TRANSPORTATION PLAN
           ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT
           2022 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIC PLAN
           2021 MODERATE INCOME HOUSING REPORT
           2021 WATER CONSERVATION PLAN UPDATE
           2015 BLUFFDALE PARKS, TRAILS, RECREATION
           & OPEN SPACE MASTER PLAN
                                                                                                                BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                               1.0 INTRODUCTION
                                                                    + PLAN VISION
                                                            BACKGROUND + INTRODUCTION
                                                            Located at the south end of Salt Lake County and north end of Utah County,
                                                            the City of Bluffdale is home to wide open spaces, dramatic mountain views
                                                            of the Wasatch range, and a significant stretch of the Jordan River (Figure 1.1).
                                                            The lifestyle enjoyed in Bluffdale has drawn many new residents, increasing
                                                            the population in the last twenty years and incurring rapid housing and
                                                            infrastructure expansion.

                                                            To provide a contextual example of this growth, since the last General Plan was
Figure 1.1 - Bluffdale is a city with unparalleled access
                                                            developed eight years ago, the variety and quantity of housing within the city
to open space and natural spaces in Salt Lake County.       has grown rapidly, with multiple developments on the eastern side of Bluffdale
                                                            being constructed in recent years.

                                                            The growth Bluffdale is experiencing calls for a fresh look at current
                                                            conditions and community needs, and updated planning direction.

                                                            As a primarily residential community, the residents of Bluffdale desire to protect
                                                            the pace and feel of the community while expanding amenities for its current
                                                            residents and future population. Community values include: encouraging a
                                                            variety of local employment, retail, and service opportunities; safeguarding the
                                                            tax rate; ensuring that public infrastructure adequately serves the population;
                                                            enhancing recreation opportunities; improving the transportation system to
Figure 1.2 - Bluffdale has recently been investing in
                                                            serve the housing expansion; and maintaining large lot neighborhoods. The
significant infrastructure to prepare for continued         chapters in this plan outline several planning elements and specific goals and
growth in the next decade.                                  implementation strategies. These goals and strategies establish policy guidance
                                                            for achieving Bluffdale’s community vision into the future.




                                                                                                       1.0 Introduction + Plan Vision       4
                                                                                                                         BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                                     1.1 PLAN STRUCTURE
BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN                                               The Bluffdale City General Plan documents existing conditions and analyzes
CHAPTER STRUCTURE                                                    important issues and ideas, presenting a clear vision for growth and
                                                                     development in Bluffdale. The plan is divided into six chapters:
     CHAPTER TITLE

      INTRODUCTION   1. EXISTING
                     CONDITIONS
                                                    3. POLICIES +
                                                    IMPLEMENTATION         » General Plan Toolkit
                                                    GOAL

                                                                           » Land Use
                                   2. FUTURE
                                   CONSIDERATIONS


                                                     Policies


                                                     Strategies
                                                                           » Housing
                                                                           » Economic Development
                                                                           » Open Space and Trails
Figure 1.3 - Bluffdale General Plan Chapter Structure
                                                                           » Resiliency

                                                                     Each chapter is organized with the following sections (Figure 1.3):
                                                                     1. Existing Conditions
                                                                           » The existing conditions section details current conditions and trends
                                                                             that relate to the future recommendations in the general plan.
                                                                     2. Future Considerations
                                                                           » Future considerations for each chapter describe various issues and
                                                                             trends that may impact planning decisions in Bluffdale in the next
                                                                             decade related to that particular chapter topic.

Figure 1.4 - With a simple organization, the intent
                                                                     3. Policies and Implementation
of the General Plan structure is that it is useable by
                                                                           » The policies and implementation strategies in each section provide
Bluffdale City Staff, City Council, Planning Commission,
as well as by the general public.                                            recommended steps and tasks for making informed decisions that
                                                                             are collectively consistent with the vision for the City’s future and the
                                                                             policies to support that vision.

                                                                     Although each element is specific in its focus, land use is fully coordinated with
                                                                     the assessment of each element and its individual needs. Each element provides
                                                                     specific ideas and recommendations, concluding with a series of policies and
                                                                     implementation measures that provide a clear and implementable vision for the
                                                                     future, facilitating an informed and consistent decision-making process.




                                                                                                                1.0 Introduction + Plan Vision       5
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         1.2 PUBLIC OUTREACH SUMMARY
                                                         The ideas in this plan stem from a series of public engagement events. These
                                                         events brought together community members and stakeholders representing
                                                         diverse backgrounds. Including citizen voices and perspectives were critical in
                                                         creating a plan which reflects the values of Bluffdale residents.

                                                         In order to gauge the community’s temperature on a variety of items and
                                                         issues, a survey was distributed in February, 2021. The survey was well received,
                                                         with approximately 620 residents of Bluffdale participating. The results and
                                                         subsequent conversations helped to inform City staff in the desires of its
                                                         residents, as well as guiding the recommendations contained in this plan. A few
Figure 1.5 - Community education event at                key takeaways from the survey were that most residents desired to maintain
Independence Park, May, 2021.
                                                         access to open space, keep the “rural” feeling of Bluffdale, and attract in more
                                                         dining, grocery, and shopping options. The full results of the public survey can
                                                         be found in the appendix of this document.

                                                         In May 2021, the City held a community night at Independence Park (Figure 1.5).
                                                         VODA consultants and City staff created an educational experience at the event
                                                         that included a series of poster boards and questionnaires. The consultant and
                                                         staff interacted with approximately 30 individuals at this event.

                                                         In September 2021, the City held an open house in the Community room at
                                                         Bluffdale’s City Hall (Figure 1.6). This open house focused on public education
                                                         through presentation of the February 2021 survey results, future projects and
                                                         plans, future land use, transportation, housing, economic development, and
                                                         parks and trails framework.

                                                         Throughout the general plan process, the City also maintained a webpage on its
                                                         website designated specifically to provide updates on the process. The City also
                                                         sent out monthly newsletters to residents with updates and information. This
                                                         information included upcoming public outreach events, planning commission
                                                         meetings, city council meetings, and recently reviewed information by city staff.

                                                         The success of the public outreach plan would not have been possible if not for
Figure 1.6 - Public Open House event at Bluffdale City   the input and passion provided by Bluffdale City and its community.
Hall, September, 2021.




                                                                                                   1.0 Introduction + Plan Vision      6
                                                                                                                      BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                            1.3 COMMUNITY SUMMARY
                                                           The Bluffdale area was settled in 1848 and incorporated as the City of Bluffdale
                                                           on October 13, 1978. The creation of the Utah Territory was the result of the
                                                           petition sent to the United State government by the Mormon pioneers who had
                                                           settled in the valley of the Great Salt Lake starting in 1847.

                                                           Bluffdale is a crossroads for transportation and utilities between Salt Lake and
                                                           Utah Counties. It is home to open spaces (Figure 1.7), views of the Wasatch
                                                           and Oquirrh mountain ranges and a significant stretch of the Jordan River.
Figure 1.7 - Photograph of Bluffdale showing the
City’s character of trails, agricultural land uses, and    “Life Connected” is the motto for the City of Bluffdale- connecting the 17,014
predominately single-family homes.                         residents, two counties and active lifestyles.1


                                                            1.4 COMMUNITY PROFILE
                                                           The following is a summary of the physical, social and demographic
                                                           characteristics in Bluffdale. These are essential qualities for understanding the
                                                           opportunities, needs, and patterns of the City today and in the future.

                                                            PHYSICAL STRUCTURE
                                                           Bluffdale City is located in southwestern Salt Lake County, with a portion of the
                                                           city located across the county line in Utah County (Figure 1.8), and has a total
                                                           land area of 11.12 square miles, according to the most recent 2022 Bluffdale GIS
                                                           data. Directly adjacent to Bluffdale are Herriman City to the west, Riverton to the
                                                           north, and Draper City to the east, and Lehi to the south. Bluffdale City has an
                                                           average elevation of 4,436 feet.

                                                           Redwood Road is Bluffdale’s primary north-south thoroughfare. Interstate 15 runs
                                                           parallel to Redwood Road to the east. The planned completion of the connection
                                                           in 2022 of Porter Rockwell Boulevard will provide the city with yet another east-
                                                           west, north-south arterial. Bangerter Highway runs east to west on the northern
                                                           border of Bluffdale. 14600 South is the City’s largest east-west arterial.

                                                           Bluffdale’s commercial development is concentrated along the I-15 corridor, at
                                                           the intersections of Bangerter Highway and Redwood Road, as well as Bangerter
                                                           Highway’s intersection with 2700 West, and along 14600 South, east of Redwood
                                                           Road. Also located near the I-15 corridor is the majority of the city’s denser
Figure 1.8 - Bluffdale is located at the southern end of   residential development. The remainder of the city is made up of large lot single-
Salt Lake County with a small portion in Utah County
and the junction of key transportation routes and
                                                           family residential neighborhoods and open spaces along and west of the Jordan
mountain ranges.                                           River corridor.




                                                           1 Source: https://www.bluffdale.com/374/About-Bluffdale#:~:text=The%20City%20of%20Bluffdale%20
                                                           was,Salt%20Lake%20starting%20in%201847.


                                                                                                            1.0 Introduction + Plan Vision           7
                                                                                                              BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                         In order to understand the needs of the City, it is essential to have a clear
                                                         snapshot of Bluffdale’s population, age, and household composition. This allows
                                                         one to assess current and future needs for elements such as land use, housing,
                                                         and economic development. The following is a summary of key demographic
                                                         characteristics, including population, age, and household composition, which
                                                         tend to be the most crucial for understanding needs as communities develop
                                                         and evolve.

                                                          POPULATION

                                                         Bluffdale City saw significant population growth between 2010 and 2020, more
                                                         than doubling its population, from 7,043 in 2010 to 17,014 in 2020, according to
                                                         2020 census data (Figure 1.9). The population is expected to double once again
Figure 1.9 - Bluffdale’s annual growth rate and          by 2050. The state as well as Salt Lake County are also expected to see major
population projections, according to the 2020 Census.
                                                         population growth over the next 30 years, largely by natural means (high birth
                                                         rates).

                                                          AGE

                                                         Age is an essential consideration when planning for future land uses,
                                                         transportation needs, economic development techniques, and open space. The
                                                         age characteristics of Bluffdale are unique. When compared to Salt Lake County
                                                         and other southwest valley cities, the median age is approximately two to three
                                                         years younger. Where the southwest valley and Salt Lake County have a median
                                                         age of 31.6 and 33 years old, Bluffdale’s median age is 29.5 (Figure 1.10). The City
Figure 1.10 - Bluffdale’s median age according to data
acquired from 2020 ACS 5-Year Estimates.                 has more children under the age of nineteen, and fewer seniors than the state
                                                         and Salt Lake County. This supports the data that the City’s children are generally
                                                         younger than those in other communities in the county and the state, and that
                                                         the Bluffdale population overall is younger than the rest of the county.

                                                         The percentage of residents under age eighteen has steadily increased over time.
                                                         This is supported by the median age statistics, which have steadily decreased
                                                         over time as well. This is a significant finding, as Bluffdale still has a younger
                                                         population than Salt Lake County and other rapidly growing Salt Lake County
                                                         communities, which are some of the youngest in the state and nation. Helping
                                                         to provide a clear understanding of the population breakdown will reflect in the
                                                         recommendations for implementation strategies in this plan, in order to meet
                                                         the needs of the various age groups.

                                                          HOUSEHOLD SIZE

                                                         Average household size is often closely related to the age characteristics of a
                                                         community. Larger household sizes are often found in communities with a large
                                                         portion of young families with more children. Smaller household size indicates
Figure 1.11- Bluffdale’s median household size           that there is a larger contingent of smaller families or families with adult children
according to data acquired from 2020 ACS 5-Year          that may have moved out on their own. In the case of Bluffdale, the average
Estimates.


                                                                                                    1.0 Introduction + Plan Vision       8
                                                                                                        BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                    household size is 3.72, which is significantly higher than the Salt Lake County
                                                    average of 2.95 and only slightly higher than the southwest valley average of 3.6
                                                    (Figure 1.11). Therefore, it makes sense that Bluffdale, with its average age being
                                                    two to three years younger, also has a large average household size.

                                                     HOUSEHOLD INCOME

                                                    The median household income in the City is $113,023 which is significantly
                                                    higher than the southwest valley average and Salt Lake County. The median
                                                    income has increased over time from $87,536 in 2010 (Figure 1.12). Cities with
                                                    higher-than-average incomes can expect an increase in demand for services and
                                                    commercial uses, with higher rates of discretionary income per household.

                                                     SUMMARY

                                                    Bluffdale’s population is projected to continue growing at a rate 2.14% per
Figure 1.12 - Bluffdale’s median household income
                                                    year over the next 30 years, as the east side of the City continues to develop.
according to data acquired from 2020 ACS 5-Year     The Bluffdale community has more children under the age of nineteen when
Estimates.                                          compared to the county, state and nation. The percentage of seniors in the
                                                    community has slowly increased, and the overall median age continues to
                                                    decline. Bluffdale’s household size is significantly higher than the county, and
                                                    has increased over time, unlike many other communities in the surrounding
                                                    area. The City’s median income is significantly higher than the Salt Lake County
                                                    average and the state as a whole.

                                                    As the City continues to develop it will be important to apply a balanced
                                                    approach for meeting the needs of a population with a diverse range of ages,
                                                    particularly addressing needs related to parks, open space, recreation and trails.
                                                    The specific needs of children and seniors will need to be carefully considered,
                                                    such as education and senior services, as it can be difficult to meet the needs of
                                                    such diverse segments of the population in an equitable and economic manner.


                                                    1.5 COMMUNITY VISION
                                                    The vision for Bluffdale was created through public input, as well as city staff and
                                                    leadership of Bluffdale, and is intended to be a concise and cohesive statement
                                                    of the desired future for the City. In addition to an overall vision for the future
                                                    of Bluffdale, goals were developed for the five elements of the plan – land use,
                                                    housing, economic development, open space and trails, and resiliency. These
                                                    elements have been identified as the key factors in helping to establish the
                                                    essence of a complete city. As indicated previously, these elements form the
                                                    basis of the General Plan structure and provide an organizational framework and
                                                    platform to clearly and concisely present the plan’s goals. These specific goals,
Figure 1.13 - Bluffdale City Hall                   along with descriptive maps and illustrations, describe the City’s desired future
                                                    character for each of the six plan elements.




                                                                                               1.0 Introduction + Plan Vision       9
                                                                                  BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                               Effective and efficient cooperative use of limited resources, whether financial,
                               societal, or natural, is essential to achieve the goals of this general plan and
                               progress toward a sustainable future. Through its implementation, Bluffdale
                               can be a place where people live close to where they work and play; where a
                               balanced transportation network connects mixed-use centers; and where access
                               to open space and recreational opportunities is abundant. These principles are
                               integrated into the goals of this general plan.


                               1.6 GENERAL PLAN VISION
                               Bluffdale City plans for a future that preserves existing neighborhoods,
                               encourages expansion of commercial opportunities that provide resources to
                               Bluffdale residents, improves alternative transportation opportunities, supports a
                               variety of housing choices, protects valuable public and open spaces, and fosters
                               policies that support conservation and resiliency.

                               LAND USE

                                GOALS
                               1. Support a variety and an increased concentration of uses in strategic
                                  locations within the City, to improve economic activity (Figure 1.4).
                               2. Encourage land uses that support economic development while retaining
                                  the existing character of the City and its neighborhoods.
Figure 1.14 - Rockwell Ridge
                                POLICIES
                               1. Focus development in key centers within the City.
                               2. Physically integrate residential uses with other uses in a manner that
                                  provides opportunities for pedestrian-oriented development in growth
                                  centers.
                               3. Create a balance between commercial uses and housing.

                                IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
                               1. Adopt land use ordinances and development agreements that ensure
                                  centers are designed to be compact, safe, attractive, and accessible to all
                                  travel modes and user abilities.
                               2. Utilize incentives and other financial tools to highlight and prioritize the
                                  importance of areas targeted for development as neighborhood centers.
                               3. Combine housing, employment, and supporting infrastructure in mixed-use
                                  centers at strategic locations.
                               4. Maintain consistent low density zoning designations in existing low density
                                  zoned neighborhoods.




                                                                          1.0 Introduction + Plan Vision     10
                                                                                                          BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                        HOUSING

                                                        GOALS
                                                        1. Retain character of established neighborhoods.
                                                        2. Provide a variety of high-quality housing choices that incorporates a range
                                                           of types, tenancies, and densities (Figure 1.15).
                                                        3. Ensure new housing stock addresses a range of income levels and life stages.
                                                        4. Follow and implement state housing statute guidance.

                                                        POLICIES

Figure 1.15 - Independence residential development in   1. Consider specific location and surrounding neighborhood when reviewing
the foreground, with Westgate beyond.                      and evaluating new or infill development.
                                                        2. Support alternative housing types such as Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs),
                                                           in all areas of the City, and coordinate and align Housing and Land Use
                                                           Elements within the General Plan.
                                                        3. Encourage flexible housing guidelines to respond to evolving market
                                                           conditions.

                                                        IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
                                                        1. Amend zoning ordinance in single-family zones to ensure context sensitivity
                                                           of location and density of infill and new development, using elements such
                                                           as setbacks, landscaping, fencing, and transitional heights.
                                                        2. Develop clear guidance of potential future locations for housing density.
                                                        3. Adopt land use regulations that develop as the housing market changes for
                                                           different populations of residents.

                                                        ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

                                                        GOALS
                                                        1. Improve the quality of life for residents by promoting the expansion of daily
                                                           shopping needs, and job opportunities, within the boundaries of Bluffdale.
                                                        2. Support City policies that embrace the changing retail and commercial
                                                           climate in Bluffdale.
                                                        3. Promote job growth for current and future residents (Figure 1.16), thereby
                                                           reducing transportation costs and commute times.

Figure 1.16 - Mountain Point Business Center




                                                                                                 1.0 Introduction + Plan Vision        11
                                                                                                              BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                          POLICIES
                                                          1. Support retail uses to reduce retail sales leakage outside of the City.
                                                          2. Diversify Bluffdale’s tax base, reducing the City’s dependency on property
                                                             taxes.
                                                          3. Acknowledge residential development as a contributing factor to the
                                                             economic viability of Bluffdale.
                                                          4. Focus on key nodes within the City that have the highest development
                                                             potential.
                                                          5. Ensure a balance between the needs and wants of residents, property
                                                             owners, city staff, and elected officials.

                                                          STRATEGIES
                                                          1. Identify priority sectors, etc.
                                                          2. Analyze zoning schemes and community attributes for alignment.
                                                          3. Utilize economic development tools to provide incentives, as necessary or
                                                             desired, to target specific business types.
                                                          4. Partner with businesses and developers to expand current operations or to
                                                             bring in retail sectors that the City lacks.
                                                          5. Consider performing a fiscal impact analysis of development scenarios,
                                                             including online tax collection.
                                                          6. Attract retail businesses to build up sales tax base.
                                                          7. Utilize appropriate incentives for key industries and businesses at key nodes
                                                             in the City.
                                                          8. Increase vocational, technological, recreational, and entrepreneurial
                                                             employment opportunities in accordance with State of Utah Cluster
                                                             Initiatives.
                                                          9. Work closely with the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity and EDC
                                                             Utah on possible locations for new businesses.

                                                          PARKS & TRAILS

                                                          GOALS
                                                          1. Promote a parks and trails system that provides outstanding active and
                                                             passive community gathering opportunities (Figure 1.17).
                                                          2. Design and develop a comprehensive trails system that effectively
                                                             accommodates a mixture of uses.

Figure 1.17 - Jordan River Parkway Trail, in Bluffdale.   3. Protect and improve existing parks, open space, and trails by creating a
                                                             long-term comprehensive plan allocating funds for operation and ongoing
                                                             maintenance costs




                                                                                                    1.0 Introduction + Plan Vision     12
                                                                                                    BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                            POLICIES + IMPLEMENTATION
                                            1. Promote a park and trails system that provides outstanding active and
                                               passive community gathering and recreation opportunities.
                                            2. Create a trails master plan with priorities and update 2015 Parks Master Plan.
                                            3. Protect and improve existing parks, open space, and trails by creating a
                                               long-term comprehensive plan allocating funds for operation and ongoing
                                               maintenance costs.

                                            RESILIENCY

                                            GOALS
                                            1. Support preservation of natural features that contribute to the character of
                                               Bluffdale (Figure 1.18).
                                            2. Encourage city policies that support economic and fiscal resiliency.
                                            3. Support social resiliency by promoting policies that encourage community
                                               engagement and public participation.

                                            POLICIES
                                            1. Identify the City’s resiliency priorities.
Figure 1.18 - Bluffdale’s natural setting   2. Establish a resiliency working group.
                                            3. Engage residents and staff in the resiliency discussion by initiating an
                                               education and awareness effort.

                                            STRATEGIES
                                            1. Coordinate with other municipalities and entities on policies that support
                                               resiliency (recycling, water usage, active transportation, land use, economic
                                               development)
                                            2. Develop a portfolio of recommended resilient design standards, such as
                                               such as water-wise landscaping, permeable paving, and other features to
                                               encourage developers to incorporate sustainable design elements in future
                                               projects.




                                                                                            1.0 Introduction + Plan Vision   13
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




               2.0 GENERAL PLAN TOOLKIT

                                                         2.1 INTRODUCTION
                                                         This Planning Toolkit seeks to provide broad guidance as it relates to specific
                                                         planning tasks for Bluffdale City staff and officials. The framework maps and best
                                                         practices outlined here are a broad structure for decision making when planning
                                                         issues are evaluated by the City. Specific goals, policies, implementation
                                                         strategies, and other clear recommendations are outlined in detail in each
                                                         subsequent chapter of the General Plan.

                                                         FRAMEWORK MAPS
Figure 2.1- The General Plan Toolkit provides city       Framework maps (Figure 2.2) are designed to simplify and summarize the
staff, elected officials, and planning commissioners a
                                                         City’s basic planning approach looking into the future. Each chapter of the
framework for planning decision making specific to the
needs of Bluffdale.                                      General Plan (with the exception of the Resiliency chapter) has a corresponding
                                                         framework map to help with planning decision making.

                                                         Each map represents an illustration of the general concept of future
                                                         recommendations for that specific planning topic. The framework maps within
                                                         the planning toolkit are organized by chapter; Land Use, Transportation, Housing,
                                                         Economic Development, and Open Space and Trails

                                                         BEST PRACTICES
                                                         Best Practices are a set of methods that have been generally proven as great
                                                         planning practices with positive results for municipalities across the region and
                                                         country that face similar issues to Bluffdale.

                                                         The Best Practices section of the planning toolkit helps to bring concepts that
                                                         are largely supported by the planning community to the local scale. While not
Figure 2.2- The General Plan Toolkit includes            every city is the same, these planning best practices can be applied in specific
‘framework maps’ that simplify planning concepts for     ways within Bluffdale.
each chapter of the General Plan, providing decision
makers with a quick way to understand planning           The best practices in the toolkit are broken out by chapter; Land Use, Housing,
context when making a determination for the
community.
                                                         Economic Development, Open Space and Trails and Resiliency.




                                                                                                         2.0 General Plan Toolkit      14
                                                                                           BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                        2.2 LAND USE FRAMEWORK
                                        The land use framework map (Figure 2.3) is a general concept illustrating future
                                        land use. The majority of the current zoning designations in Bluffdale are very
                                        similar to the proposed land use designations and do not need to be changed.
                                        Most parts of the city, typically residential neighborhoods, are relatively stable
                                        with no anticipated land use changes. The established residential neighborhoods
                                        should be preserved, with any infill development complementary to existing
                                        development.

                                        Based on their spatial characteristics, these dynamic opportunity areas are
                                        divided into two types: centers and corridors. The Land Use Framework Map
                                        identifies the locations of these centers and corridors within the context of the
                                        City’s other major land uses. This framework represents the overall structure of
                                        the land use goals and should be used in conjunction with the other framework
                                        maps.


 Figure 2.3 - Bluffdale Land Use
 Framework Map

Flex Corridor: Mix of uses along
a significant arterial route.
Appropriate for commercial,
residential, and other small-scale
mixed use projects.

Potential Retail Node: locations in
the city with the most favorable
metrics for feasible retail centers.

Mixed Use Centers:
Neighborhoods where a mix
of retail, commercial, office,
residential in a variety of densities
are the most appropriate.

Residential: Neighborhoods
in Bluffdale with primarily
residential uses, where new
infill development scale will
be determined by the adjacent
density of neighborhood.




                                                                                        2.0 General Plan Toolkit     15
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                         2.3 LAND USE BEST PRACTICES
                                                         1. Develop community as a network of neighborhoods with
                                                         distinct centers and multimodal connections
                                                         Centers form a network of complementary employment, retail, cultural, and civic
                                                         opportunities linked by multi-modal transportation systems. Bluffdale, since
                                                         it is without a distinct center, may consider working toward developing a
                                                         recognized town center, along with smaller, neighborhood centers serving
                                                         a variety of purposes. Centers should be arranged in a spatial hierarchy based
                                                         upon proximity to; (a) regional rapid transit connections; (b) population density
                                                         in surrounding communities and adjacent portions of the region; and (c) other
Figure 2.5 - Outdoor gathering spaces are an important
                                                         centers (Figure 2.5).
part of successful centers (FCM Hospitality)

                                                         2. Adopt land use policies that support future transit
                                                         infrastructure
                                                         Bluffdale should work jointly with the development community and transit
                                                         agencies to achieve planning goals along transit corridors and routes.
                                                         Transit oriented developments (TOD’s) can be encouraged through shared
                                                         parking, reduced parking overlay districts, and land banks to preserve land
                                                         parcels near stations for future development. Salt Lake City (UTA) has established
                                                         many areas along its rapid transit lines, where successful development has
                                                         occurred. These generally involve some level of cooperation between the
                                                         development community, local municipalities, and Utah Transit Authority (UTA)
                                                         to rebuild station areas in a manner that generates more ridership for the system,
                                                         and provides transit-oriented housing options for area residents.

                                                         3. Centers should absorb a majority of expected
                                                         population growth and development
                                                         Focusing future development and redevelopment in centers preserves
                                                         existing single-family neighborhoods and offers a mix of uses and services
                                                         that would benefit residents, and should be a key priority for Bluffdale.
Figure 2.4 - Allowing a wide range of housing and
                                                         Centers should generally include a mix of rental and for-sale housing units, and a
ownership types in appropriate areas will expand
housing choices for the Bluffdale community.             horizontal and vertical mix of uses (Figure 2.4).




                                                                                                         2.0 General Plan Toolkit      16
                                                                                         BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                      2.4 HOUSING FRAMEWORK
                                      The Housing Framework Map (Figure 2.6) shows a simplified approach to
                                      planning for housing within Bluffdale. This framework represents the overall
                                      structure of the city and should be used in conjunction with the other
                                      framework maps. This housing framework map is illustrative in nature and is not
                                      a replacement for the Future Land Use Map, discussed and shown in the Land
                                      Use chapter of this document.

                                      Framework concepts for future housing considerations include the following:
                                      1. Define areas within the city where different densities for new housing are
                                         appropriate.
                                      2. Develop context-sensitive policy for residential infill projects in appropriate
                                         areas.
                                      3. Establish future housing locations that correlate with future transportation
                                         investments, by allowing higher housing densities in areas that access public
                                         transit and by maintaining low housing densities in areas with lower access.

Figure 2.6 - Housing Framework
Map

Very Low Concentration: Housing
in this areas continue to allow for
1-acre lots.

Low Concentration: Other areas of
Bluffdale where lots smaller than
1-acre area allowed.

Medium Concentration: Areas
near centers can allow for a higher
concentration of housing, such as
townhomes and patio homes.

High Concentration: Future
regional centers in Bluffdale are
appropriate locations for higher
concentration of housing like
stacked flat apartments and condo
developments.




                                                                                      2.0 General Plan Toolkit       17
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                        2.5 HOUSING BEST PRACTICES
                                                        1. UNDERSTAND THE NEED TO INCREASE
                                                        HOUSING TYPE DIVERSITY
                                                        As Bluffdale’s population continues to grow, and the City competes with
                                                        surrounding municipalities for new businesses, jobs, and residents, the
                                                        demand for different housing will increase. Understanding why housing type
                                                        diversity is important, and how it will benefit Bluffdale, can help garner support
                                                        from the land owners, developers, residents, business owners, elected officials,
                                                        City staff, and other stakeholders.

                                                        THE HOUSING LIFE CYCLE
                                                        Connecting Bluffdale with a diversity of housing types allow people in
                                                        different life stages to coexist in neighborhoods together. The housing life
                                                        cycle, illustrated in Figure 2.7, is a model that provides a general description of
                                                        different life phases and which housing types meet the typical needs of each
                                                        situation. For example, the housing needs of a single college student differ from
                                                        those of a retired empty nester couple, or a two parent family with children.

                                                        Cities and neighborhoods that have a mix of housing types are much better at
                                                        meeting the diverse housing needs of people at any stage of life. Housing type
                                                        diversity promotes community and social opportunity.


Figure 2.7 - The housing life cycle describes how a     MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING
mix of different housing types is necessary to meet
changing housing needs throughout a person’s lifetime   Adapting to changing conditions in a timely manner will help Bluffdale and
(ci.creswell.or.us)                                     its neighborhoods to be vibrant and attractive to residents, businesses,
                                                        and visitors.

                                                        Many typical American cities do not have enough housing type diversity to meet
                                                        the needs of their current and future residents. The group of housing types these
                                                        cities lack is referred to as missing middle housing (Figure 2.8).

                                                        Communities may lack these housing types for a variety of economic, social, and
                                                        political reasons. Many cities, land owners, developers, and other stakeholders
                                                        find it very challenging to break from old traditions as their cities evolve.


Figure 2.8 - The ‘missing
middle’ densities of the
housing stock are an
underserved housing
market across the United
States. Providing a greater
diversity of housing types
will help meet the variable
housing needs of Bluffdale’s
current and future residents
(Opticos)


                                                                                                         2.0 General Plan Toolkit      18
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                       2. OFFER A SPECTRUM OF OPTIONS AND COSTS
                                                       THAT ARE PROPORTIONAL TO THE MAKEUP OF
                                                       THE CITY’S RESIDENTS AND EMPLOYEES AND
                                                       THEIR ABILITY TO PAY FOR HOUSING.
Figure 2.9 - Housing type mixes can be used to
                                                       A successful housing spectrum in Bluffdale will include ample options
transition between different housing densities
(missingmiddlehousing.com)                             (Figure 2.9). The beneficiaries are not only community residents, but also
                                                       employers that are able to draw from a broader spectrum of potential
                                                       employees. Employers will be able to fill a diverse set of jobs, ranging from
                                                       clerical to executive, and will include positions for manufacturing, industrial,
                                                       retail, services, and others.


                                                       3. FOCUS ON IDENTIFYING THE NEEDS OF THE
                                                       FUTURE POPULATION, AS WELL AS THE FUTURE
                                                       HOUSING TYPES THAT WILL BEST MEET THAT
                                                       NEED.
                                                       Demand is influenced by many factors, including household size, number of
                                                       children, age, etc. In order for supply to reflect demand in Bluffdale, it is
                                                       important to evaluate the demographic characteristics of a community, to
                                                       make projections of the types of housing that will be needed to accommodate
                                                       various household types and incomes, and then to incorporate regulations and
                                                       policies that will allow the market to meet these needs.


                                                       4. CONTINUE TO DEVELOP AND IMPLEMENT THE
                                                       CITY’S MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN
                                                       Senate Bill 34 (SB34) encourages local communities, including Bluffdale,
                                                       to plan for housing for residents of all income levels, and coordinate
                                                       that housing with transportation (Figure 2.10). Communities are required
                                                       to develop a moderate income housing (MIH) plan as part of their general
                                                       plan. Communities that are required to annually report on their MIH plan
                                                       implementation must satisfy these requirements to remain eligible for state
                                                       transportation investments. The goal is to meet the needs of people of various
                                                       income levels who live, work, or desire to live or work in their city. It is in the
Figure 2.10 - Affordable housing development example
                                                       pursuit of allowing people with various incomes to fully participate in all aspects
(jobs.utah.gov)
                                                       of neighborhood and community life.

                                                       State agencies provide guidance in creating a moderate income housing plan.
                                                       For example, the State of Utah and Workforce Services Housing and Community
                                                       Development agency have produced the Moderate-Income Housing Reporting
                                                       Form to help cities achieve the moderate income housing requirements.
                                                       Bluffdale should continue to develop and implement its moderate income
                                                       housing plan. The full 2021 Bluffdale Moderate Income Housing Plan can be
                                                       found in the Appendix of this document.



                                                                                                         2.0 General Plan Toolkit         19
                                                                                  BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                   2.6 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
                                   FRAMEWORK
                                   The Economic Development Framework map in Figure 2.11 shows the locations
                                   of Bluffdale’s recommended development nodes and potential greenfield and
                                   redevelopment sites.
                                   1. Concentrate and promote development at key locations in the City in order
                                      to ensure long-term feasibility of centers.
                                   2. Adopt and maintain an economic development strategic plan with specific
                                      goals, objectives, and implementation.
                                   3. Develop an understanding of target markets, including demographic
                                      projections and household characteristics, to better capitalize on
                                      opportunities.
                                   4. Consider housing choices, amenities, and recreation access when
                                      contemplating future development and growth.


Figure 2.11 - Bluffdale Economic
Development Framework Map




                                                                                2.0 General Plan Toolkit    20
                                                                                                                BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                           2.7 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 			
                                                           BEST PRACTICES
                                                           1. Create an economic development strategic plan and
                                                           a detailed implementation plan for each potential future
                                                           center (Figure 2.12).
                                                           A strategic plan includes assessments of Bluffdale’s strengths, weaknesses,
                                                           and its competitive niche in the local region and then presents strategies
                                                           to help the community become more economically sustainable. The
                                                           strategic plan must be accompanied by an implementation plan.

                                                           An implementation plan includes goals, objectives, action items, and assigned
                                                           responsibilities, all with time frames for completion, as well as provisions for
                                                           financing capital facilities and policies for public participation in high-priority
                                                           projects.
Figure 2.12 - As population continues to grow in the
region, Bluffdale should focus development in key
nodes in the city.                                         2. Understand target markets, including demographic
                                                           projections and household characteristics.
                                                           Reliable demographic data is essential to projecting the future capital
                                                           needs and attributes of a community as accurately as possible in Bluffdale.
                                                           This data should include assessing future revenues and expenditures for ongoing
                                                           services, creating economic development plans and strategies, and assessing
                                                           housing needs.

                                                           3. Identify and promote key economic development sites
                                                           throughout the city.
                                                           Key economic development sites in Bluffdale may include those that are
                                                           most convenient to develop in their current state and/or those that would
                                                           provide the greatest benefit to the city regardless of their current state.

                                                           Convenient sites are those that can be developed with the least amount of
                                                           change and/or investment. Sites with existing infrastructure, appropriate zoning
                                                           designations (Figure 2.13), existing RDA and EDA project areas, and minimal
Figure 2.13 - Economic development can greatly             demolition requirements are sometimes developed more quickly. Key sites
improve quality of life for Bluffdale residents as daily
                                                           should be identified based on their long-term potential and position within the
and weekly needs can be met closer to home, and also
provide additional employment opportunities.               city’s overall economic development framework.

                                                           4. Establish financing and incentive policies to attract
                                                           development types that are most beneficial to the City.
                                                           Bluffdale has a number of tools available to incentivize economic
                                                           development and finance the capital improvements related to economic
                                                           development. Competition for key businesses can be strong so communities
                                                           should carefully consider policies to determine when public assistance should
                                                           be provided to encourage economic development.

                                                                                                             2.0 General Plan Toolkit       21
                                                                                                                                                    BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                             2.8 OPEN SPACE & TRAILS
                                             FRAMEWORK
                                             The Open Space and Trails Framework map in Figure 2.14 shows the locations of
                                             the city’s proposed and existing parks and trails. This framework map represents
                                             an illustration of the overall structure of the city’s parks and trails goals as well as
                                             the following objectives:
                                             1. Improve connectivity between existing and future parks and trails.
                                             2. Follow implementation steps from existing plans pertaining to parks and
                                                trails.
                                             3. Update amenities, and budget priorities for future parks and trails.
                                             4. Promote Bluffdale’s parks and trails to residents and visitors.




Figure 2.14 - Bluffdale Parks + Trails map

  CITY OF BLUFFDALE                                                                                                          South Jordan
                                                                                                                                Canal


  FUTURE TRAILS,
  PARKS, & OPEN SPACE                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                Porter Rockwell Trail
                                                                                                         Sa




                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                          ive
                                                                                                          lt




                                                                                                                                       nR
                                                                                                          La
                                                                                                             ke




                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                   rd
                                                                                  U




                                                                                                                C




                                                                                                                                 Jo
  LEGEND
                                                                                  ta




                                                                                                                 an
                                                                                  h




                                                                                                                    al
                                                                                      La




                                                                                                                    Tr
                                                                                         ke




                                                                                                                      ai
                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                         D
                                                                                          is




  FUTURE TRAILS, CONNECTORS, & PARKS                                                                                                                                         anal
                                                                                                                                                                       rdan C
                                                                                            tr




                                                                                                                                                                East Jo
                                                                                              ic




                                                                                                               Jordan River Trail
                                                                                              tC
                                                                                                   an




             Canal Trails
                                                                                                    al




             Possible Trail Connections                 W
                                                         el
                                                           by
                                                                Ja
             Future Regional /Local                               co
                                                                     b
                                                                         Ca
             Trail Connections                                             na
                                                                              l

             Park Areas

             Key Trail Connection Points
                                                                                                                                                            2
  EXISTING TRAILS, PARKS, & OPEN SPACE

             Parks

             Open Space
                                                                                                                             1                          3
             Trails
                                                                                                                                                   Jo
                                                                                                                                                    rd




  MAJOR WATERWAYS
                                                                                                                                                      an
                                                                                                                                                        Ri
                                                                                                                                                            ve




             Jordan River
                                                                                                                                                               r




                                                                                                                                                  2.0 General Plan Toolkit                              22
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                       2.9 OPEN SPACE & TRAILS BEST
                                                       PRACTICES
                                                       Bluffdale provides a high quality of life through its open space, parks and
                                                       recreational facilities. To maintain this quality of life, the City must continue to
                                                       provide new parks and recreation facilities as the population grows. The City
                                                       should continue to identity ways they may cooperate with other agencies,
                                                       private organizations, property owners, and citizens in developing the parks and
                                                       trails in the City. The best practices below outline a list of practices applicable
                                                       to the parks, trails and open space inventory at large, as well as specific best
                                                       practices under each category. The intention is that these will guide ongoing
                                                       planning and development efforts.

                                                       OVERALL BEST PRACTICES
                                                       While difference in character and function, parks, trails and open spaces
                                                       have common elements that when considered under the larger umbrella of
                                                       public open space, can allow visitors to recognize they are in a place that
                                                       Bluffdale is invested in. This includes elements such as signs and furnishings,
                                                       and overall maintenance (Figure 2.15).
                                                       1. Maintain inventory of assets and their condition. Periodically assess the
                                                          conditions of park, trails, and open space infrastructure and budget for
                                                          necessary upkeep.
Figure 2.15 - Wardle Fields Regional Park Splash Pad
                                                       2. Develop, distribute, and implement design and maintenance standards for
                                                          site furnishings, irrigation equipment, playground equipment, plants, etc.
                                                       3. Develop and implement graphics and signage for interpretive elements that
                                                          are consistent across all city-owned public space, and consistent with the
                                                          City Branding Guide.

                                                       PARKS BEST PRACTICES
                                                       Although Bluffdale has added 14 parks to their inventory over the past
                                                       decade, amounting to approximately 29 acres, many of these parks
                                                       are small pocket/ local parks. As Bluffdale’s population continues to grow,
                                                       providing high-quality, community-driven parks, and identifying opportunities
                                                       for larger community parks should be the City’s priority. Small neighborhood
                                                       parks and pocket parks should be minimized within areas with low-density
                                                       residential, as the large-lot sizes provide basic family recreational needs. The best
                                                       practices listed below serve as guidance for ongoing park development and
                                                       maintenance.
                                                       1. Encourage and support public involvement in park and recreation issues.
                                                       2. As new park space is developed, identify what amenities will provide
                                                          residents with desired recreation opportunities and are in keeping with
                                                          trends.


                                                                                                         2.0 General Plan Toolkit      23
                                                                                                              BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                           3. Develop high-quality parks and recreation facilities that provide equitable
                                                              access to all residents.
                                                           4. Maintain parks and facilities in a manner that keep them safe and attractive
                                                              (Figure 2.16).

                                                           TRAILS BEST PRACTICES
                                                           The trail inventory within Bluffdale is still relatively small, however, the
                                                           potential for regional, community, and local trails lies in existing canals,
Figure 2.16- Parry Farms Baseball Fields
                                                           power corridors, natural drainages and future development within the city.
                                                           The best practices below identify ways to develop these trails in a manner that
                                                           serves the Bluffdale community.
                                                           1. Develop a comprehensive trails plan and prioritize implementation.
                                                           2. Develop shared-use trails and corridors to enable connectivity for all user
                                                              groups. When suitable, identify possible trail connections to the Salt Lake
                                                              County regional trail system within Bluffdale.
                                                           3. Work with canal/ utility companies and private property owners to secure
                                                              trail easements or agreements.
                                                           4. Take advantage of opportunities to construct trails when regional
                                                              infrastructure is constructed.
                                                           5. Connect isolated areas (or similar) such as UDOT projects and new road
                                                              infrastructure.

                                                           OPEN SPACE BEST PRACTICE
                                                           Although open space within Bluffdale is still largely limited to City and
                                                           regional park facilities, efforts should be made to identify which parcels,
                                                           if purchased, could be protected and maintained as such. Considerations
                                                           should be given to planning techniques that facilitate the preservation of open
                                                           space and the rural character of the community. The list below outlines best
                                                           practices for preserving, protecting, and when suitable, developing open space
                                                           within Bluffdale for this purpose (Figure 2.17).
                                                           1. Identify acquisition priorities.
Figure 2.17- Passive open space at Bluffdale’s Main City
Park                                                       2. Where appropriate, develop passive use areas within open space such as
                                                              areas of respite and trails, to provide access for residents.
                                                           3. Pursue low-cost and/or non-purchase options to preserve open space,
                                                              including the use of conservation easements, flexible subdivisions and
                                                              development agreements.
                                                           4. Acquire and protect high-quality open space, accessible to all residents.
                                                           5. Maximize the multiple-use aspects of detention facilities and utility
                                                              easements by preserving and enhancing the natural and ecological value
                                                              of these lands, while facilitating pedestrian access, recreational value, or
                                                              wildlife viewing.

                                                                                                           2.0 General Plan Toolkit       24
                                                                                                     BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                  2.10 RESILIENCY BEST PRACTICES
                                                  1. Build support among community leaders, citizens,
                                                  employers, and other organizations to move toward
                                                  adopting resilient city policies.
                                                  Bluffdale should encourage discussion of Natural, Economic, and Social
                                                  Resiliency practices in city-driven efforts and development discussions
                                                  (Figure 2.18). Discussion of these practices can lead to policy discussion, and
                                                  to the eventual adoption of resilient policies at City Hall and throughout the
                                                  community.

                                                  2. Communities should promote neighborhood appropriate
Figure 2.18 Resiliency within the City includes   housing densities, local food systems, open space
social, natural, and economic policies that can   preservation, multi-modal transportation infrastructure
support a more resilient Blufffdale.              improvements, walkable neighborhoods, reduction in
                                                  waste production, energy conservation, and reduction in
                                                  water use.
                                                  Strategically increasing density in key population centers can increase
                                                  walkability and reduce the need for vehicular travel within centers in
                                                  Bluffdale. Higher population densities can lead to the increased use of mass
                                                  transit systems and boost the local economy with better access to local retail
                                                  stores. Increasing population density also allows more transportation options to
                                                  schools and other services closer to residential areas.

                                                  3. Aim to provide services and improve mobility for all
                                                  groups in the community.
                                                  A socially resilient Bluffdale must be well connected, with good transport
                                                  services and communication linking people to jobs, schools, health and
                                                  other services.




                                                                                                  2.0 General Plan Toolkit      25
                                                                                           BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                         2.11 TRANSPORTATION
                                         In August of 2017 (updated in 2020), Bluffdale adopted the Bluffdale Long-Range
                                         Transportation Plan. For this reason, the 2022 Bluffdale General Plan does not
                                         include a Transportation chapter.

                                         The plan was a collaboration between Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC)
                                         Transportation Land Use Connection (TLC) program, and is intended to guide
                                         the City of Bluffdale to achieve its goal of providing a transportation system
                                         that promotes safe and productive transportation options for the community.
                                         The map below (Figure 2.20) is the plan’s Functional Classification Map, which
                                         illustrates the current and future street grid within the City. The Bluffdale
                                         Long-Range Transportation Plan can be found in detail in the appendix of this
                                         document.
Figure 2.20 - Bluffdale Transportation
Plan’s Functional Classification Map




                                                                                        2.0 General Plan Toolkit     26
                                                                                                             BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                                                   3.0 LAND USE

                                                          INTRODUCTION
                                                          Bluffdale, like other cities in the southwest valley, faces land use challenges
                                                          related to population growth. For Bluffdale, these are primarily housing and
                                                          commercial land use issues. Local and regional housing demand is increasing
                                                          faster than housing supply and the desires for a wide variety of commercial uses
                                                          have not yet come to fruition in Bluffdale.

                                                          With approximately 9% of the land in Bluffdale yet to be developed, much of
                                                          the new growth in the city will be development in the eastern and southern
                                                          portions of the city near the Interstate 15 corridor (Figure 3.1).

Figure 3.1 - New housing growth in Bluffdale is largely
driven by sustained population growth and shifting        3.1 EXISTING CONDITIONS
housing affordability across the region.
                                                          Bluffdale occupies approximately 11.12 square miles, according to 2022 Bluffdale
                                                          GIS data . Residential land uses account for approximately 63% of the land area in
                                                          the City, with 69% of the residential units being single-family dwellings (Figure
                                                          3.2). 6% of Bluffdale’s land area is undevelopable and 9% is vacant land. The
                                                          majority of the vacant land in Bluffdale is located on the east side of the City
                                                          near I-15 and the gravel pit.


                                                          POPULATION GROWTH
Figure 3.2 - Single- family homes ratio compared to       Bluffdale’s 2020 population, according to the 2020 census, is 17,014 people.
other housing types. Source: Southwest valley and Salt    Its anticipated average annual growth rate (AAGR) is 2.15 percent, one of the
Lake County population percentages acquired from
Zions Bank public finance. Bluffdale City data acquired
                                                          highest in the southwest valley region. The City’s population is projected to
from Bluffdale 2020 data.                                 increase by approximately 15,000 residents by the year 2050.

                                                          According to the Wasatch Choice 2050 document, the Wasatch Front population
                                                          is expected to increase by about 34,000 people each year, more than twice that
                                                          of the current population of Bluffdale. This projection will increase the state’s
                                                          population from 2.9 million to 5.4 million. Looking forward, Bluffdale will need
                                                          policies and strategies to manage this future growth in ways that protect and
                                                          enhance both the City’s character and the quality of life for current and future



                                                                                                                       3.0 Land Use       27
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                        residents and businesses. Bluffdale’s zoning code may require adjustments to
                                                        accommodate and account for this population increase.


                                                        CHALLENGES
                                                        1. Areas of inconsistent land use designation contributing to disconnected
                                                           land use patterns.
                                                        2. Lack of efficient east-west connectivity within Bluffdale.
                                                        3. Conflicting opinions/vision over future land use.

                                                        Land use challenges that face Bluffdale are similar challenges to those of cities
                                                        across the Wasatch Front. Given the unprecedented growth that the state is
                                                        seeing, many challenges to future land use are related to population growth
Figure 3.3 - Changes in household size and preferred    (Figure 3.3).
housing types, as well as the cost of development has
driven a demand for a wider ranges of housing types     Approximately 9% of the land within the Bluffdale city boundary is undeveloped.
within Bluffdale.                                       Limited greenfield development opportunities require infill development, which
                                                        at times makes assembling properties for development a difficult task.

                                                        Statewide population growth has led to a lack of housing supply and housing
                                                        choice, drastically driving up home prices and rents. In addition to population
                                                        growth affecting land uses, the shift in the way people shop is also affecting
                                                        future land use. As the retail landscape shifts from traditional brick and mortar
                                                        businesses to more experiential and online sales, so too will the demand for
                                                        traditional retail space.


                                                        1. STABILITY AREAS & OPPORTUNITY AREAS
                                                        Stability Areas are characterized primarily by established residential
                                                        neighborhoods with schools, parks, churches and other public facilities.
                                                        Opportunity Areas identify key areas where future growth is anticipated (Figure
                                                        3.4). These areas provide opportunities for a mix of uses to attract new active
                                                        residents, businesses, and retail. The residential component in some of these
                                                        areas is very important to the success of the businesses.

                                                        In Opportunity Areas, changes in current land uses are likely to occur due to
                                                        market forces, increasing land values and opportunities to optimize land uses to
Figure 3.4 - New housing in opportunity areas of        take advantage of transit and other public investments. Projects in Opportunity
the city can expand feasibility of other uses nearby,
                                                        Areas are anticipated to be at higher levels of concentration than current land
especially retail and grocery operations.
                                                        uses and should be carefully planned and designed to be integrated into the
                                                        fabric of the area and minimize impacts on adjacent and nearby existing land
                                                        uses. Future proposed uses in Opportunity Areas may or may not be consistent
                                                        with current zoning, and the desirability of the proposed use and the need for
                                                        re-zoning should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.




                                                                                                                        3.0 Land Use   28
                                                                                                                 BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                           2. CENTER-FOCUSED GROWTH
                                                           It is important to consider that each center within Bluffdale has unique
                                                           attributes, and should be treated accordingly (Figure 3.5). The Wasatch Front
                                                           Regional Council (WFRC) has divided centers with these different attributes into
                                                           various categories. Bluffdale’s centers fall into what the WFRC refers to as Urban
                                                           Centers and Neighborhood Centers.

                                                           URBAN SCALE CENTERS
                                                           Urban Centers provide localized services to tens of thousands of people within
                                                           a two- to three-mile radius. One- to three-story buildings for employment and
                                                           housing are typical. The number of housing units range from ten to 50 per acre.
                                                           These areas are served by a variety of streets that typically include high-capacity
                                                           transit and bicycle facilities. Potential centers in Bluffdale that could fall into
                                                           category are:
Figure 3.5- Center-focused growth creates a network              » East 14600 South Corridor
of neighborhoods that can define Bluffdale as a
unique community.                                                » Porter Rockwell & Redwood Road
                                                                 » Regional Core (Gravel Pits)

                                                           NEIGHBORHOOD SCALE CENTERS (FIGURE 3.6)
                                                           Neighborhood Centers typically revolve around a business or a civic building like
                                                           a library or school. The typical building scale varies from one- to three-stories tall.
                                                           If housing is located within these centers, housing types could range from small
                                                           apartments, townhouses, to small-lot single unit homes. Neighborhood centers
                                                           are typically located on walkable streets, often with frequent bus service, and
                                                           bicycle facilities. Areas in Bluffdale that have the future potential to fall into this
                                                           category are:
                                                                 » Bangerter Highway & Redwood Road
                                                                 » Wardle Business Park (2700 W & Bangerter)
Figure 3.6 - Concentrating new development in key
nodes and corridors ensures that neighborhood scale              » Redwood Road- 14000 South to 14800 South
centers are easily accessible by Bluffdale residents for
daily needs, as well as employment opportunities.




                                                                                                                           3.0 Land Use      29
                                                                                                BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                             3.2 FUTURE LAND USE
                                             CONSIDERATIONS
                                             For a large portion of Bluffdale, the current land uses, zoning and future land
                                             uses will remain largely unchanged. In the more established areas, the current
                                             land use mix is for the most part desirable, and preservation of these areas’
                                             character and function is the desired future condition. These areas are nearly
                                             fully developed and have little foreseeable change in the types or intensity of
Figure 3.7 - Bluffdale Future Land Use Map
                                             land uses in the future.




                                                                                                          3.0 Land Use    30
                                                                                                       BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                LAND USE DESCRIPTIONS
Land Use Category                  Description
Very Low Density Residential Large-lot residential and agricultural. Development may be clustered pursuant to applicable
(Less than 1 du/acre)        zoning regulations to avoid environmental constraints (e.g., floodplain), protect sensitive
                             features (e.g., critical wildlife habitat), or create shared public or private open space and trails.
                             Religious institutions are also an allowed use.
Residential                        Single-family detached residential. Development may be clustered pursuant to applicable
(1-4 du/acre)                      zoning regulations to avoid environmental constraints (e.g., floodplain), protect sensitive
                                   features (e.g., critical wildlife habitat), or create shared public or private open space. Religious
                                   institutions are also an allowed use.
Multi-Family Residential           Single-family and multi-family detached or attached residential, including single-family
(4 to 20 du/acre)                  detached homes, two-family homes (a.k.a. Duplex), common wall units (two attached
                                   single-family units), townhouses or stacked dwellings, apartments, condominiums, patio
                                   homes, and senior housing. Typically adjacent to mixed use and commercial areas. Religious
                                   institutions are also an allowed use.
Mixed Use                   This category is intended to include a balanced combination of residential and commercial,
(Minimum average density of including opportunities for office, finance, civic, government, entertainment, retail,
5.5 du/acre)                restaurants, and housing. Development is expected to include a minimum percentage or
                            square footage of commercial development which includes timing of construction to be
                            favorably considered. Approved housing components within Mixed Use should include a
                            variety of product types and price points, including single-family dwellings, townhomes,
                            apartments and condominiums, and live/work units. Adequate parking provision is
                            paramount.
Commercial                         Activity centers that include a wide range of community and regional retail, office,
                                   entertainment, public facilities and personal services, and other commercial uses, which
                                   may be supported by a limited amount of residential and entertainment uses. Low intensity
                                   neighborhood support uses, such as small-scale and convenience retail, professional office,
                                   personal service, child care, educational, business service, medical offices, assisted living, and
                                   other “nine-to-five” uses that are compatible with adjacent residential use. Residential units
                                   may be incorporated into a commercial development as accessory uses, as appropriate.

Regional Core                      High intensity development center which may include employment campuses including
                                   offices, research and development facilities, corporate headquarters, and other professional
                                   businesses as primary uses. A combination of residential and commercial is anticipated,
                                   being weighted toward commercial development intensity, including opportunities for
                                   office, finance, civic, government, entertainment, retail, restaurants, convenience retail,
                                   recreation facilities, and transit and commercial supportive housing. Where allowed within
                                   the Regional Core, housing should include higher densities with a variety of product
                                   types and price points, and should limit the land area devoted to lower density traditional
                                   single-family dwellings. Higher density townhomes, apartments, and condominiums are
                                   anticipated where residential uses are approved. Uses should be transit supportive and
                                   include parking structures as necessary to support high-intensity commercial and residential
                                   uses.
Heavy Commercial                   Support of employment activities, including light manufacturing, research and development,
                                   incubator businesses, storage, wholesale trade and distribution, contractors, warehousing,
                                   production, and bulk retail businesses that are largely devoid of nuisance factors and
                                   hazards.


Civic Institutional                Public, educational, and service uses, such as schools, libraries, police and fire stations, public
                                   works, and government facilities. Should be located in a way to support and complement
                                   residential neighborhoods.
Governmental                       Veterans cemetery properties and Camp Williams. Camp Williams is a government owned
                                   and maintained military base currently operated by the Utah Army National Guard. The base
                                   is used for active military training including combat, emergency response, and other military
                                   operations.

                                                                                                                 3.0 Land Use      31
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         Other areas throughout the City, provide the greatest opportunity for change
                                                         and transition, to a more desirable mix of uses and concentrations in key nodes
                                                         (Figure 3.8).

                                                         Across Bluffdale, future development should focus new retail at key locations
                                                         and reevaluate the encouragement of retail uses at other sites. New retail should
                                                         be condensed into specific sites rather than spread out throughout the City.
                                                         Most centers should support residential uses of complementary concentration
                                                         and type, to help increase the supply of housing and support commercial uses
                                                         in centers. And, as a bonus, including housing supply near commercial uses
                                                         reduces traffic when compared to completely separating commercial from
                                                         housing.
Figure 3.8 With excellent access to regional
transportation routes, Bluffdale will continue to see
                                                         Land use and zoning are two tools used for guiding development patterns. Land
demand for light industrial and commercial uses as the
region continues to grow.                                use describes the activities that may take place on any given property, including
                                                         relevant structures. Zoning is a regulatory framework that specifies which land
                                                         uses, and use intensities, are permitted on any given property. Zoning also
                                                         establishes development standards to control the placement, size, and other
                                                         building features/improvements. Zoning designations entitle land owners to
                                                         occupy and develop land according to the zoning requirements. Ideally, existing
                                                         land uses coincide with current zoning regulations, but this is not always the
                                                         case.

                                                         The Bluffdale Zoning Map (Figure 3.9) identifies the City’s current zoning
                                                         designations, and the Future Land Use Map shows the locations of potential
                                                         land uses. There are fewer land use categories than zoning designations because
                                                         land use categories are more general and individual zoning designations usually
                                                         include more than one land use category.
Figure 3.9 - Bluffdale Zoning Map, 2022.

Please refer to the city’s online zoning map for the
current zoning designations for any properties shown
here.

The future land use map should influence any
proposed zoning changes made under the city’s
guidance.




                                                                                                                      3.0 Land Use        32
                                                                                                           BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                    URBAN SCALE CENTERS
                                                    Urban Centers provide localized services to tens of thousands of people within a
                                                    two- to three-mile radius, and may be more of a regional draw than a local draw.
                                                    Buildings for employment and housing are typical. The number of housing units
                                                    range from ten to 50 per acre. These areas are served by a variety of streets that
                                                    typically include high-capacity transit and bicycle facilities.

                                                    EAST 14600 SOUTH CORRIDOR (FIGURE 3.10)
                                                    It would benefit the City to pursue development of a mix of uses around the
                                                    interchange of I-15 and 14600 South (east of trestle bridge) in addition to the
                                                    existing industrial flex uses in the area. Given the proximity to I-15 and future
                                                    development of The Point, consideration should be given to incentivize the
                                                    development of job creating businesses, as well as a hotel in the area, prior to
Figure 3.10 - East 14600 South Corridor Node        other hotel uses filling in from the prison relocation and office expansion. Once
                                                    this center and the area around it develops with a mix of uses, more uses, such
                                                    as office and retail, will follow. Sites closest to I-15 have the greatest potential for
                                                    higher intensity uses.

                                                    PORTER ROCKWELL & REDWOOD ROAD (FIGURE 3.11)
                                                    The area around Porter Rockwell Boulevard and Redwood Road is seeing an
                                                    increase in traffic. This area, as growth and development occurs, will service a
                                                    significant amount of traffic, especially when Porter Rockwell Boulevard opens
                                                    in 2022. Future demand will be strong for professional offices, flex office/
                                                    warehouse, residential, and retail options. Hotel uses should also be considered
                                                    for this center in the future, give its proximity to Camp Williams, and location
Figure 3.11 - Porter Rockwell & Redwood Road Node
                                                    along Redwood Road and Porter Rockwell Boulevard.

                                                    REGIONAL CORE (FIGURE 3.12)
                                                    Designated primarily as ‘Business Park’ in the previous iteration of the General
                                                    Plan, the Regional Core center is the largest parcel of undeveloped land in the
                                                    City. While strong future potential exists, development of the entire site is not
                                                    likely for many years due to current mining operations and existing mining rights
                                                    in this area. The potential for a future FrontRunner stop may exist near here- if
                                                    densities are transit supportive- which also presents a unique opportunity for
                                                    the center to become a regional draw. Future development should include a
                                                    broad mix of uses and densities, with a high level of internal connectivity as well
                                                    as connectivity to the surrounding areas and the region as a whole, with the
                                                    planned I-15 interchange.

                                                    At the time this document was finalized, the future development being
                                                    proposed on this site is, Point Crossing. Current concepts and vision for this
                                                    reclamation project include residential and commercial uses as well as transit
                                                    access.
Figure 3.12 - Regional Core Node



                                                                                                                      3.0 Land Use      33
                                                                                                       BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                 NEIGHBORHOOD SCALE CENTERS
                                                 Neighborhood Centers typically revolve around a business or a civic building like
                                                 a library or school. The typical building scale varies from one- to three-stories tall.
                                                 If housing is located within these centers, housing types could range from small
                                                 apartments, and townhouses, to small-lot single unit homes. Neighborhood
                                                 centers are typically located on walkable streets, often with frequent bus service
                                                 and bicycle facilities.


Figure 3.13 - Bangerter Highway & Redwood Road
                                                 BANGERTER HIGHWAY & REDWOOD ROAD (FIGURE 3.13)
Node
                                                 Bluffdale’s northern boundary is Bangerter Highway. The intersection where
                                                 Bangerter Highway exits at Redwood Road is a gateway to Bluffdale and the
                                                 first impression when traveling south on Redwood Road or exiting Bangerter
                                                 Highway. These factors make it an ideal candidate for retail and office
                                                 development in the future. Low to medium density development that considers
                                                 surrounding uses and densities is ideal here.

                                                 WARDLE BUSINESS PARK (FIGURE 3.14)
                                                 The neighborhood center at Bangerter Highway and 2700 West, is just north
                                                 of Wardle Fields Park and just south of Bangerter Highway. This center should
Figure 3.14- Wardle Business Park Node           capitalize on these great assets and its location and proximity to them. Retail
                                                 development options should be considered at the corner intersection. Flex office
                                                 could also be pursued in this center. Regardless of type of development, strict
                                                 design guidelines should be implemented in order to create a unique sense of
                                                 place as well as maintain transitions between single-family residential and non-
                                                 residential uses. The UDOT study currently underway to analyze the potential for
                                                 a grade-separated interchange at this intersection, and subsequent construction,
                                                 will also enhance economic development in this area.

                                                 REDWOOD ROAD - 14000 SOUTH - 14800 SOUTH
                                                 The Redwood Road corridor (Figure 3.15) is an important component to the
                                                 future success of Bluffdale. In the near future, small-scale retail and office are
                                                 becoming more viable along the corridor. New residential uses are also viable
                                                 along Redwood Road, as long as they do not have frontage along the road.
                                                 Larger scale commercial uses will be more viable along this corridor as Porter
                                                 Rockwell Boulevard is completed. Due to the smaller scale of parcels in this area,
                                                 assemblage for larger developments will be difficult.




Figure 3.15 - Redwood Road Node



                                                                                                                 3.0 Land Use      34
                                                                                                             BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                         3.3 POLICIES + IMPLEMENTATION
                                                         GOAL 1: Support a variety and an increased concentration
                                                         of uses in strategic locations within the City, to improve
                                                         economic activity.

                                                         Policies
                                                         1. Focus development in key centers within Bluffdale (Figure 3.16).
                                                         2. Physically integrate residential uses with office and retail uses in a manner
                                                            that provides opportunities for pedestrian-oriented development in growth
                                                            centers.

                                                         Implementation Strategies
                                                         1. Adopt land use ordinances and development agreements that ensure
Figure 3.16 - New development in key centers will make
                                                            centers are designed to be compact, safe, attractive, and accessible to all
Bluffdale more attractive to retail and food based
businesses, and provide residents more options close        travel modes and user abilities.
to home.
                                                         2. Utilize incentives and other financial tools to highlight and prioritize the
                                                            importance of areas targeted for redevelopment as unique centers.

                                                         GOAL 2: Encourage land uses that support economic
                                                         development while observing the existing character of the
                                                         City and its neighborhoods.

                                                         Policy
                                                         1. Create a balance between employment and housing.

                                                         Implementation Strategy
                                                         1. Integrate housing, employment, and supporting infrastructure in mixed-use
                                                            centers at strategic locations.
                                                         2. Maintain consistent low density zoning designations in existing Very Low
                                                            and Low-density zoned neighborhoods.

                                                         Additional Strategies
Figure 3.17 - New housing paired with new commercial
                                                         1. Encourage or require new development and redevelopment projects to
development can create better access to employment
for new and existing residents of Bluffdale.                provide significant neighborhood/community amenities where appropriate.
                                                            Example amenities include local and regional trail connections, public plazas
                                                            and gathering spaces, pedestrian access to public and commercial activity
                                                            centers, and development of public open spaces.
                                                         2. Actively promote diverse residential uses and supportive services to provide
                                                            for the needs of each community in centers (Figure 3.17).
                                                         3. Use land use ordinances and development agreements to ensure that
                                                            centers are designed to be compact, safe, attractive, and accessible places,
                                                            where the street environment makes access safe and attractive for people of
                                                            all ages and abilities.

                                                                                                                       3.0 Land Use        35
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                                                     4.0 HOUSING

                                                        INTRODUCTION
                                                        Nearly two thirds (69%) of Bluffdale’s existing housing units are single-family
                                                        homes (Figure 4.1), according to data acquired from Bluffdale building permits.
                                                        The construction of townhomes and multi-family housing has increased over
                                                        the last ten years within the City (Figure 4.2). Bluffdale’s median household size,
                                                        median home value, and median income are higher when compared to those
                                                        in the southwest valley and the rest of Salt Lake County, indicating strong future
                                                        demand for housing in the City.

                                                        When likened to Salt Lake County, Bluffdale households spend more of their
                                                        income on the combination of housing and transportation costs, leaving a lower
                                                        percentage of remaining income for other essential household expenses.
Figure 4.1 - Typical single-family neighborhood along
2700 West in Bluffdale
                                                        4.1 EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                                        HOUSING STOCK
                                                        The majority of single-family housing stock in Bluffdale has been built in the last
                                                        twenty years on large lots on the west side of the City. The existing multi-family
                                                        housing units that have been built in the last ten years, have been predominately
                                                        on the east side of Bluffdale, and have consisted of small-lot single-family (Figure
                                                        4.2), townhome, and medium-density apartment developments.

                                                        Current zoning in Bluffdale permits accessory dwelling units (ADUs) as an
                                                        approved land use. Accessory dwelling units are currently defined as a secondary
                                                        unit within an owner occupied single–family home. Permitting and promoting
                                                        ADU’s creates the opportunity to provide housing with a greater diversity of
                                                        residential unit types and costs.

                                                        Areas with diverse housing options provide residents with more choices and are
Figure 4.2 - New housing development in Bluffdale.      more stable. These areas include a broad range of housing unit types, rental and
                                                        ownership options, and a variety of price levels.




                                                                                                                       4.0 Housing     36
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         HOUSEHOLD SIZE (FIGURE 4.3)
                                                         The median household size in the state of Utah is 3.09 people. The Salt Lake
                                                         County median household size is 2.95 people and is estimated to increase
                                                         to 3.26 people by 2025. Median household size in Bluffdale is reported to be
                                                         an average of 3.72. The southwest valley average has a slightly lower average
                                                         household size at 3.6.

                                                         In the last 10 years, average household size in Bluffdale has increased by 9.5%.
Figure 4.3 - Median household size comparison. Source:
                                                         The average household size in both Salt Lake County and in the State of Utah has
2020: ACS 5-Year Estimate
                                                         decreased. This data reflects Bluffdale’s population as both younger and having
                                                         larger families than the surrounding areas. Future regional trends will mostly
                                                         show a continued decline in median household size in developed and aging
                                                         areas and increases in median household size in new growth areas.


                                                         HOME VALUES (FIGURE 4.4)
                                                         Housing prices in Bluffdale have increased notably over the past several years,
                                                         commensurate with the same trend along the greater Wasatch Front. Values for
                                                         single–family units, multi–family units, and vacant land have all increased.

                                                         The median home value of owner-occupied units in Bluffdale was $482,100
                                                         in 2020. Bluffdale’s median home value is higher than that of Salt Lake County
                                                         ($336,100) and the southwest valley ($335,000). This discrepancy is likely due to
Figure 4.4 - Median owner-occupied home value in         the large home and lot sizes in Bluffdale compared to other cities. Median prices
Bluffdale. Source: 2020 American Community Survey
                                                         have risen considerably into 2022, with home prices increasing far more rapidly
5-year Estimate
                                                         than median incomes across the region.


                                                         INCOME SPENT ON HOUSING AND
                                                         TRANSPORTATION
                                                         Bluffdale households spend on average 37% of their monthly income on
                                                         housing, slightly above the Salt Lake County average of 32%. Most nearby cities
                                                         show percentages similar to Bluffdale’s. Other communities in the southwest
                                                         valleys, average 27% (Figure 4.5).

                                                         Bluffdale residents spend 16% of their income on transportation, which is similar
                                                         to 18% for the southwest valley, but lower than Salt Lake County, which spends
                                                         an average of 20% on transportation.

                                                         Decisions about new development should consider housing and transportation
                                                         costs. Proximity to transportation options and a variety housing types could help
Figure 4.5 - Income spent on Housing and
Transportation                                           Bluffdale keep housing and transportation costs manageable, making it more
                                                         competitive with other local municipalities for attracting and maintaining its
                                                         residential population.




                                                                                                                      4.0 Housing        37
                                                                                                      BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                 AFFORDABILITY INDEX
                                                 The Affordability Index compares the relationship between median household
                                                 incomes and median property values. Higher index ratios indicate a home that
                                                 is less Affordable to the median income household. Ratios decline as household
                                                 incomes increase (assuming constant property values), or increase as property
                                                 values outpace income growth.
Figure 4.6 - Affordability Index Graphic
                                                 Bluffdale’s affordability index value is 4.41, which is fairly close to the Salt Lake
                                                 County index value of 4.62 (Figure 4.6). This is due to the higher home prices and
                                                 higher household income than many other cities in the southwest valley and
                                                 Salt Lake County. The affordability index throughout the southwest valley is 3.73.
                                                 On a regional level, the southwest valley is still more affordable than Salt Lake
                                                 County, and by this metric the Wasatch Front is still more affordable than major
                                                 cities such as Portland, Denver, Las Vegas, Phoenix, and others.


                                                 CHALLENGES
                                                 PRESSURE TO EXPAND LOCAL HOUSING SUPPLY
                                                 Bluffdale’s housing challenges are shared by municipalities all along the Wasatch
                                                 Front. Figure 4.7 shows Utah Population growth. This growth is outpacing
                                                 housing supply and thus, housing costs are increasing and land available for new
                                                 greenfield developments is decreasing. The state-wide housing shortage puts
                                                 pressure on all local governments, including Bluffdale, to increase its supply.

                                                 DEMAND FOR VARYING HOUSING TYPES VERSUS LOCAL
Figure 4.7- Utah population growth (ksltv.com)
                                                 RESISTANCE TO GROWTH
                                                 Communities with insufficient diversity of housing types struggle to meet the
                                                 housing needs of current and future residents. This results in inefficient land use
                                                 and increased travel distances, transportation expenses, and higher costs for
                                                 municipal services and utility providers.

                                                 Bluffdale’s housing stock is predominantly single-family homes; however, recent
                                                 and planned housing developments have increased housing type diversity.
                                                 According to data from The Bureau of Economic and Business Research (BEBR),
                                                 Bluffdale has permitted more townhome-type and multi-family development in
                                                 the last decade than ever before. This data shows that Bluffdale is already making
                                                 progress toward an increased variety of housing types.

                                                 TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS KEEPING PACE WITH
                                                 HOUSING GROWTH
                                                 In order for transit departments, such as the Utah Transit Authority (UTA) and
                                                 the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT ), to invest in new transit options
                                                 within a city, a city needs to show that it has the future growth and interest to
                                                 support transit expansion. Bluffdale’s land uses consist mostly of larger lot single-


                                                                                                                 4.0 Housing     38
                                                                                                              BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                          family homes and low to medium-density townhomes. The existing future land
                                                          use map shows lower density land uses around potential transit hubs. Bluffdale’s
                                                          Future Land Use map that has been adopted as part of this general plan, shows
                                                          more favorable and transit supportive land use densities around future potential
                                                          transit hubs within the City.



                                                          4.2 FUTURE HOUSING
                                                          CONSIDERATIONS
                                                          The list of housing types described here is not exhaustive and some of the
                                                          terminology varies across different regions.

                                                          1. VERY LOW-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                          Bluffdale’s existing residential uses generally west of Redwood Road are
                                                          predominantly very low-density housing types. These are single-family homes on
                                                          a one-acre lot or larger. These very low-density residential neighborhoods shall
                                                          continue as existing housing or through the construction of additional very low-
                                                          density housing types.

                                                          VERY LOW-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                                                                » Single-Family Homes (Figure 4.8) contain one dwelling unit per
Figure 4.8 - Large lot single- family home (callithome.           building, one dwelling unit per lot, on lots that are at least one-acre.
com)
                                                                » Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) are separate, self-contained dwelling
                                                                  units located on the same lot as a primary residence, typically a single-
                                                                  family home. ADU’s are attached to the primary dwelling unit. Detached
                                                                  ADU’s are not currently allowed by city code.

                                                          2. LOW-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                          Bluffdale’s existing residential uses between Redwood Road and the railway
                                                          are predominantly low-density housing types. These are typically single-family
                                                          homes and form the City’s traditional residential neighborhoods.

                                                          Established neighborhoods shall continue to provide low-density housing
                                                          types in the form of existing housing or through the construction of additional
                                                          low-density housing types. Expanding housing options with a wider variety
                                                          of housing types and prices will help meet the needs of residents across the
                                                          housing life cycle while maintaining the low-density of Bluffdale’s established
Figure 4.9- Single-family home in Bluffdale               neighborhoods.

                                                          LOW-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                                                                » Single-Family Homes contain one dwelling unit per building and,
                                                                  typically, one dwelling unit per lot.




                                                                                                                         4.0 Housing         39
                                                                                                    BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                3. MEDIUM-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                Medium-density housing types are a critical component of housing life cycle
                                                and missing middle housing needs. These types are recommended in specific
                                                locations in Bluffdale, typically in places where land uses are transitioning to
                                                more increased diversity and densities. Some of these locations have been
                                                identified as neighborhood or city centers and some are located adjacent to
                                                high-density housing areas.
Figure 4.10 - Cottage cluster example
                                                Some of the medium-density housing types may be used as mixed-use
                                                buildings. These buildings typically have the non-residential uses located on the
                                                ground floor. Mixed-use buildings can help transition between a low-density
                                                residential neighborhood and the commercial uses in a neighborhood center or
                                                city center.

                                                MEDIUM-DENSITY CENTERS
                                                      » Porter Rockwell & Redwood Road
                                                      » Redwood Road- 14000 South to 148000 South
Figure 4.10 - Woodside Townhomes in Bluffdale

                                                MEDIUM-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                                                      » Townhomes and Rowhouses shown in Figures 4.10 and 4.11, are small
                                                        to medium sized structures, typically with four or more attached single-
                                                        family homes placed side by side, in a row.
                                                      » Stacked Flats share some characteristics with both apartments and
                                                        townhomes. Each unit is two-stories and one unit is stacked on top of
                                                        the other, resulting in a four-story building. Both units have doors on
                                                        the street, usually in a small alcove, making it look like one house. The
                                                        garages are typically in the back, on an alley.

Figure 4.11 - Townhomes example                       » Garden Apartments are housing complexes with multiple buildings
                                                        that are usually two or three stories tall. The complex has a garden-like
                                                        setting: low-rise buildings surrounded by lawns, trees, shrubbery, and
                                                        gardens.
                                                      » Mixed-Use Developments can be a horizontal or vertical mix of uses,
                                                        and contain a mix of both residential commercial units.
                                                      » Cottage Clusters shown in Figure 4.10 are a collection of small-scale
                                                        single-family homes that are oriented to an open space held in common
                                                        by the unit owners.
                                                      » Duplexes and Triplexes are small-sized structures that consist of two or
                                                        three side-by-side dwelling units, typically with individual entries along
                                                        the front. Similar in scale and look to a single-unit home.




                                                                                                               4.0 Housing     40
                                                                                                             BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         4. HIGH-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                         High-density housing is an important part of the housing life cycle. Higher
                                                         density housing types are generally only recommended on the east and south
                                                         sides of the City, in the ‘growth areas’ defined in the Land Use chapter.

                                                         High-density housing types can work well as mixed-use buildings. These
                                                         buildings make sense in urban centers where businesses, customers, and
                                                         residents benefit from increased foot traffic, walkable destinations, and close
                                                         proximity, as well as the general increase in activity both inside and outside of
                                                         regular business hours. Transit supportive housing density is a vital element to
                                                         attracting FrontRunner service, and other transit modes, in Bluffdale in the future,
Figure 4.12 - Rockpoint Apartments in Bluffdale
                                                         particularly in the Gravel Pit area where the highest development potential lies.
                                                         This is because transit service providers require cities to allow higher densities in
                                                         order to make service more viable.

                                                         HIGH-DENSITY CENTERS
                                                               » East 14600 South Corridor
                                                               » Regional Core (Gravel Pits)

                                                         HIGH-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                     Residential
                     Commercial
                                                               » Apartment Buildings (Figure 4.12) are typically three to five stories tall
                                                                 and may contain ground floor commercial units. The building contains
                                                                 several units that are accessed by one primary entrance, usually with a
                                                                 lobby and elevator.
                                                               » Mixed-Use Buildings can be two to six stories tall and contain
                                                                 commercial units. The building has units that are accessed by one
                                                                 entrance. Parking is often structured.
                              Vertically Mixed Uses
                              Typical Block
Figure 4.13- Vertically mixed uses (placemakers.com)
                                                         5. HOUSING IN MIXED-USE CORRIDORS AND
                                                         CENTERS
                     Residential
                                                         Locating residential uses along mixed-use corridors provides convenient access
                     Commercial
                                                         to major roads. The experience of living, working, and shopping in and around a
                                                         corridor is different than that in centers however, corridors add to the spatial and
                                                         functional diversity of the City.

                                                         Medium-density housing types can work well in a mixed-use corridor. Low-
                                                         density housing types, with their many driveways and frequent curb cuts, do not
                                                         work well along a major corridor. High-density housing types might be desirable
                             Horizontally Mixed Uses     in these corridors but make more sense in one of the city centers, at least in the
                             Typical Block
                                                         near- and mid-term. Mixed-uses can be represented vertically or horizontally
Figure 4.14- Horizontally mixed uses (placemakers.com)
                                                         along corridors, as exemplified in Figures 4.13 and 4.14.




                                                                                                                        4.0 Housing      41
                                                                                                                      BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         6. HOUSING DENSITY AND WATER
                                                         CONSERVATION
                                                        Higher-density development, may be a better way to protect water resources. A
                                                        recent study by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (Figure 4.15) intends
                                                        to help guide communities through this debate to better understand the
                                                        impacts of high- and low-density development on water resources.

                                                        The EPA examined stormwater runoff from different development densities
                                                        to determine the comparative difference between scenarios. This analysis
                                                        demonstrated:
                                                               » Higher-density scenarios generate less stormwater runoff per house
                                                                 at all scales— one acre, lot, and watershed—and time series build-out
                                                                 examples;
                                                               » For the same amount of development, higher-density development
                                                                 produces less runoff and less impervious cover than low-density
                                                                 development; and
                                                               » For a given amount of growth, lower-density development impacts
                                                                 more of the watershed.
Figure 4.15 - Protecting Water Resources with Higher-
Density Development study, performed by Office of       Taken together, these findings indicate that low-density development may not
Sustainable Communities Smart Growth Program.
                                                        always be the preferred strategy for protecting water resources. Higher densities
                                                        may better protect water quality—especially at the lot and watershed levels. To
                                                        accommodate the same number of houses, denser developments consume less
                                                        land than lower density developments. Consuming less land means creating less
                                                        impervious cover in the watershed. EPA believes that increasing development
                                                        densities is one strategy communities can use to minimize regional water quality
                                                        impacts. To fully protect water resources, communities need to employ a wide
                                                        range of land use strategies, based on local factors, including building a range of
                                                        development densities, incorporating adequate open space, preserving critical
                                                        ecological and buffer areas, and minimizing land disturbance (Figure 4.15).1




                                                        1 Source: Protecting Water Resources With Higher-Density Development, Office of Sustainable Communi-
                                                        ties Smart Growth Program, United States Environmental Protection Agency


                                                                                                                                   4.0 Housing        42
                                                                                                  BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                 4.3 POLICIES + IMPLEMENTATION
                                                 GOAL 1: Retain character of established neighborhoods

                                                 Policies
                                                 1. Consider specific location and surrounding neighborhood when reviewing
                                                    and evaluating new or infill development.

                                                 Implementation Strategies
Figure 4.16- Residential infill example
                                                 1. Amend zoning ordinance in single-family zones to ensure context sensitivity
                                                    of location and density of infill (Figure 4.16) and new development.

                                                 GOAL 2: Provide a variety of high-quality housing choices
                                                 that incorporates a range of types, tenancies, & densities
                                                 (Figure 4.17).
                                                 Policy
                                                 1. Support alternative housing types in the City, and coordinate and align
                                                    Housing and Land Use chapters within the General Plan.

                                                 Implementation Strategy
Figure 4.17 - ‘Gentle density’ housing example   1. Develop clear guidance of potential future locations for housing density.

                                                 GOAL 3: Ensure new housing stock addresses all income
                                                 levels and life stages.

                                                 Policy
                                                 1. Encourage flexible housing guidelines to respond to evolving market
                                                    conditions.

                                                 Implementation Strategy
                                                 2. Adopt land use regulations that develop as the housing market changes for
                                                    different populations of residents.




                                                                                                             4.0 Housing        43
                                                   BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




4.4 STATE HOUSING PLAN
REQUIREMENTS
Bluffdale has already begun to address the 2019 State of Utah requirement to
provide a moderate income housing plan within five years. This is a challenge
faced by all municipalities along the Wasatch Front as they collectively address
continuous population growth. Further discussion on Moderate Income Housing
can be found in the General Plan Toolkit chapter as well as the appendix of this
document.

 Recommendations
1. Better coordinate land use and transportation planning.
2. Develop community support for housing policy changes.
3. Support increased variety of housing options.
4. Update zoning ordinance in key areas to support mixed-use developments
   and reduce impact and permit fees.




                                                             4.0 Housing    44
                                                                                                           BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




   5.0 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

                                                      INTRODUCTION
                                                      Bluffdale continues to grow quickly, continuing the trends of recent years. With
                                                      a population median age of 29.5, Bluffdale represents one of the lowest median
                                                      ages in the State. A low median age can be a strong indicator for future growth,
                                                      growing median incomes, strong demand for housing options, and strong retail
                                                      buying power.

                                                      A key consideration for Bluffdale City is to understand retail and other
                                                      commercial patterns and potential for commercial opportunities (Figure 5.1).
                                                      Due to Bluffdale’s emerging population and current land use make-up, large-
                                                      scale commercial opportunities (e.g. grocery stores, retailers) within the City have
Figure 5.1 - New commercial flex space along Porter
Rockwell Boulevard and 14600 South in Bluffdale       been a challenge- expectations are ahead of favorable community attributes.

                                                      Bluffdale residents spend a larger percentage of their income on housing and
                                                      transportation when compared to the average resident of Salt Lake County. Job
                                                      density in Bluffdale is higher than in other local municipalities but taxable sales
                                                      per capita is moderate. While Bluffdale and its residents desire retail and grocery
                                                      uses, retail spending is still shifting online, and per capita use of physical retail
                                                      space across the country is decreasing.



                                                      5.1 EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                                      Bluffdale is located between Bangerter Highway and I-15- two major
                                                      transportation routes in Salt Lake and Utah Counties. Redwood Road and the
                                                      Mountain View corridor also connect the two counties and their residents.
                                                      Because of Bluffdale’s central location, it is an attractive area for workers from the
                                                      two most populous counties in Utah.

                                                      Bluffdale has a growing population that is forecast by the State to increase at
                                                      near 2.14% per year over the next thirty years (Figure 5.2). The City is anticipated
                                                      to reach a population in excess of 32,000 by 2050, a close to 46% increase from
Figure 5.2 - Projected Population Growth Rates,
2020-2050 Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute
                                                      current indications. The City is unique in that it has a very low median age – 29.5,
and US Census                                         according to the 2020 American Community Survey and the State of Utah. The



                                                                                                      5.0 Economic Development          45
                                                                                                              BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         countywide median age is 33, suggesting that Bluffdale has a unique position
                                                         of young families in a rapidly growing area. Despite the youthful makeup of the
                                                         city, the median household income is in excess of $113,000, nearly 31% greater
                                                         than the countywide median of roughly $77,120.

                                                         The combination of a growing populace, low median ages, and high incomes
                                                         presents an attractive future climate for potential retailers and employers.
                                                         Consequently, it is important for Bluffdale to properly plan its key corridors and
                                                         development sites to maximize growth opportunities.

                                                         Most recently, the Bluffdale City Council adopted the 2022 Bluffdale Economic
Figure 5.3 - Point of the Mountain Area Estimated
                                                         Development Strategic Plan. The purpose of the strategic plan includes the
Population Change Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy
Institute                                                identification and definition of specific economic development goals, objectives,
                                                         and strategies for the City, as well as the use information and data to strategically
                                                         prioritize economic development activity, from both a City perspective and a
                                                         citizen perspective. The entire 2022 Bluffdale Economic Development Strategic
                                                         Plan can be found in the appendix of this document.


                                                         1. DEMOGRAPHICS
                                                         POPULATION AND GROWTH
                                                         The rapid population growth across the Salt Lake Valley has been capturing
                                                         headlines for a decade. Bluffdale is also growing quickly, and future growth is
                                                         estimated to remain high compared to Salt Lake County. Undeveloped land is
Figure 5.4 - Acres Needed per Year to Meet Projected
Growth from 2020-2060. Source: Population Estimates
                                                         becoming scarce in Salt Lake County.
from Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute
                                                         The development of The Point will also bring extra growth to the area along
                                                         with new opportunities for the City. Figure 5.3 highlights the future population
                                                         growth along the Point of the Mountain and growth rates compared to
                                                         surrounding cities. In Bluffdale, growth is expected to occur in the southern and
                                                         eastern area of the City, especially along I-15. Most of the undeveloped land in
                                                         the City is in these areas of expected growth, but they are currently zoned for
                                                         the gravel pit to the north and agriculture to the south.

                                                         Using various city’s projected growth over the next 40 years, Figure 5.4 shows
                                                         how many acres would need to be developed depending on the scale at which
                                                         development occurs. For example, if Bluffdale continues to develop at 3 units
                                                         per acre, it will need 40 acres per year to do so. In contrast, if Bluffdale were to
                                                         develop at 30 units per acre, it would only require 4 acres to meet demand.
Figure 5.5 - Bluffdale College Attainment, Source: ACS
2020 5-Year Estimate                                     EDUCATION
                                                         49.9% of residents in Bluffdale do not have a college degree however, 69.8%
                                                         of the City’s population 25 and over have at least some college education.
                                                         This is higher than the State of Utah, where almost 70% of the population has
                                                         attended some college. Compared to Bluffdale, the State has a larger percentage
                                                         of citizens who hold advanced degrees. Figure 5.5 shows how educational
                                                         attainment is broken up in Bluffdale.
                                                                                                         5.0 Economic Development         46
                                                                                                                           BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                             2. COMMERCIAL TRENDS
                                                             EMPLOYMENT
                                                             The top four industries by number of employees in Bluffdale are, in order;
                                                             educational services, and health care and social assistance; professional,
                                                             scientific, and management and administrative and waste management services;
                                                             retail trade; and construction.
Figure 5.6 - Jobs Within One Square Mile of Bluffdale
boundary, Source: US Census On-The-Map Tool
                                                             Despite smaller concentrations of employees in information, finance, and
                                                             wholesale trade industries in the City as a whole, these industries are more
                                                             highly concentrated in Bluffdale than they are in the State.

                                                             Bluffdale and other communities in the southwest areas of the County lag in jobs
                                                             available in a square mile and jobs available within a 30-minute drive. Figures 5.6
                                                             and 5.7 highlight both indicators and show Bluffdale’s job access compared to
                                                             other cities in the area.

                                                             RETAIL
                                                             Retail sales distribution from the State to municipalities is based on point-of-
                                                             sale and population. When compared to other states, Utah’s system for sales tax
                                                             distribution is somewhat unique and can be an important factor in planning
                                                             decisions so as to maximize fiscal benefits to a City.

                                                             The global pandemic has accelerated a trend of increasing online sales. In
                                                             Bluffdale, 25% of the approved budget comes from sales tax distributions. There
                                                             is a smaller commercial presence in Bluffdale than in other cities in Salt Lake
                                                             County, so the City is reliant on the State’s distribution based on population, and
                                                             online collection, rather than brick and mortar point of sale.

                                                             Most residents of Bluffdale travel to other communities for better shopping and
Figure 5.7 - Jobs Accessible in 30-Minute Transit Ride per
Capita, Source: ACS 2019 Five Year Estimates
                                                             dining options. This, as Figure 5.8 and Figure 5.9 show, is not uncommon for
                                                             southwest Salt Lake County. Lower sales per capita across the area suggest that
                                                             Bluffdale residents travel further than neighboring communities for a greater
                                                             selection of retail.




Figure 5.8 - Retail Sales per Capita, Source: Utah State                           Figure 5.9 - Retail Sales per Capita, Source: Utah State
Tax Commission and US Census                                                       Tax Commission


                                                                                                                    5.0 Economic Development   47
                                                                                                                BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                            3. TRANSPORTATION
                                                           About half of Bluffdale’s workers travel more than ten minutes for work, with
                                                           25% of workers commuting on Interstate 151. As a result, transportation costs are
                                                           much higher in Bluffdale than Salt Lake County’s average and are even higher
                                                           than the communities that make up the Southwest Valley as shown in Figure
                                                           5.10.

                                                           Beyond facing higher transportation costs, workers from Bluffdale face
                                                           congestion issues as well. With substantial growth occurring in the area, upwards
                                                           of 40,000 commuters travel along Bangerter Highway each day.2


                                                            4. CHALLENGES
                                                            CHANGING RETAIL PATTERNS
Figure 5.10 - Yearly Transportation Costs Source: Center
for Neighborhood Technology                                As the retail landscape changes throughout Utah and the country, so too will
                                                           the demands of brick and mortar. Because projections have been made by
                                                           economists and those in the industry, Bluffdale should consider amending its
                                                           land use documents in order to meet these changing demands. Possible land
                                                           use amendments could include: increased scale of development, mixed uses in
                                                           appropriate areas, flexible use tables, and decreased setbacks to create a more
                                                           pedestrian scale experience.

                                                            LACK OF DINING AND SHOPPING TYPE COMMERCIAL
                                                            USES
                                                           Historically, the overwhelming majority of land area in Bluffdale has been
                                                           consumed by residential land uses. Along Redwood Road and near 14600 South
                                                           there are some service commercial and recently, some flex-office buildings have
                                                           been developed. The City and its residents desire to have dining and shopping
                                                           options within the city, which do not currently exist due to existing population
                                                           densities. The City could create a more favorable environment by allowing and
                                                           incentivizing more dense development in its growth centers, whereby increasing
                                                           appeal for developers of retail and shopping uses.

                                                            CHALLENGE TO PROVIDE INCOME-APPROPRIATE
                                                            RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL OPTIONS
                                                           Cities across the state and the nation struggle to provide and maintain
                                                           residential options and commercial businesses that match the demographics
                                                           and incomes of the residents that reside in the area. This challenge also presents
                                                           itself in Bluffdale, and will be something that City staff and elected officials will
                                                           need to be aware of when making future land use decisions.



                                                           1 Source: US Census On-The-Map
                                                           2 Source: UDOT Average Daily Traffic Counts


                                                                                                           5.0 Economic Development         48
                                                                                                           BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                        5.2 FUTURE CONSIDERATIONS
                                                        1. CENTER-FOCUSED GROWTH CONSIDERATIONS
                                                        (FIGURE 5.11)
                                                        1. Capitalize on visibility and access from I-15 with uses that include Class A
                                                           office development.
                                                        2. Concentrate future retail development within key nodes, and with a variety
                                                           of other uses, to maximize activity.
                                                        3. Create an attractive appearance at gateways into the City (2700 West/
                                                           Bangerter Highway, 14600 South, Redwood Road/ Bangerter Highway,
                                                           Redwood Road/ Porter Rockwell Boulevard).
                                                        4. Use secondary locations for professional office and incubator space.
                                                        5. Build on existing development and amenities such as regional parks like Day
                                                           Ranch, Independence, and Jordan River Parkway.
Figure 5.11 - Bluffdale potential development centers   6. Explore potential for hotel development at key gateways such as the 14600
                                                           South corridor (east of trestle) and Porter Rockwell/Redwood Road.
                                                        7. Explore potential for current market demand and trends such as flex office
                                                           space.
                                                        8. Leverage new development synergy with redevelopment of The Point.


                                                        URBAN SCALE CENTERS
                                                        EAST 14600 SOUTH CORRIDOR (FIGURE 5.12)
                                                        The City should pursue development of a mix of uses around the interchange of
                                                        I-15 and 14600 South (east of the trestle bridge). Given the proximity to I-15 and
                                                        future development of The Point, consideration should be given to incentivize
                                                        the development of a hotel in the area, prior to other hotel uses filling in from
                                                        the prison relocation and office expansion. Once this center and the area around
Figure 5.12 - East 14600 South Corridor Node
                                                        this develops with a mix of uses, more uses such as office and retail will follow.
                                                        Sites closest to I-15 have the greatest potential for higher intensity uses. Open
                                                        space near the Jordan River should be optimized.

                                                        PORTER ROCKWELL & REDWOOD ROAD (FIGURE 5.13)
                                                        The area around Porter Rockwell Boulevard and Redwood Road is seeing an
                                                        increase in Traffic. This area, as growth and development occurs, will service a
                                                        significant amount of traffic, especially when Porter Rockwell Boulevard opens
                                                        in 2022. Future demand will be strong for professional offices, flex office/
                                                        warehouse, residential, and retail options. Hotel uses should also be considered
                                                        for this center in the future, give its proximity to Camp Williams, and location
                                                        along Redwood Road and Porter Rockwell Boulevard.
Figure 5.13 - Porter Rockwell & Redwood Road Node



                                                                                                      5.0 Economic Development        49
                                                                                                        BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                     REGIONAL CORE (FIGURE 5.14)
                                                     Designated primarily as ‘Business Park’, in the previous iteration of the General
                                                     Plan, the Regional Core center is the largest parcel of undeveloped land in
                                                     the city. While strong future potential exists, development of the entire site is
                                                     not likely for many years due to the current mining operations and existing
                                                     mining rights in this area. The potential for a future FrontRunner stop may exist
                                                     near here- if densities are transit supportive- which also presents a unique
                                                     opportunity for the center to become a regional draw. Future development
                                                     should include a broad mix of uses and densities, with a high level of internal
                                                     connectivity as well as connectivity to the surrounding areas and the region as a
                                                     whole, with the planned I-15 interchange.

                                                     At the time this document was finalized, the future development being
Figure 5.14 - Regional Core Node                     proposed on this site is, Point Crossing. Current concepts and vision for this
                                                     reclamation project include residential and commercial uses as well as transit
                                                     access.


                                                     NEIGHBORHOOD SCALE CENTERS
                                                     BANGERTER HIGHWAY & REDWOOD ROAD (FIGURE 5.15)
                                                     Bluffdale’s northern boundary is Bangerter Highway. The intersection where
                                                     Bangerter Highway exits at Redwood Road is a gateway to Bluffdale and the
                                                     first impression when traveling south on Redwood Road or exiting Bangerter
                                                     Highway. These factors make it an ideal candidate for office, mixed-use office,
                                                     and retail development in the future. Low to medium scale of development and
Figure 5.15 - Bangerter Highway & Redwood Rd. Node
                                                     a variety of uses that consider surrounding uses and scale is ideal here.

                                                     WARDLE BUSINESS PARK (FIGURE 5.16)
                                                     The neighborhood center at Bangerter Highway and 2700 West, is just north of
                                                     Wardle Fields Park and just south of Bangerter Highway, where an interchange
                                                     is planned by UDOT. This center should capitalize on these great assets and
                                                     its location and proximity to them. Retail development options should be
                                                     considered at the corner intersection. Flex office could also be pursued in this
                                                     center. Regardless of type of development, strict design guidelines should be
                                                     implemented in order to create a unique sense of place as well as maintain
Figure 5.16 - Wardle Business Park Node              transitions between single-family residential and non-residential uses. A small
                                                     senior living community has been approved here recently as a transitional use in
                                                     the southeast corner.




                                                                                                   5.0 Economic Development       50
                                                                                                                 BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                             REDWOOD ROAD- 14000 SOUTH - 14800 SOUTH
                                                             The Redwood Road corridor (Figure 5.17) is an important component to the
                                                             future success of Bluffdale. In the near future, small-scale retail and office are
                                                             becoming more viable along the corridor. New residential uses are also viable
                                                             along Redwood Road, as long as they do not have frontage along the road.
                                                             Larger scale commercial uses will be more viable along this corridor as Porter
                                                             Rockwell Boulevard is completed. Due to the smaller scale of parcels in this area,
                                                             assemblage for larger developments will be difficult.


                                                             2. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT TOOLS
                                                             Bluffdale should consider the proper application of specific tools to help expand
                                                             economic growth and commercial activities in the city (Figure 5.18). Community
                                                             Reinvestment Areas (CRA), Public Infrastructure Districts, and Strategic Zoning
                                                             are key development tools that Bluffdale have the capacity to utilize and are
                                                             described in more detail below. Other tools include the reassessment and
                                                             waiving of impact and other fees, as well as land facilitation in CRAs. These and
                                                             other tools can operate independently or collectively. A proper application of
                                                             the right tools in the correct areas will aid in slowing sales leakage, potentially
                                                             reducing commute times, and will increase the number of local options for
                                                             shopping, dining, and employment.

                                                             COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA (CRA)
Figure 5.17 - Redwood Road Corridor                          Existing Economic Development Area (EDA) and Redevelopment Areas (RDA)
                                                             within the City include the Gateway RDA, Eastern Bluffdale EDA, and the Jordan
                                                             Narrows EDA. These existing project areas should be considered by property
                                                             owners when considering development opportunities.

                                                             A CRA is an economic development tool that allows for capturing new increases
                                                             in taxable values, with those gains to be spent within a defined project area. With
                                                             participation from most local taxing entities, this tool is intended to aid projects
                                                             that would not otherwise be built with existing market conditions. A city
                                                             creates a project area plan for defined boundaries and outlines key objectives
                                                             and purposes of the planned tax financing. Bluffdale may choose to incentivize
                                                             specific types of commercial development or make requirements for residential
                                                             development. To receive funding assistance, requirements for a certain amount
                                                             of commercial space may also be added. In order to create a new successful CRA,
                                                             the project proposal must align with the policies of Salt Lake County and Jordan
 Figure 5.18 - Offering financial incentives to developers
                                                             School District.
 can create the opportunity for Bluffdale to manifest the
 type and location of development it desires.




                                                                                                            5.0 Economic Development        51
                                                                                                             BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         ZONING FOR MIXED-USE
                                                         Zoning is a key component to successful econcomic development and vitality
                                                         within Bluffdale. Zoning for a mix of uses is a relatively simply tool to implement,
                                                         where density pays for development costs. Areas within Bluffdale that are ideal
                                                         for this type of development are areas along major transportation corridors and
                                                         areas within close proximity to transit hubs, such as bus and light rail stations.

                                                         Developments that include a mix of uses also tend to include increased
                                                         densities, and therefore can increase returns on investments. Additionally, mixed-
                                                         use developments increase traffic and activity to commercial uses and can
                                                         expand hours of the day when this activity occurs, increasing economic viability
Figure 5.19 - Improving dining and shopping variety
                                                         for those businesses.
and quality can improve quality of life for the City’s
residents.
                                                         PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE DISTRICT (PID)
                                                         This development tool allows a city to establish specific requirements and
                                                         guidelines for new construction. A PID is a financing tool that permits a
                                                         property owner to issue bonds against tax revenues or assessments created
                                                         from the development. It requires 100% property ownership approval, so it
                                                         typically relates to single-ownership developments. A city can require specific
                                                         development in “exchange” for approval of a PID, thereby allowing the City to
                                                         have notable say in what type of development occurs at key sites. Bluffdale
                                                         should consider adopting a PID policy that closely outlines its vision for a
                                                         mixture of commercial and residential types.



                                                         5.3 POLICIES + IMPLEMENTATION
                                                         GOAL 1: Improve the quality of life for residents by
                                                         promoting the expansion of daily shopping needs within
                                                         the boundaries of Bluffdale (Figure 5.19).
                                                          Policy: Support a reduction in retail sales leakage outside of the City.

                                                          Implementation Strategies
                                                         1. Identify priority sectors, etc.
                                                         2. Analyze zoning schemes and community attributes for alignment.
                                                         3. Utilize economic development tools to provide incentives, as necessary or
                                                            desired, to target specific business types.
                                                         4. Partner with businesses and developers to expand current operations or to
                                                            bring in retail sectors that the City lacks.




                                                                                                        5.0 Economic Development         52
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                        GOAL 2: Support City policies that embrace the changing
                                                        retail and commercial climate in Bluffdale.

                                                        Policy
                                                        1. Diversify Bluffdale’s tax base, reducing the City’s dependency on sales tax.
                                                        2. Acknowledge residential development as a contributing factor to the
                                                           economic viability of Bluffdale.
Figure 5.20 - Bluffdale’s location and transportation   3. Ensure a balance between the needs and wants of residents, property
access will continue to draw interest from employers
                                                           owners, city staff, and elected officials.
and developers in the future.

                                                        Implementation Strategies
                                                        1. Consider performing a fiscal impact analysis of development scenarios,
                                                           including online tax collection.
                                                        1. Attract retail businesses to build up sales tax base.
                                                        2. Utilize appropriate incentives for key industries and businesses at key nodes
                                                           in the City.

                                                        GOAL 3: Promote job growth for current and future
                                                        residents, thereby reducing transportation costs and
                                                        commute times (Figure 5.20).

                                                        Policy: Focus on key nodes within the City that have the highest development
                                                        potential.

                                                        Implementation Strategies
                                                        1. Increase vocational, technological, recreational, and entrepreneurial
                                                           employment opportunities in accordance with State of Utah Cluster
                                                           Initiatives.
                                                        2. Work closely with the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity and EDC
                                                           Utah on possible locations for new businesses.




                                                                                                      5.0 Economic Development        53
                                                                                                              BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                              6.0 OPEN SPACE + TRAILS
                                                         INTRODUCTION
                                                         This chapter outlines a path toward enhanced outdoor recreation opportunities
                                                         while preserving the open space and sensitive lands that make Bluffdale unique.
                                                         Bluffdale has many young families and a population of 17,014 according to the
                                                         2020 Census. Serving existing and future populations will require improvements
                                                         to existing parks and expansion of the park, trail, and recreation system. Despite
                                                         Bluffdale’s agricultural and vacant land seeing substantial development over the
                                                         past decade to support this population growth, residents still enjoy the benefits
                                                         of many outdoor recreational resources, such as the Bluffdale City Arena (Figure
Figure 6.1- Bluffdale City Arena at City Park            6.1) and Jordan River Parkway. The City’s 2018 Capital Facilities Plan proposes
                                                         approximately $9.4 million of investment in acquisition development and
                                                         renovation over the next five years.

                                                         The City is beginning to offer limited recreation programs. Organized sports are
                                                         also provided by private youth leagues and the other entities. City residents have
                                                         access to Salt Lake County recreational facilities within, and in close proximity to,
                                                         the city boundaries. The quality of open space within Bluffdale is a characteristic
                                                         highly valued by residents and is accomplished through its parks, trail corridors,
                                                         and open space. These valuable resources provide opportunities for social
                                                         interaction, leisure, and contribute to an active, healthy lifestyle.
Figure 6.2- Bluffdale’s Mt. Jordan Park (Independence)




                                                                                                             6.0 Open Space + Trails     54
                                                                                                             BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



   PARK                                  ACREAGE         6.1 EXISTING CONDITIONS
Bluffdale City Park                      22.37
                                                         Bluffdale maintains a growing inventory of parks that support both active and
Independence Main Park                   5.75
                                                         passive recreation. The Bluffdale Park and Open Space Inventory identifies 76.16
Jeff Anderson Memorial                   5.63
                                                         acres of public parkland and recreational facilities, found at 15 park sites and
Park
                                                         numerous open space parcels. Figure 6.3 provides a current inventory.
Vintage Park                             5.61
Phillip Gates Memorial                   4.54            Using the National Parks and Recreation Association (NRPA) supply methodology
Park                                                     as a guide, the recommended minimum Level of Service (LOS) for city parks
Mt. Jordan Park                          4               is between 5-10 acres per 1,000 residents. NRPA’s 2021 Agency Performance
Westgate Park                            3.6             Review identified a median average of 9.9 acres of park land needed per 1,000
Pickle Paddle Park                       5.5             residents. With 17,014 residents reported for Bluffdale’s population, the city’s LOS
Independence Central                     0.43            is currently 6 acres of parkland per 1,000 residents, which is within NRPA’s LOS
Pocket Park                                              range.
Ten Sleep                                0.4             The Capital Facilities Plan (CFP) equates acres to a dollar value of improvements.
Marketplace Park                         1.47            This park-supply method allows future improvements to be installed and
Bluffdale Heights Park                   0.46            measured by their value, not simply acreage. As of the 2018 CFP, even with the
Jeff Anderson Memorial                   7.22            overall population growing from 7,990 residents in 2013 to 17,014 residents, the
Park Baseball Fields                                     dollar amount per person of park space increased by $212.
Rodeo Arena                              9.5
                                                         Although Bluffdale has a small formal trails inventory (Figure 6.4), the completion
Community Garden                         0.76
                                                         of the Jordan River Parkway Trail (regional) and Porter Rockwell Trail (city)
TOTAL PARK AREA:                         76.16           (both part of the Salt Lake County Regional Trail system) have been positive
Figure 6.3- Existing City park inventory in Bluffdale    gains toward providing a more connected trail system for residents. Future
                                                         opportunities for trails exist with the vast canal system in Bluffdale as well as
                                                         some Drainages. However, further analysis and prioritization is needed.


   TRAIL                                 LENGTH
                                                         PARKS & TRAILS CHALLENGES
Bluffdale City Park Trail                1.3                   » Limited financial capacity to expand programming opportunities within
Spring View Farms Trail                  2.3                     city facilities.
Jeff Anderson Memorial                   3.2                   » Coordination with other municipalities needed to expand trails system.
Park Trail
                                                               » Budget cycle prolonging implementation timeline of approved parks &
Independence Trail                       4.5
                                                                 trails projects.
TOTAL TRAIL LENGTH:                      11.3
                                                               » Priorities for trail development have not been well established.
Figure 6.4- Existing City trail inventory in Bluffdale




                                                                                                             6.0 Open Space + Trails     55
                                                                                                                                                       BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                   6.2 FUTURE CONSIDERATIONS
                                                   The 2018 Capital Facilities Plan (CFP) analyzes future facilities needs based on
                                                   the growth period of 2018 to 2045, when the projected population will be a
                                                   little over 30,000, and shows an increase of nearly 13,000 people. To maintain
                                                   the existing level of service of $1,561 per resident, the City will need to
                                                   construct facilities valuing approximately $37 million. The CFP outlines these
                                                   future facilities and from 2021 onward, about 100 acres of planned recreational
                                                   facilities are identified, with impact fees as the source of funding for acquisition
                                                   and construction. There has already been substantial population increases on
                                                   the east side of the city where much of the additional park development has
                                                   occurred as a result.




Figure 6.5 - Future Bluffdale Parks + Trails map


CITY OF BLUFFDALE                                                                                                               South Jordan
                                                                                                                                   Canal


FUTURE TRAILS,
PARKS, & OPEN SPACE                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                                                                   Porter Rockwell Trail
                                                                                                             Sa




                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                              ive
                                                                                                             lt




                                                                                                                                           nR
                                                                                                              La
                                                                                                                 ke




                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                       rd
                                                                                      U




                                                                                                                   C




                                                                                                                                    Jo
LEGEND
                                                                                      ta




                                                                                                                    an
                                                                                      h




                                                                                                                       al
                                                                                          La




                                                                                                                       Tr
                                                                                             ke




                                                                                                                         ai
                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                             D
                                                                                              is




FUTURE TRAILS, CONNECTORS, & PARKS                                                                                                                                              anal
                                                                                                                                                                          rdan C
                                                                                                tr




                                                                                                                                                                   East Jo
                                                                                                  ic




                                                                                                                  Jordan River Trail
                                                                                                  tC
                                                                                                       an




           Canal Trails
                                                                                                        al




           Possible Trail Connections                       W
                                                             el
                                                               by
                                                                    Ja
           Future Regional /Local                                     co
                                                                         b
                                                                             Ca
           Trail Connections                                                   na
                                                                                  l

           Park Areas

           Key Trail Connection Points
                                                                                                                                                               2
EXISTING TRAILS, PARKS, & OPEN SPACE

           Parks

           Open Space
                                                                                                                                1                        3
           Trails
                                                                                                                                                     Jo
                                                                                                                                                       rd




MAJOR WATERWAYS
                                                                                                                                                          an
                                                                                                                                                          Ri
                                                                                                                                                            ve




           Jordan River
                                                                                                                                                              r




                                                                                                                                                      6.0 Open Space + Trails                              56
                                                   BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



The County is a substantial partner in helping the City accomplish important
regional trail connections. Their current plan identifies five regional trail
segments within Bluffdale: the Utah Lake Distribution Canal, Utah and Salt Lake
Canal Trail, Bonneville Shoreline Trail, Porter Rockwell Trail and Jordan River
Parkway Trail. Of these, the Jordan River Parkway Trail and Porter Rockwell Trail
segments are essentially complete.


PRIORITIES FOR FUTURE TRAILS AND
CONNECTIONS
      » Independence to Day Ranch
      » Jeff Anderson Memorial Park to Day Ranch (River/Tracks Crossing)
      » Heritage 76 to Day Ranch (Dog Park)
      » Independence to Springview Farms (14600 South)
      » Canal Trails (Welby, South Jordan, East Jordan)
      » Rose Creek- 2700 West to 2200 West
      » Rose Creek- 2200 West to Redwood Road
      » Rose Creek- Redwood Road to Vintage Park
      » Rose Creek- Vintage Park to the Jordan River Parkway Trail
      » 4000 West Pedestrian Crossing
      » Jordan Narrows to Herriman
      » 14400 South Pedestrian Crossing
      » Crossing on Redwood Road/ McDougal Property
      » Wardle Fields to 3600 West




                                                   6.0 Open Space + Trails    57
                                                                                                          BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                      6.3 POLICIES & IMPLEMENTATION
                                                      GOAL 1: Promote a park and trails system that provides
                                                      outstanding active and passive community gathering and
                                                      recreation opportunities.

                                                      Policies
                                                      1. Maintain a park system that meets appropriate supply standards or Level of
                                                         Service (LOS) and provides outstanding community gathering opportunities.
                                                      2. Provide a mix of park types that accommodate a variety of community
                                                         needs and are sensitive to the nature of local demand. Ensure that the
Figure 6.6- Aerial view of new park improvements in      values of regional, community, neighborhood, specialty, and athletic parks
Bluffdale.                                               are balanced and addressed (Figure 6.6).
                                                      3. Seek opportunities to connect parks and open space in the city with trails,
                                                         so that the parks and trails in the city function as a system.

                                                      Implementation Strategies
                                                      1. Update the 2015 Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation, and Open Space Master
                                                         Plan to guide acquisition and programming efforts of the city and develop a
                                                         parks, recreation, and trails management plan.
                                                      2. Coordinate all specific park development with appropriate stakeholders,
                                                         including other local governments and private partners (to ensure efficacy
                                                         and maximize the values of these amenities regionally).

                                                      GOAL 2: Design and develop a comprehensive trails
                                                      system that effectively accommodates a mixture of uses.

                                                      Policy
                                                      1. Develop a network of shared-use trails and corridors to enable connectivity
                                                         between local and regional parks, neighborhoods and public amenities.

                                                      Implementation Strategies
                                                      1. Update the plan for preserving and developing trails within the City that
                                                         allow multiple modes of travel (Figure 6.7).
                                                      2. Prioritize development of trail recreation opportunities, with a particular
                                                         focus on linking the Bonneville Shoreline Trail (BST ), Rose Creek Trail, East
                                                         Jordan Canal, and the Jordan River Trail (JRT ) regionally.
                                                      3. Design and plan trail connections that create loops (6-8 miles minimum)
                                                         that are designated and appropriate for all user groups. Link City and County
Figure 6.7- Trails at Independence Park.
                                                         parks and major public activity centers using non-motorized paths that are
                                                         safe for a wide variety of uses. Initiate dialogue with local canal companies
                                                         to establish rights-of-way for multiple-use trails.




                                                                                                          6.0 Open Space + Trails     58
                                                                                                          BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                       4. Coordinate with Salt Lake County and seek to maximize consistency with the
                                                          Salt Lake County East West Recreational Trails Master Plan (2015) (Figure 6.8)
                                                          and the trails planning of neighboring communities.
                                                       5. Enhance awareness of the trails system in Bluffdale by improving signage,
                                                          wayfinding, developing printed information, and maintaining an online trail
                                                          system map for residents and visitors to consult.
                                                       6. Prioritize connections to isolated areas and safe walking routes to schools.

                                                       GOAL 3: Protect and improve existing parks, open space,
                                                       and trails by creating a long-term comprehensive plan
                                                       allocating funds for operation and ongoing maintenance
                                                       costs

                                                       Policy
                                                       1. Prioritize an active program for park acquisition, design, construction and
Figure 6.8 - Salt Lake County East West Recreational      management that will accommodate future park needs.
Trails Master Plan (2015)
                                                       Implementation Strategy
                                                       1. Focus on acquisition and development of parks in neighborhoods that are
                                                          underserved and in need of additional park supply.

                                                       Policy
                                                       1. Consider a City Parks and Trails Committee (CPTC) to prioritize park planning
                                                          and programming efforts and ensure resident involvement in the process.

                                                       Implementation Strategy
                                                       1. Ensure the City Parks and Trails Committee (CPTC) actively works with city
                                                          administration to anticipate budget needs, revenues, and costs, and pursues
                                                          grants and other available monies for the preservation of sensitive lands,
                                                          acquisition of key easements and properties, and the construction of parks
                                                          and trails.

                                                       Policy
                                                       1. Strive to meet present and future recreational and sensitive resource
                                                          protection needs of the City.

                                                       Implementation Strategies
                                                       1. Identify priorities for conservation, such as areas of existing open space that
                                                          are ecologically sensitive or unsuitable for development, riparian/wetland
                                                          areas, and unique local natural features.
                                                       2. Establish specific standards for open space identification, acquisition,
                                                          protection, maintenance, and development.




                                                                                                         6.0 Open Space + Trails     59
                                                                                                  BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                                7.0 RESILIENCY

                                              INTRODUCTION
                                              Currently, resiliency is not addressed in Bluffdale’s previous general plan or
                                              city policies. Creating a resilient future benefits its citizens and is reflected
                                              throughout the community. To create such a community, an understanding and
                                              support for the value of resiliency at a municipal level is needed.



                                              7.1 EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                              Resiliency is defined as the ability to meet the needs of the current generation
                                              without compromising the ability for future generations to meet their needs.

                    Natural                   Resiliency is a broad term that covers three different pillars: the economic
                                              resiliency for the municipality, the social landscape, and the natural health within
                                              the city and the greater region (Figure 7.1). Resiliency occurs at the intersection
                                              of the three pillars. A change in community health may affect economic
         Social                Economic
                                              resiliency, or may be impacted by an natural change. Natural resources within
                                              the City include the ecology, air quality, and water quality.

                                              Resiliency matters are integrated into many other sections of the General Plan
Figure 7.1 Resilient development within the
City includes social, natural, and economic   including Land Use, Economic Development, Housing, and Open Space and
components.                                   Trails.

                                              Committing to creating a resilient future for itself and its citizens, and it being
                                              reflected throughout the community, will be a benefit to all. The City may want
                                              to invest in each of the pillars to focus attention towards achieving the attainable
                                              and implementable strategies within this document and within each of the City’s
                                              departments.




                                                                                                           7.0 Resiliency    60
                                                                                                       BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                    7.2 FUTURE CONSIDERATIONS
                                                    ECONOMIC RESILIENCY
                                                    Economic Resiliency (Figure 7.2) means long-term economic growth without
                                                    negative impacts on social, natural, and cultural aspects of a community.
                                                    A resilient economy ensures that resources, such as land, labor, and capital
                                                    are managed fairly to benefit society. It also uses resources efficiently and
                                                    responsibly so it can operate successfully for future generations.

                                                    Resilient economies are also diverse, have equal opportunities, and advance the
                                                    individuals within them. Bluffdale has several advantages in that it has a wide
                                                    mix of business types and land uses, and a wide range of price points for land
Figure 7.2 - Economic resiliency includes           and buildings. In short, its diversity means there are opportunities for many, and
diversifying the tax base and supporting job
                                                    room for growth.
growth.
                                                    Other ways in which economic resiliency is exemplified include:
                                                    1. Diversification of tax base
                                                    2. Planning for future city investments
                                                    3. Supporting job growth
                                                    4. Access to opportunity

                                                    NATURAL RESILIENCY
                                                    Natural Resiliency makes it possible for present day needs to be met without
                                                    compromising the ability of future generations to do the same. Many factors
                                                    contribute to the natural resiliency of a community, but incremental changes in
                                                    municipal policy and incentives can influence resiliency on a community as well
                                                    as household scale.

                                                    Moving towards Natural Resiliency is a common goal among all community
                                                    leaders, citizens, employers, and other organizations. Natural systems such
                                                    as watersheds, soils, landforms, wind, and air masses transcend political
Figure 7.3 - Many city projects and policies have   boundaries and affect regions larger than the boundaries of any one jurisdiction.
an overlapping resiliency motivation, and can be    Collaboration between cities and regions is essential. A coalition based on
both supportive of natural and economic systems.
                                                    bio-regions would focus on natural systems rather than political boundaries for
                                                    building effective and resilient policies.

                                                    The city’s Natural Resiliency toolbox should include programs that address water
                                                    conservation, recycling, energy efficiency, active transportation, and open space
                                                    preservation (Figure 7.3).




                                                                                                                7.0 Resiliency      61
                                                                                                                    BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                       WATER CONSERVATION

                                                   The City of Bluffdale adopted the 2021 Water Conservation Plan Update in
                                                   December, 2021 (Figure 7.4). The City recognizes the need for proactive planning
                                                   to meet the water needs of its citizens. The Utah State Legislature has passed
                                                   legislation requiring public water suppliers to prepare a Water Conservation
                                                   Plan and then to update the plan periodically. The 2021 report is an update
                                                   of the City’s 2015 Water Conservation Plan. This report describes the drinking
                                                   water system, summarizes water consumption, assesses the water conservation
                                                   alternatives available to the City, sets goals to conserve water, and identifies
                                                   existing and proposed water conservation measures to be implemented by the
                                                   City.

                                                   The inclusion of this document in the appendix of this general plan, serves as the
                                                   required adoption of the water conservation element in the general plan. The
                                                   plan in its entirety can be found in the appendix of this general plan document.

Figure 7.4 - Bluffdale’s 2021 Water Conservation       Goal
Plan Update, December 2021.
                                                   The new Regional Municipal and Industrial 2030 Water Conservation Goal for the
                                                   Salt Lake region is to reduce consumption by 11% from the year 2015 to 2030,
                                                   resulting in a reduction goal of 210 to 187 gallons per capita per day (gpcd).
                                                   Bluffdale City is already below the regional goal, and therefore, has the goal to
                                                   also have an 11% reduction from 2015 to 2030, following the same trajectory as
                                                   the regional goal. The City was at 171 gpcd in 2015. The City’s goal is to be at 152
                                                   gpcd by 2030.1

                                                   SOCIAL RESILIENCY
                                                   Civic infrastructure includes the organizations and relationships that people use
                                                   to solve problems, build community, and be resilient, whereby advancing Social
                                                   Resiliency. A sense of community and belonging has a proven impact on public
                                                   health, safety and welfare. Recreational programming in Bluffdale can include
                                                   the use of public spaces to build relationships and engage people in community
                                                   conversations. Social Resiliency includes:
                                                   1. Building community culture using placemaking strategies
                                                   2. Community pride
                                                   3. Public engagement with city decisions
                                                   4. Neighborhood support and problem solving

                                                   City events and programs that are offered for free or very low cost, appeal to the
                                                   changing needs of the culturally diverse and growing youth population. Even
                                                   as the community welcomes many new residents, there is also a proud group of
                                                   life-long legacy residents who provide stability and identity to Bluffdale.

                                                   The city’s Social Resiliency toolbox could include:

                                                   1   Source: City Of Bluffdale 2021 Water Conservation Plan Update, Hansen, Allen & Luce Engineers


                                                                                                                               7.0 Resiliency          62
                                                                                                              BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                           1. More parks, trails and open spaces with amenities and activities/events that
                                                              bring people together.
                                                           2. Expansion of a civic center in Bluffdale around City Hall.
                                                           3. Placemaking projects, such as wayfinding, public art, and pop-up public
                                                              space, to bring people together in new and different ways.
                                                           4. Expanded outreach tools, including technology-based communications
                                                              to simplify interactions with city government and increase community
                                                              engagement.

Figure 7.5 - Community events encourage                    5. More diverse programs at all community gathering spaces, including
expansion of social connections and greater                   recreation, education, arts, senior programs, job and career tools, food and
engagement with neighbors.
                                                              hygiene pantries, and digital access.
                                                           6. Events that reflect the community and its interests (Figure 7.5).
                                                           7. Continued opportunities to volunteer and get involved in civic activities and
                                                              human services.



                                                           7.3 POLICIES + IMPLEMENTATION
                                                           Goals
                                                           1. Support preservation of natural features that contribute to the character of
                                                              Bluffdale.
Figure 7.6 - A first step to resiliency for Bluffdale is   2. Encourage city policies that support economic and fiscal resiliency.
to form a working group to begin to define how
community values should influence the city’s               3. Support social resiliency by promoting policies that encourage community
policies on resiliency.                                       engagement and public participation.

                                                           Policies
                                                           1. Identify the City’s resiliency priorities.
                                                           2. Establish a resiliency working group (Figure 7.6).
                                                           3. Engage residents and staff in the resiliency discussion by initiating an
                                                              education and awareness effort.

                                                           Implementation Strategies
                                                           1. Coordinate with other municipalities and entities on policies that support
                                                              resiliency (recycling, water usage, active transportation, land use, economic
                                                              development).
                                                           2. Develop a portfolio of recommended resilient design standards, such as
                                                              such as water-wise landscaping permeable paving, and other features to
                                                              encourage developers to incorporate sustainable design elements in future
                                                              projects.




                                                                                                                       7.0 Resiliency    63
APPENDIX
•   COMMUNITY SURVEY RESULTS
•   TRANSPORTATION PLAN
•   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REPORT
•   2022 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIC PLAN
•   2021 MODERATE INCOME HOUSING REPORT
•   2021 WATER CONSERVATION PLAN UPDATE
•   2015 BLUFFDALE PARKS, TRAILS, RECREATION & OPEN SPACE MASTER PLAN




                                                                        A P P EN D I X   |i
                  BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




COMMUNITY SURVEY RESULTS




                         Appendices   ii
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




                                         Q1 What is your connection to Bluffdale?
                                                             Answered: 620    Skipped: 0




                              Resident




                         Business owner




                         Other property
                                 owner



                                         0%   10%     20%   30%    40%       50%   60%     70%      80%   90% 100%



ANSWER CHOICES                                                                              RESPONSES

Resident                                                                                    99.19%                   615

Business owner                                                                              5.16%                    32

Other property owner                                                                        1.61%                    10

Total Respondents: 620




                                                                    1 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




                     Q2 If you are a resident, how long have you lived in Bluffdale?
                                                             Answered: 616    Skipped: 4




                         1 to 10 years




                        More than 10
                               years




                          Less than 1
                                 year



                                         0%   10%     20%   30%    40%       50%   60%     70%    80%   90% 100%



ANSWER CHOICES                                                                           RESPONSES

1 to 10 years                                                                            67.37%                    415

More than 10 years                                                                       22.73%                    140

Less than 1 year                                                                         9.90%                     61

TOTAL                                                                                                              616




                                                                    2 / 110
                                  Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




Q3 In your opinion, what is the biggest challenge Bluffdale should address in the next five years?
                                          Answered: 601     Skipped: 19




                                                  3 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

#    RESPONSES                                                                                                                       DATE
1    Keeping Money Spent locally ie. more grocery/shopping in bluffdale                                                              3/14/2021 9:08 PM

2    We need real retail. No more warehouses                                                                                         3/14/2021 4:56 PM

3    Transportation and retail development (grocery stores, restaurants)                                                             3/14/2021 2:37 PM

4    Growth / transportation                                                                                                         3/13/2021 6:54 PM

5    Open space, trails, traffic, mass transit                                                                                       3/13/2021 3:42 PM

6    Transportation Infrastructure                                                                                                   3/13/2021 11:50 AM

7    bringing in retail and commercial businesses                                                                                    3/12/2021 8:26 AM

8    Shortage of Grocery Stores                                                                                                      3/12/2021 7:14 AM

9    Smart growth. Do NOT grow like Herriman                                                                                         3/11/2021 4:12 PM

10   Too much growth                                                                                                                 3/11/2021 12:00 PM

11   Balancing business growth while maintaining large home sites                                                                    3/11/2021 11:41 AM

12   Traffic and road systems                                                                                                        3/11/2021 9:22 AM

13   Lack of Retail/grocery                                                                                                          3/10/2021 9:37 PM

14   residential areas/traffic flow                                                                                                  3/10/2021 5:49 PM

15   Growth                                                                                                                          3/10/2021 2:53 PM

16   Dining and shopping availability                                                                                                3/10/2021 2:22 PM

17   No Groceries SHops near by.                                                                                                     3/10/2021 12:04 PM

18   Growth and rezoning                                                                                                             3/10/2021 10:09 AM

19   Bridge and widening 146th to help with the traffic of the new development at the prison                                         3/10/2021 8:28 AM

20   Proper growth management                                                                                                        3/10/2021 8:08 AM

21   What is built when prison moves                                                                                                 3/10/2021 7:06 AM

22   Getting a grocery store                                                                                                         3/9/2021 10:06 PM

23   More businesses tax revenue                                                                                                     3/9/2021 9:10 PM

24   Pass                                                                                                                            3/9/2021 8:44 PM

25   Caring for the dense residential area and the health and well being of the residents.                                           3/9/2021 7:43 PM

26   Staying rural but allowing reasonable commercial uses                                                                           3/9/2021 7:36 PM

27   Growth. Keeping it as rural as possible. Keeping acre plus lots acre plus lots. Not allowing people to sell off half of their   3/9/2021 6:08 PM


                                                                           4 / 110
                                                   Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

     property and build another house. Also stop people from building shops that are bigger than their homes

28   Business growth                                                                                                            3/9/2021 3:51 PM

29   Uniting east and west Bluffdale. Maintaining property values by encouraging smart commercial growth.                       3/9/2021 2:58 PM

30   Bringing in more Retail / Shopping / Restaurants.                                                                          3/9/2021 12:52 PM

31   Traffic under bridge on 146                                                                                                3/9/2021 12:41 PM

32   Population growth                                                                                                          3/9/2021 8:47 AM

33   Planning the space once the prison moves                                                                                   3/9/2021 6:06 AM

34   Roads, Traffic and brining in business.                                                                                    3/8/2021 9:36 PM

35   More roads and stop lights to accommodate the rapid growth                                                                 3/8/2021 9:09 PM

36   Technology and internet speeds                                                                                             3/8/2021 8:43 PM

37   Keeping rural Bluffdale rural.                                                                                             3/8/2021 8:01 PM

38   Roads and growth                                                                                                           3/8/2021 7:45 PM

39   At least adding in a middle turn lane along 146th from the tunnel to the freeway. Or fixing that dang one way tunnel!      3/8/2021 7:02 PM

40   Preserving 1-acre lot zoning                                                                                               3/8/2021 6:35 PM

41   Lack of commercial shopping (restaurants, grocery stores, etc)                                                             3/8/2021 5:24 PM

42   We must need to have a grocery store, saloon, coffee shop and tennis court                                                 3/8/2021 4:52 PM

43   Integrating with the upcoming Prison Development                                                                           3/8/2021 4:30 PM

44   More business, restaurants, grocery stores                                                                                 3/8/2021 4:30 PM

45   growth                                                                                                                     3/8/2021 4:01 PM

46   Growth                                                                                                                     3/8/2021 3:50 PM

47   Roads and water resources. Land and Zoning. Keep Bluffdale as Bluffdale and not become like our surrounding cities. Keep   3/8/2021 3:00 PM
     zoning in appropriate locations within the city

48   Prison area                                                                                                                3/8/2021 2:59 PM

49   East-west transportation                                                                                                   3/8/2021 2:39 PM

50   Getting more commercial businesses here                                                                                    3/8/2021 2:33 PM

51   Grocery Stores like Smith/Harmons, Long Tennis Play Grounds, Recreation Center                                             3/8/2021 2:17 PM

52   What to develop in place of the old prison                                                                                 3/8/2021 2:10 PM

53   Traffic as Bluffdale continues to grow                                                                                     3/8/2021 1:39 PM



                                                                         5 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

54   Road on 146th with the one way under the bridge. Grocery off the 146th exit                                                   3/8/2021 1:28 PM

55   Traffic and Shopping                                                                                                          3/8/2021 1:05 PM

56   The 146th south one-way road under the trax, and getting food and entertainment brought in, specifically a grocery store.     3/8/2021 12:41 PM

57   Need to have tennis court, some grocer shop                                                                                   3/8/2021 12:37 PM

58   Retail for convenience and tax revenue                                                                                        3/8/2021 12:13 PM

59   Park and Grocery store                                                                                                        3/8/2021 12:02 PM

60   Growing traffic and more accessibility to Grocery stores and parks                                                            3/8/2021 12:01 PM

61   I believe the surge of residential housing in Bluffdale would drive a significant challenge to maintain and control traffic   3/8/2021 11:46 AM
     through some of the busy streets.

62   We have enough business buildings and need a grocery store and restaurants to contribute to the city. We are constantly       3/8/2021 11:28 AM
     spending money in other cities near us and it would be nice to contribute to our own community where we live. A Trader
     Joe’s would be fantastic

63   Growth and Development                                                                                                        3/8/2021 11:21 AM

64   Planning for influx of residents after prison move is completed                                                               3/8/2021 11:17 AM

65   The close proximity of commercial zoning to residential zoning.                                                               3/8/2021 11:03 AM

66   Restaurants and retail businesses                                                                                             3/8/2021 10:59 AM

67   Bringing in a local grocery store.                                                                                            3/8/2021 10:55 AM

68   upgraded roads to support more traffic and grocery store                                                                      3/8/2021 10:49 AM

69   grocery store/shopping center                                                                                                 3/8/2021 10:46 AM

70   Roads                                                                                                                         3/8/2021 10:43 AM

71   Adding a local grocer                                                                                                         3/8/2021 10:39 AM

72   Provide meaningful services around the independance neighberhoods and move away 'manufacturing' type business that            3/8/2021 10:34 AM
     create a lot of noise and pollution near our homes.

73   How they are going to deal with the prison being gone                                                                         3/8/2021 10:28 AM

74   Grocery stores                                                                                                                3/8/2021 10:22 AM

75   Need more grocery and shopping options within our city. A recreation center, like alta canyon or cottonwood heights, would    3/8/2021 10:18 AM
     be ideal! We need more options for recreation for our children. Not enough in our area.

76   Bridge by the roundabout                                                                                                      3/8/2021 10:17 AM

77   Manage growth and moving the prison.                                                                                          3/8/2021 10:15 AM

78   Fixing 146 south to allow for better traffic flow, and allowing more businesses, restaurants, gas stations in                 3/8/2021 10:09 AM



                                                                           6 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

79    Growth/Traffic                                                                                                               3/8/2021 10:08 AM

80    Bringing in commercial business like grocery stores, restaurants, a gym/Rec center                                           3/8/2021 10:07 AM

81    Lack of grocery shopping                                                                                                     3/8/2021 10:06 AM

82    Getting Porter Rockwell completed                                                                                            3/8/2021 10:06 AM

83    Expanding 14600 S, getting rid of the one way underpass                                                                      3/8/2021 10:03 AM

84    Local food services: grocery, restaurants                                                                                    3/8/2021 10:00 AM

85    Grocery stores close by                                                                                                      3/8/2021 9:59 AM

86    Retail                                                                                                                       3/8/2021 9:56 AM

87    146th is so narrow west of Porter Rockwell.                                                                                  3/8/2021 9:49 AM

88    Places to eat. Places to shop. Grocery stores.                                                                               3/8/2021 9:41 AM

89    Grocery stores and tennis courts                                                                                             3/8/2021 9:37 AM

90    The train trestle on 146th south                                                                                             3/8/2021 9:36 AM

91    Bringing in businesses and getting porter rockwell and configured and running.                                               3/8/2021 9:33 AM

92    Lack of super markets                                                                                                        3/8/2021 9:30 AM

93    Growth                                                                                                                       3/8/2021 9:26 AM

94    Creating a better community for the adults that live here. The Independence area is far too oriented to young families and   3/8/2021 9:19 AM
      children, which is fine, but the adults and households without children need entertainment and options too. Would love to
      see restaurants, coffee shops, nightlife, gyms and yoga studios, farmers markets, car washes, etc come to this area.

95    Growth, over crowded roads                                                                                                   3/8/2021 8:22 AM

96    Planned growth and commercial development                                                                                    3/8/2021 8:00 AM

97    Keeping high density housing out                                                                                             3/8/2021 7:38 AM

98    Lowering taxes                                                                                                               3/8/2021 7:32 AM

99    Growth We need to bring in the right types of Business. We should have retail and dining at proper locations                 3/8/2021 7:27 AM

100   Becoming just like Draper. High density housing and businesses everywhere. Let’s try to stay small.                          3/7/2021 8:40 PM

101   there’s no grocery store or fast food/restaurants but lots more new housing                                                  3/7/2021 4:06 PM

102   Allowing property owners to sell half acre instead of one.                                                                   3/7/2021 2:47 PM

103   correct zoning in the right location                                                                                         3/7/2021 2:45 PM

104   Growth (which includes housing, traffic, businesses, etc)                                                                    3/7/2021 10:33 AM

105   Lack of retail space for restaurants and grocery stores.                                                                     3/7/2021 9:31 AM


                                                                         7 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

106   Focusing on retail growth and getting a large grocer in independence. Keeping small town top of mind and more residential.     3/6/2021 10:46 PM

107   More Business and Commercial in the best locations. Revenue = a good P&L                                                       3/6/2021 10:24 PM

108   Removing power lines. We also need more commercial stores.                                                                     3/6/2021 9:15 PM

109   Creating opportunities to increase the city's revenue to support services                                                      3/6/2021 9:05 PM

110   Attracting retail businesses                                                                                                   3/6/2021 7:18 PM

111   The dirt that bows everywhere from the quarries                                                                                3/6/2021 3:03 PM

112   Lack of commercial development i.e no grocery stores or restaurants located in the city                                        3/6/2021 2:19 PM

113   It needs to have more shopping center and grocery stores.                                                                      3/6/2021 1:39 PM

114   Restraints and more stores when the prison leaves                                                                              3/6/2021 1:35 PM

115   A grocery store and food service                                                                                               3/6/2021 1:14 PM

116   Improving roads/access to keep up with growth                                                                                  3/6/2021 11:59 AM

117   Grocery store. The one lane road under the bridge. How crazy and dramatic city council was... that was a little alarming the   3/6/2021 11:58 AM
      dramatics

118   Increased traffic and road infrastructure                                                                                      3/6/2021 11:29 AM

119   More business, restaurants, etc                                                                                                3/6/2021 10:39 AM

120   Increasing commercial construction.                                                                                            3/6/2021 10:12 AM

121   Growth planning                                                                                                                3/6/2021 9:28 AM

122   The one way bridge traffic                                                                                                     3/6/2021 8:46 AM

123   Roads being built before homes being built. Transportation with influx of residents will need to be priority.                  3/6/2021 8:22 AM

124   Roads..146000 south and 1640 west                                                                                              3/6/2021 8:13 AM

125   Traffic                                                                                                                        3/6/2021 8:05 AM

126   14600 s from freeway to the one lane underpass needs a turn lane, street lights, sidewalks etc. even with Porter Rockwell      3/6/2021 7:24 AM
      completed

127   Traffic and congestion                                                                                                         3/6/2021 6:53 AM

128   We need more commercial real estate. I don’t want to have to pay property taxes out the wazoo because the west side of         3/6/2021 5:55 AM
      Bluffdale cry and moan every time something that would actually help out city tries to go in.

129   Building Porter Rockwell Blvd so Bluffdale is easier connected to surrounding areas.                                           3/6/2021 1:43 AM

130   #1: fix the one way train underpass on 146th. #2: Getting some own stores, business right here. Rec center, pool, library,     3/6/2021 12:50 AM
      grocery store.



                                                                           8 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

131   ?                                                                                                                                3/5/2021 10:35 PM

132   Need more density to attract more commercial                                                                                     3/5/2021 10:34 PM

133   Traffic from other cities cutting through Bluffdale. There has been an increase in the speed of vehicles on streets like 2700    3/5/2021 10:27 PM
      w and 14400 so from people cutting through to avoid traffic. Additionally, there shouldn’t be any more thru streets off 15000s
      or 14400 s streets. There has been increased pressure to change the zoning from 1 acre lots to multi use or “higher”density
      lots. There needs to be more emphasis to what the residents want and less to what developers want to happen. Bluffdale
      needs to keep the 1 acre lots zoning.

134   Roads                                                                                                                            3/5/2021 10:06 PM

135   Lack of business development. Focusing on goods not services.                                                                    3/5/2021 9:20 PM

136   The Prison Land development.                                                                                                     3/5/2021 9:20 PM

137   commercial growth                                                                                                                3/5/2021 8:37 PM

138   Retail properties, more grocery stores                                                                                           3/5/2021 8:33 PM

139   Traffic flow                                                                                                                     3/5/2021 8:14 PM

140   Traffic flow, commercial real estate                                                                                             3/5/2021 7:42 PM

141   Grocery Store!!! For heaven sakes a Grocery store!                                                                               3/5/2021 6:33 PM

142   The stupid single lane tunnel/trestle                                                                                            3/5/2021 6:00 PM

143   Commercial activity in high density areas                                                                                        3/5/2021 5:49 PM

144   Will infrastructure/transportation keep up with the increases in residential and (hopefully) commercial construction.            3/5/2021 4:37 PM

145   More customer facing business, less hard industrial, traffic                                                                     3/5/2021 3:19 PM

146   Balancing business and high density housing                                                                                      3/5/2021 2:44 PM

147   14600 S freeway access, the roads need more lanes off Porter Rockwell. Too congested.                                            3/5/2021 2:40 PM

148   we don’t want Bluffdale becoming daybreak or Herriman. Don’t shrink lot sizes down so small that we lose the small town          3/5/2021 2:24 PM
      feel of old Bluffdale.

149   0ne way Bridge on 14600, need more retail/commercial - grocery stores, restaurants                                               3/5/2021 2:21 PM

150   The Who what when where and how of commercial property                                                                           3/5/2021 2:13 PM

151   Retail options, especially a grocery store                                                                                       3/5/2021 2:04 PM

152   Growth, Tax revenue                                                                                                              3/5/2021 1:52 PM

153   Traffic flow, more businesses                                                                                                    3/5/2021 1:49 PM

154   Tax base. We need a commercial area with a good grocery store. We also need to be careful about roads going through our          3/5/2021 1:39 PM
      city. Avoiding a thoroughfare on 14400 and 15000. Pressurized water for areas around 14400.



                                                                          9 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

155   A grocery store!!!!!!!                                                                                                           3/5/2021 1:39 PM

156   Preserving the open space and rural feel that drew residents here amidst all the planned growth.                                 3/5/2021 12:52 PM

157   The rapid rise in taxes. We need more business to share the load.                                                                3/5/2021 12:40 PM

158   Moving the prison                                                                                                                3/5/2021 12:15 PM

159   Over crowding                                                                                                                    3/5/2021 11:50 AM

160   Residential growth and appropriate planning for the right mix of single family homes, apartments, and townhomes to               3/5/2021 11:44 AM
      maintain density that doesn’t tax the current infrastructure.

161   Roads and growth                                                                                                                 3/5/2021 11:37 AM

162   Parking, crime, and car accidents                                                                                                3/5/2021 11:33 AM

163   More local retail                                                                                                                3/5/2021 10:20 AM

164   Growth and businesses                                                                                                            3/5/2021 10:05 AM

165   Adding infrastructure and more commercial                                                                                        3/5/2021 10:01 AM

166   We need stores and a gas station                                                                                                 3/5/2021 9:59 AM

167   Grocery stores, parking, and less townhomes                                                                                      3/5/2021 9:45 AM

168   Traffic, growth                                                                                                                  3/5/2021 9:42 AM

169   Population growth. Over crowding too many people too many homes per acre number to traffic                                       3/5/2021 9:38 AM

170   When we built we valued the open spaced old small town feel within large populous cities around us. Bluffdale city should        3/5/2021 9:30 AM
      value that idea and try to keep the nostalgia of being the only small town in salt lake county. I see mill creek and other
      small cities and realize if we do t manage it correctly we could end up like Herriman with Massive residential growth with no
      plan to facilitate so many people. Please don’t forget why we all love it here. We need open space, parks, community
      oriented buildings such as rev center, pools, etc. 14600 traffic due to independence needs attention. The lack of sidewalks
      on 14600 is very concerning in addition to turn lanes would help with traffic. Lastly the light by summit high school needs to
      be 2 lanes headed east and not one.

171   Transportation                                                                                                                   3/5/2021 9:29 AM

172   Needed commercial space: Food, gas stations, commerce.                                                                           3/5/2021 9:24 AM

173   Rex center and more shopping                                                                                                     3/5/2021 9:08 AM

174   Addressed to city council: Actually listening to the residents you work for and not voting based on self growth or opinions.     3/5/2021 9:07 AM
      Recently high density housing was approve even though a very high percentage of residents said no. Very soon we will be
      facing the city wanting to put their commercial building west of redwood and right in the middle of residents and 1 acre lots.

175   Redwood Rd and 14400 south to Herriman                                                                                           3/5/2021 8:58 AM

176   Shopping                                                                                                                         3/5/2021 8:50 AM

177   14600 South. With all the growth we need to expand the roadways and revamp the narrow road under the railroad line.              3/5/2021 8:48 AM


                                                                          10 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


178   Keeping the feel                                                                                                               3/5/2021 8:39 AM

179   Traffic and a grocery store                                                                                                    3/5/2021 8:33 AM

180   We need more homes west of 1300 W (higher density) and more shopping options                                                   3/5/2021 8:26 AM

181   Finish the dog park, visitor parking at The Ranch townhomes                                                                    3/5/2021 8:23 AM

182   Grocery stores                                                                                                                 3/5/2021 8:19 AM

183   There are very few retail shops in Bluffdale                                                                                   3/5/2021 8:16 AM

184   Infrastructure design and support.                                                                                             3/5/2021 8:13 AM

185   No grocery stores/shopping                                                                                                     3/5/2021 8:07 AM

186   The 14600 traffic, especially the front runner track where there is only one lane. And grocery markets                         3/5/2021 8:02 AM

187   Ease of access and helping with traffic                                                                                        3/5/2021 7:56 AM

188   We need more amenities. Grocery stores, fast food etc. It's great to hang on to tradition until you fill yourself with these   3/5/2021 7:56 AM
      awful retail warehouses they are an eye sore.

189   Lack of public transit                                                                                                         3/5/2021 7:55 AM

190   Improving 14600 South to connect Independence with the rest of the community.                                                  3/5/2021 7:47 AM

191   Traffic congestion E-W between redwood and 15 and the lack of restaurants, groceries, bars                                     3/5/2021 7:44 AM

192   Traffic & shopping areas. We’ve been traveling to nearby cities for groceries weekly                                           3/5/2021 7:39 AM

193   Commercial                                                                                                                     3/5/2021 7:34 AM

194   Restaurants, grocery stores, dog parks,                                                                                        3/5/2021 7:24 AM

195   Managing growth                                                                                                                3/5/2021 7:22 AM

196   Grow in business.                                                                                                              3/5/2021 7:15 AM

197   Widening 146th from the freeway to Noell Nelson.                                                                               3/5/2021 7:13 AM

198   Grocery store availability                                                                                                     3/5/2021 7:02 AM

199   Not enough retail or eating                                                                                                    3/5/2021 7:00 AM

200   More parks/outdoor recreation                                                                                                  3/5/2021 6:58 AM

201   Schooling and housing                                                                                                          3/5/2021 6:58 AM

202   Making smart changes so the city retains country feel. Prevent crime, don't over crowd, community friendly business            3/5/2021 6:58 AM

203   Sustainable Commercial growth                                                                                                  3/5/2021 6:42 AM

204   Growth                                                                                                                         3/5/2021 6:33 AM



                                                                          11 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

205   Grocery store or traffic/parking                                                                                              3/5/2021 6:24 AM

206   the traffic along 146th....need more lanes. More grocery store options as well as clothing stores. Movie theaters,            3/5/2021 5:50 AM
      restaurants. But expanding the road on 146th would be nice.

207   The growing population. Bringing comercial grocery, etc. to meet need and demand                                              3/5/2021 4:32 AM

208   Consumer services, shopping, retail, restaurants, entertainememt                                                              3/5/2021 1:37 AM

209   The prison site will be a huge challenge.                                                                                     3/5/2021 1:16 AM

210   Property taxes being reduced by commercial taxes (brining in more business)                                                   3/5/2021 1:15 AM

211   n/a                                                                                                                           3/5/2021 12:16 AM

212   The warehouses and random commercial crap you see when you get off 14600 and drive into Bluffdale. Of course when the         3/5/2021 12:14 AM
      prison goes things will improve on that front but there’s still a bunch of broken signs and random industrial crap all over
      14600.

213   Public transportation                                                                                                         3/5/2021 12:07 AM

214   City transportation within the independence neighborhood.                                                                     3/5/2021 12:05 AM

215   Getting a Grocery store, widening 14600 s., Getting a library, and City rec sports for kids                                   3/5/2021 12:03 AM

216   Traffic at the I 15 and 14600 S intersection                                                                                  3/4/2021 11:53 PM

217   Building up the infrastructure around the prison property properly                                                            3/4/2021 11:48 PM

218   Grocery stores                                                                                                                3/4/2021 11:41 PM

219   Growth                                                                                                                        3/4/2021 11:35 PM

220   Public transportation                                                                                                         3/4/2021 11:28 PM

221   Getting more retail options in our city. Fixing parking problems the city allowed to happen                                   3/4/2021 11:28 PM

222   Getting more retail within city limits to help ease property tax burdens on residents. Our property taxes are sooo high.      3/4/2021 11:28 PM

223   Dust from Geneva                                                                                                              3/4/2021 11:27 PM

224   Adding restaurants and stores                                                                                                 3/4/2021 11:14 PM

225   We need more retail, ie. grocery store(s) and restaurants,                                                                    3/4/2021 11:13 PM

226   We need retail!                                                                                                               3/4/2021 11:12 PM

227   The prison                                                                                                                    3/4/2021 11:06 PM

228   Access to a grocery store/restaurants                                                                                         3/4/2021 11:03 PM

229   Increasing business                                                                                                           3/4/2021 11:02 PM

230   Community development                                                                                                         3/4/2021 11:00 PM



                                                                           12 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

231   Make sure we dont become like lehi and other cities where its filled with high density housing and traffic sucks                    3/4/2021 10:59 PM

232   Capitalize on the growth and set a vision for an innovative and harmonious future.                                                  3/4/2021 10:57 PM

233   Maintaining quiet streets while adding commercial and residential growth                                                            3/4/2021 10:56 PM

234   Access to grocery stores and restaurants                                                                                            3/4/2021 10:56 PM

235   Lack of businesses                                                                                                                  3/4/2021 10:55 PM

236   The lack of businesses such a restaurants and stores.                                                                               3/4/2021 10:54 PM

237   Lack of grocery store                                                                                                               3/4/2021 10:53 PM

238   Ensuring proper infrastructure for residential growth                                                                               3/4/2021 10:48 PM

239   More amenitites - grocery store, community center, restaurants                                                                      3/4/2021 10:48 PM

240   Safety for children, quality education, growth within and surrounding Bluffdale and keeping us unique and a change of pace          3/4/2021 10:45 PM
      for the rest of the county

241   Retail                                                                                                                              3/4/2021 10:44 PM

242   Traffic.                                                                                                                            3/4/2021 10:41 PM

243   More restaurants, grocery stores, etc.                                                                                              3/4/2021 10:35 PM

244   Bringing businesses to Bluffdale! We need a grocery store!                                                                          3/4/2021 10:34 PM

245   Grocery store                                                                                                                       3/4/2021 10:31 PM

246   Traffic                                                                                                                             3/4/2021 10:30 PM

247   Overdevelopment                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 10:30 PM

248   Growth is too rapid                                                                                                                 3/4/2021 10:28 PM

249   Land usage and growing communities                                                                                                  3/4/2021 10:25 PM

250   Grocery stores and transportation                                                                                                   3/4/2021 10:21 PM

251   Encroachment of Herriman into our property and streets.                                                                             3/4/2021 10:16 PM

252   It would be so nice to have restaurants and grocery stores nearby in our neighborhood.                                              3/4/2021 10:13 PM

253   Getting a Grocery store                                                                                                             3/4/2021 10:12 PM

254   Plan for growth with infrastructure. zoning for retail areas at major roads and offer TIF incentives to major retailers and allow   3/4/2021 10:08 PM
      them to pull in small businesses

255   Getting more businesses, grocery store, restaurants, etc...                                                                         3/4/2021 10:07 PM

256   The lack of retail businesses within the city                                                                                       3/4/2021 10:07 PM

257   Grocery store                                                                                                                       3/4/2021 10:06 PM


                                                                           13 / 110
                                                       Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

258   Responsible growth (commercial and residential)                                                                                       3/4/2021 10:00 PM

259   bringing retail businesses to offset property taxes, rec center for residents                                                         3/4/2021 10:00 PM

260   Addressing the Mink farm. Local shopping (ie grocery and convenience store)                                                           3/4/2021 9:58 PM

261   Get more retail, join the wasatch front in jobs and housing                                                                           3/4/2021 9:58 PM

262   Commercial development                                                                                                                3/4/2021 9:58 PM

263   Traffic flow and bringing in bigger businesses                                                                                        3/4/2021 9:56 PM

264   Traffic                                                                                                                               3/4/2021 9:54 PM

265   Retail to bring in additional tax revenue                                                                                             3/4/2021 9:49 PM

266   More roads in and out of bluffdale                                                                                                    3/4/2021 9:48 PM

267   Commercial development                                                                                                                3/4/2021 9:47 PM

268   Wider roads to accommodate the traffic.                                                                                               3/4/2021 9:47 PM

269   Traffic                                                                                                                               3/4/2021 9:44 PM

270   More retail in Bluffdale                                                                                                              3/4/2021 9:43 PM

271   Grocery store or gas station. Maybe try to figure out something about the dust                                                        3/4/2021 9:39 PM

272   Continuing to grow tax revenues by attracting more business.                                                                          3/4/2021 9:38 PM

273   Getting commercial businesses into the area sowe aren’t spending all our tax dollars outside the city. Make sure we are               3/4/2021 9:37 PM
      thinking big picture to keep pollution (traffic, noise, light, smog, etc) limited. Be the leader in recycling and green initiatives
      —look into the Living Future challenge way of thinking.

274   Retail (restaurants, grocery stores etc)                                                                                              3/4/2021 9:36 PM

275   Keep its appeal of small town and large lots. But also incorporate businesses, restaurants and grocery stores to help share           3/4/2021 9:35 PM
      tax load and keep money within the community. Don't screw it up like draper and herriman

276   Building smart and cleaning a real tax base so that home tax does not go up.                                                          3/4/2021 9:33 PM

277   What are we going to do about our population boom                                                                                     3/4/2021 9:25 PM

278   Traffic and commercial businesses                                                                                                     3/4/2021 9:23 PM

279   Traffic!!! Over population with lack of roads/travel needs.                                                                           3/4/2021 9:22 PM

280   To many wearhouses! We need buisnees that help community like a grocery                                                               3/4/2021 9:18 PM

281   Needs more commercial businesses. Grocery store, target, etc.                                                                         3/4/2021 9:18 PM

282   Keeping small town feel                                                                                                               3/4/2021 9:17 PM

283   Getting a new city council                                                                                                            3/4/2021 8:56 PM



                                                                            14 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

284   Pressure for higher density and attracting retail centers                                                                     3/4/2021 8:52 PM

285   Need more commercial                                                                                                          3/4/2021 8:47 PM

286   More retail needed                                                                                                            3/4/2021 8:46 PM

287   Access to retail and food                                                                                                     3/4/2021 8:45 PM

288   Handling the extreme growth that is happening (and especially will happen once the prison moves). Ensuring that Bluffdale's   3/4/2021 8:43 PM
      longtime residents and values are respected, while also being willing to grow, modernize, and improve the city.

289   Infrastructure and retail, especially a grocery store                                                                         3/4/2021 8:32 PM

290   Keeping the city safe with the large growth and ensuring infrastructure increases property value for residents.               3/4/2021 8:18 PM

291   No restaurants or shopping. Have to go to other cities.                                                                       3/4/2021 8:12 PM

292   Housing lot size. Luring retail to the city                                                                                   3/4/2021 8:02 PM

293   keeping one acre horse property                                                                                               3/4/2021 7:51 PM

294   Closer grocery store                                                                                                          3/4/2021 7:31 PM

295   There is no public transportation, grocery stores, or restaurants                                                             3/4/2021 6:37 PM

296   Getting more retail establishments                                                                                            3/4/2021 6:28 PM

297   Business growth to support taxes for city                                                                                     3/4/2021 6:07 PM

298   Keeping traffic low in residential areas.                                                                                     3/4/2021 6:03 PM

299   Making sure the neighborhoods are planned in a better/smarter way. Wider streets, less apartments.                            3/4/2021 5:53 PM

300   infrastructure issues (access to Hidden Valley Middle School). Consistent width of 2200 West (along Hatch and Elegante        3/4/2021 5:31 PM
      property).

301   Neighborhood Safety                                                                                                           3/4/2021 5:21 PM

302   Retail growth. A major grocery store in the city would be nice.                                                               3/4/2021 5:19 PM

303   Overcrowding/parking and/or no room for commercial real estate                                                                3/4/2021 5:03 PM

304   Keep open spaces, walking trails, safety                                                                                      3/4/2021 4:52 PM

305   Lack of retail                                                                                                                3/4/2021 4:30 PM

306   Traffic from I-15 funneling to redwood rd                                                                                     3/4/2021 4:01 PM

307   Thoughtfully providing affordable housing opportunities, road infrastructure, water use, and expanding the cemetery.          3/4/2021 4:00 PM

308   Traffic and infrastructure. Modernizing and re-zoning to replace industrial businesses for residential and other corporate    3/4/2021 3:55 PM
      interests. We have some of the most valuable real estate in all of UT sitting between Utah and SL County.

309   More commercial businesses. A grocery store would be nice.                                                                    3/4/2021 3:52 PM



                                                                          15 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

310   Proper growth. We need more retail options close by                                                                         3/4/2021 3:49 PM

311   Loss of wildlife habitat.                                                                                                   3/4/2021 3:48 PM

312   Road works. Managing traffic in and through the city. Balancing the old Blufdale residents with the needs of the new.       3/4/2021 3:36 PM

313   Small town mentality                                                                                                        3/4/2021 3:32 PM

314   Adding retail and grocery                                                                                                   3/4/2021 3:27 PM

315   Crowded streets, connecting paths to Jordan river parkway trail from Independence area.                                     3/4/2021 3:24 PM

316   A grocery store and having a different option other than 146th as a through-street to get to /from redwood                  3/4/2021 3:23 PM

317   There is no shopping. No grocery stores, no convenience stores, no food no entertainment. We should have some of that       3/4/2021 3:22 PM

318   Growth                                                                                                                      3/4/2021 3:15 PM

319   Commercial and retail sources of tax revenue.                                                                               3/4/2021 3:11 PM

320   Adding retail and dining.                                                                                                   3/4/2021 3:06 PM

321   Avoid getting over crowded                                                                                                  3/4/2021 3:05 PM

322   Affordable housing, schools, restaurants. The new park is amazing                                                           3/4/2021 2:56 PM

323   Not giving into developers who want high density housing. We don’t want to be Herriman or Lehi!                             3/4/2021 2:53 PM

324   Too many residents and not enough services                                                                                  3/4/2021 2:50 PM

325   Needs more restaurants!                                                                                                     3/4/2021 2:46 PM

326   Bringing in businesses (restaurants, grocery, etc)                                                                          3/4/2021 2:45 PM

327   Improving it's tax base                                                                                                     3/4/2021 2:44 PM

328   Commercial businesses! We do all our shopping outside of Bluffdale. it would also be awesome if Bluffdale had a library.    3/4/2021 2:42 PM

329   Commercial Development/Grocery store and ingress/egress out of neighborhoods off Redwood Road                               3/4/2021 2:38 PM

330   Traffic                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 2:34 PM

331   Balancing growth with economic necessity and the challenge to not grow too fast                                             3/4/2021 2:12 PM

332   Getting commercial here!                                                                                                    3/4/2021 2:08 PM

333   Bringing money into the city                                                                                                3/4/2021 2:05 PM

334   Getting more businesses                                                                                                     3/4/2021 2:01 PM

335   More commercial business ie restaurants and shopping. Infrastructure regarding roads. I feel this has been manged poorly.   3/4/2021 1:59 PM
      Keep building houses with roads that cannot support

336   Roads/traffic                                                                                                               3/4/2021 1:58 PM



                                                                        16 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

337   Getting grocery and retail stores to balance things out (including the budget).                                         3/4/2021 1:55 PM

338   Less high density housing, more amenities for residents                                                                 3/4/2021 1:46 PM

339   Smart controlled growth, limiting being an east-wear thoroughfare                                                       3/4/2021 1:43 PM

340   Grocery Store, more commercial, better park maintenance in Springview Farms, doggy poop stands along the trail in       3/4/2021 1:42 PM
      Springview Farms

341   It would be nice to have our own grocery store.                                                                         3/4/2021 1:41 PM

342   More options for retail/restaurant/entertainment options                                                                3/4/2021 1:40 PM

343   Businesses when the prison leaves. And expanding the road that goes under the bridge by the roundabout and prison.      3/4/2021 1:39 PM

344   Grocery store                                                                                                           3/4/2021 1:37 PM

345   Urban sprawl                                                                                                            3/4/2021 1:36 PM

346   Less high density housing                                                                                               3/4/2021 1:33 PM

347   Bringing in more commercial establishments                                                                              3/4/2021 1:30 PM

348   Addition of retail, building 14600 S better including paved trail next to road                                          3/4/2021 1:30 PM

349   Growth                                                                                                                  3/4/2021 1:29 PM

350   Maintain Country feel while embracing growth.                                                                           3/4/2021 1:26 PM

351   Grocery/casual dining                                                                                                   3/4/2021 1:25 PM

352   Stopping commercial and residential growth. Keeping Bluffdale rural.                                                    3/4/2021 1:21 PM

353   The traffic on 14600 South                                                                                              3/4/2021 1:18 PM

354   development. Particularly commercial and retail                                                                         3/4/2021 1:17 PM

355   We need a grocery store!                                                                                                3/4/2021 1:14 PM

356   More stores needed                                                                                                      3/4/2021 1:06 PM

357   Infrastructure and grocery                                                                                              3/4/2021 12:58 PM

358   Economic Development and growth                                                                                         3/4/2021 12:40 PM

359   Growth                                                                                                                  3/4/2021 12:35 PM

360   Street lights street sizes conditions. Cleanliness residential road side parking. Commercial real estate availability   3/4/2021 9:54 AM

361   Retail, we need a grocery store, always having to drive to a different city is not convenient                           3/3/2021 10:20 PM

362   Staying family oriented                                                                                                 3/3/2021 4:44 PM

363   Preserving the uniqueness of the city, transportation routes                                                            3/3/2021 3:04 PM



                                                                           17 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

364   Bridging the geographical, socio-economic, and cultural divide                                                         3/3/2021 2:26 PM

365   impact of incoming commercial w/ digital signage                                                                       3/3/2021 1:00 PM

366   Keep only 1 acre or more lost don’t acquiesce to diving Bluffdale like Riverton did                                    3/2/2021 12:45 PM

367   Zoning Changes and traffic challenges                                                                                  3/2/2021 11:54 AM

368   Not enough commercial on Redwood road                                                                                  3/1/2021 2:30 PM

369   wise business development                                                                                              3/1/2021 2:05 PM

370   Traffic                                                                                                                3/1/2021 12:34 PM

371   Losing the small town feel.                                                                                            3/1/2021 11:12 AM

372   keeping small town & still progress                                                                                    2/28/2021 3:02 PM

373   Inviting retailers                                                                                                     2/25/2021 10:43 PM

374   How to grow the town, but still maintain the small town feel                                                           2/25/2021 4:28 PM

375   Grocery                                                                                                                2/25/2021 12:09 AM

376   Controlling growth and maintaining animal rights                                                                       2/24/2021 11:09 PM

377   Keeping one-acre lots protected!                                                                                       2/24/2021 5:56 PM

378   Growth (and access to 1to 2 acre parcels) and infrastructure                                                           2/23/2021 3:51 PM

379   We are growing at a rapid pace and have too much dense residential options and almost zero commercial options in the   2/23/2021 12:36 PM
      neighborhood.

380   Getting enough shopping options                                                                                        2/22/2021 10:20 PM

381   Maintaining its unique country atmosphere under the pressure of builders/homeowners who have no appreciation for it    2/22/2021 7:27 PM

382   keeping the small town family feel while progressing                                                                   2/21/2021 4:18 PM

383   Retail                                                                                                                 2/19/2021 11:31 PM

384   bringing stores and restaurant's to our city                                                                           2/19/2021 8:14 PM

385   Growth                                                                                                                 2/19/2021 7:49 PM

386   Attracting retail or grocery                                                                                           2/19/2021 7:08 PM

387   maintaining 1 acer lots                                                                                                2/19/2021 6:48 PM

388   Minimizing growth                                                                                                      2/19/2021 6:39 PM

389   Preservation of agricultural land.                                                                                     2/19/2021 2:49 PM

390   Tax Revenues                                                                                                           2/19/2021 2:47 PM



                                                                         18 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

391   Commercial business taxes, Traffic, light Pollution                                                                        2/18/2021 3:23 PM

392   NO commercial / High Residentioal West of Redwood Road                                                                     2/17/2021 5:26 PM

393   Keeping out greedy developers                                                                                              2/17/2021 11:16 AM

394   Growth - and the related expenses and problems                                                                             2/16/2021 7:23 PM

395   The road under the trestle do it can handle more traffic prior to moving the prison.                                       2/15/2021 2:24 PM

396   Keeping the west side of Bluffdale Rural and respecting existing residents rights over development.                        2/15/2021 1:53 PM

397   The proliferation of multi-unit homes.                                                                                     2/14/2021 10:38 AM

398   Not to make it so crowded. We moved here to live more rural and not have so many homes and multi family homes around.      2/14/2021 6:59 AM
      We love the property and the open space around us and don’t want to see more growth of smaller property. Stay small. And
      different from all the other big cities around us. That is why we moved from Sandy

399   Keeping Bluffdale rural with a country atmosphere.                                                                         2/12/2021 11:13 PM

400   Canal access                                                                                                               2/12/2021 6:47 PM

401   Roads/Bringing Businesses to Bluffdale quickly!                                                                            2/12/2021 10:30 AM

402   Roads & traffic problems due to residential growth                                                                         2/11/2021 11:40 PM

403   Roads, building                                                                                                            2/11/2021 7:29 PM

404   Infrastructure                                                                                                             2/11/2021 7:07 AM

405   keeping 1 acre lots and growing to fast                                                                                    2/10/2021 10:35 PM

406   Not caving to pressure when it comes to one acre lots. I feel like currently that is what the city leaders are doing.      2/10/2021 10:16 PM

407   Growth/development versus staying rural                                                                                    2/10/2021 2:26 PM

408   Housing and business growth in the "old-town Bluffdale" area. Need to keep single homes built on one acre lots.            2/10/2021 10:48 AM

409   Bringing in commercial real estate                                                                                         2/9/2021 9:49 PM

410   Addition of fast food restaurants                                                                                          2/9/2021 7:02 PM

411   Bringing more retail                                                                                                       2/9/2021 5:02 PM

412   Getting Winco to build here!                                                                                               2/9/2021 2:34 PM

413   More amenities - grocery stores, restaurants, etc.                                                                         2/9/2021 1:15 PM

414   Growth-widening roads and bringing in retail                                                                               2/9/2021 11:07 AM

415   Infrastructure                                                                                                             2/9/2021 10:43 AM

416   Maintain its country atmosphere and large lots amid outside pressures for higher density.                                  2/9/2021 8:45 AM

417   Infrastructure                                                                                                             2/8/2021 9:54 PM


                                                                          19 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

418   Addition of businesses local to Bluffdale; grocery stores, entertainment                                                  2/8/2021 9:09 PM

419   Keeping an appropriate balance between the 1-5 acre lot areas, higher density, affordable housing, open space and         2/8/2021 8:56 PM
      business development

420   Poor internet Speeds/Options                                                                                              2/8/2021 8:30 PM

421   Getting retail businesses like grocery stores and shopping center                                                         2/8/2021 8:14 PM

422   Property taxes, economic development                                                                                      2/8/2021 6:34 PM

423   Growth. Too fast                                                                                                          2/8/2021 6:16 PM

424   Retail and transportation                                                                                                 2/8/2021 5:52 PM

425   Blocking traffic from Herriman                                                                                            2/8/2021 5:34 PM

426   Nearby shopping shortage and need for a dog park                                                                          2/8/2021 5:24 PM

427   Car-dependent neighborhoods                                                                                               2/8/2021 5:24 PM

428   Solid planning for land not already built out. Solid, legal definitions to land designations, such as “mixed use.”        2/8/2021 3:37 PM

429   A town center with grocery store and restaurants. You can’t have a community without a town center with a grocery store   2/8/2021 3:27 PM
      and restaurants

430   Residential growth without commercial development to improve the tax base                                                 2/8/2021 9:21 AM

431   Shopping centers.                                                                                                         2/8/2021 8:04 AM

432   Districting council members. Taxes                                                                                        2/8/2021 6:01 AM

433   amenities - there are few businesses in the older part of town                                                            2/8/2021 1:01 AM

434   Housing cost and lack of groceries                                                                                        2/7/2021 9:40 PM

435   The need for a grocery store and more parking in residential areas                                                        2/7/2021 9:28 PM

436   We need closer/better access to grocery stores and restaurants.                                                           2/7/2021 3:21 PM

437   Lack of grocery and essential commercial development                                                                      2/7/2021 3:02 PM

438   There are no services nearby (especially groceries and gyms)                                                              2/7/2021 2:38 PM

439   Growth and responsible business.                                                                                          2/7/2021 2:26 PM

440   Responsible Business                                                                                                      2/7/2021 2:20 PM

441   Commercial growth                                                                                                         2/7/2021 7:50 AM

442   Small Roads and lack of businesses                                                                                        2/7/2021 6:59 AM

443   GROCERY STORE AND LESS HOUSES                                                                                             2/6/2021 11:52 PM

444   Not to connect neighborhood roads to Herriman.                                                                            2/6/2021 11:43 PM


                                                                           20 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


445   Transportation and public safety                                                                                                         2/6/2021 10:12 PM

446   Roads and acces                                                                                                                          2/6/2021 9:19 PM

447   Lack of grocery stores, restaurants and retail shopping                                                                                  2/6/2021 9:04 PM

448   Overdevelopment of homes with out supporting businesses                                                                                  2/6/2021 9:03 PM

449   how to not deal with outside pressure to develop all of its land. Vitally important to maintain large lots so there is diversity in      2/6/2021 8:24 PM
      the Salt Lake Valley. It is the only place you can still find acre lots. Please preserve this and don’t succumb to the
      pressures and over populate the city. The other concern is that some retail needs to come to the area to offset the taxes in
      the long term. Greater effort should be made to attract business to the area off Bangater and Redwood Road.

450   Traffic...14600 south, infrastructure, shopping/grocery stores,                                                                          2/6/2021 7:54 PM

451   Mink Farm                                                                                                                                2/6/2021 6:03 PM

452   keeping its country feel, it is unique and a large attraction to the area, sacrificing it now will turn it into just another suburb of   2/6/2021 5:32 PM
      the valley and it will loose its uniqueness

453   The damn railroad bridge for crying out loud!                                                                                            2/6/2021 5:10 PM

454   Lack of grocery store                                                                                                                    2/6/2021 4:24 PM

455   Retail and commercial development                                                                                                        2/6/2021 3:54 PM

456   Traffic under the railroad tracks                                                                                                        2/6/2021 3:49 PM

457   No grocery stories or restaurants                                                                                                        2/6/2021 3:31 PM

458   Growth management                                                                                                                        2/6/2021 3:30 PM

459   More shopping / less industrial                                                                                                          2/6/2021 2:56 PM

460   City Council and planning commission. Through the efforts and desire to be like every other city in the Salt Lake Valley,                2/6/2021 2:47 PM
      Crime and pollution has increased. Bluffdale was designed to be unique and semi-rural. Unfortunately, the desire to obtain
      funds has changed the reason people moved to Bluffdale.

461   We NEED our own grocery store.                                                                                                           2/6/2021 2:45 PM

462   More shops/restaurants readily available and closer to new development                                                                   2/6/2021 2:25 PM

463   The lack of retail                                                                                                                       2/6/2021 2:24 PM

464   High density housing                                                                                                                     2/6/2021 2:23 PM

465   Minimizing heavier traffic through our city and development of prison site land                                                          2/6/2021 1:54 PM

466   keeping taxes low                                                                                                                        2/6/2021 1:21 PM

467   How to grow in a logical fashion, that is, not take the first and easiest option on anything, but make sure we're doing what's           2/6/2021 1:09 PM
      best. Seems that's been a problem in the past, and is how we have all these blasted warehouses.




                                                                             21 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

468   Building grocery stores in the city                                                                                       2/6/2021 1:07 PM

469   Traffic and business quantity/growth needs                                                                                2/6/2021 1:02 PM

470   We need a grocery store that’s closer than 15/20 minutes away.                                                            2/6/2021 12:24 PM

471   Responsible growth                                                                                                        2/6/2021 11:44 AM

472   Independence area values vs. west Bluffdale values                                                                        2/6/2021 11:38 AM

473   Increasing the number of business in Bluffdale                                                                            2/6/2021 11:18 AM

474   Commerce                                                                                                                  2/6/2021 11:11 AM

475   Adding businesses like grocery stores. Manufacturing and warehouses are such an eyesore and add so little value (to the   2/6/2021 11:05 AM
      residents, at least)

476   Grocery Stores and more pickle ball courts                                                                                2/6/2021 10:59 AM

477   There is really no restraunts or grocery stores                                                                           2/6/2021 10:51 AM

478   Traffic and getting some grocery stores and restaurants                                                                   2/6/2021 10:50 AM

479   Widen road at trestle                                                                                                     2/6/2021 10:45 AM

480   Retail stores                                                                                                             2/6/2021 10:39 AM

481   Traffic                                                                                                                   2/6/2021 10:36 AM

482   The bridge underpass on 14600s                                                                                            2/6/2021 10:33 AM

483   More business for tax revenue                                                                                             2/6/2021 10:24 AM

484   Brining business to bluffdale. Roads to handle growth                                                                     2/6/2021 10:12 AM

485   Increasing commercial businesses. Grocery store, restaurants, and retail.                                                 2/6/2021 10:07 AM

486   We need food options and grocery stores closer. Specifically at independence at the point.                                2/6/2021 10:05 AM

487   Building a grocery store closer                                                                                           2/6/2021 10:01 AM

488   Getting a grocery store                                                                                                   2/6/2021 10:00 AM

489   Retail needs. We have so much industrial space but we could really use a grocery store                                    2/6/2021 9:46 AM

490   Business growth, taxes, adding more stop lights, sidewalks.                                                               2/6/2021 9:39 AM

491   Grocery stores or shops added closer to 14600S (Bluffdale Boulevard)                                                      2/6/2021 9:36 AM

492   Retail business                                                                                                           2/6/2021 9:29 AM

493   Getting a local grocery store                                                                                             2/6/2021 9:27 AM

494   Getting some restaurants or a grocery store. All my sales taxes go to Draper and Riverton right now.                      2/6/2021 9:16 AM



                                                                        22 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

495   Traffic                                                                                                                          2/6/2021 9:13 AM

496   Needs a closer grocery store                                                                                                     2/6/2021 9:05 AM

497   Roads, Parks and Tax revenue from businesses                                                                                     2/6/2021 9:04 AM

498   Grocery stores and shopping                                                                                                      2/6/2021 8:56 AM

499   Keeping open space and 1 acre lots. People move here for the space and land. No more small properties.                           2/6/2021 8:56 AM

500   Too much growth, Noise Pollution, commercial residents in neighborhoods, Dangerous speeding , not enough Police                  2/6/2021 8:55 AM

501   Traffic                                                                                                                          2/6/2021 8:45 AM

502   Adding street lamps                                                                                                              2/6/2021 8:45 AM

503   No retail space. No grocery stores.                                                                                              2/6/2021 8:40 AM

504   Adding restaurants, entertainment                                                                                                2/6/2021 8:22 AM

505   Accommodating new growth (housing, open spaces, roads)                                                                           2/6/2021 8:05 AM

506   Through traffic and over development of residential homes.                                                                       2/6/2021 7:57 AM

507   Lack of businesses                                                                                                               2/6/2021 7:53 AM

508   No grocery stores close by                                                                                                       2/6/2021 7:41 AM

509   Adding retail sites and improving roads.                                                                                         2/6/2021 7:18 AM

510   Need more commercial growth                                                                                                      2/6/2021 6:43 AM

511   The trestle                                                                                                                      2/6/2021 6:27 AM

512   Attract retail — especially a grocery store!                                                                                     2/6/2021 5:12 AM

513   The traffic that will be coming from the prison changed to shopping and mall... it’s a one lane road. Also, there is no retail   2/6/2021 1:18 AM
      space here

514   Traffic backing up on 146 heading east waiting to go north on the I-15                                                           2/6/2021 1:04 AM

515   Fiber internet options                                                                                                           2/6/2021 12:50 AM

516   Growth of the city.                                                                                                              2/6/2021 12:13 AM

517   Property tax. Please bring in some retail like grocery stores and restaurants,                                                   2/5/2021 11:52 PM

518   Bring in shopping that can help bring money into our city and ease the tax burden of homeowners.                                 2/5/2021 11:50 PM

519   Services to meet new residential development                                                                                     2/5/2021 11:29 PM

520   Property taxes                                                                                                                   2/5/2021 11:14 PM

521   Maintaining roads and traffic.                                                                                                   2/5/2021 11:10 PM



                                                                          23 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

522   The bridge/ train goes over                                                                                                       2/5/2021 11:05 PM

523   Adding businesses                                                                                                                 2/5/2021 10:46 PM

524   Shopping access in bluffdale                                                                                                      2/5/2021 10:44 PM

525   Congestion of homes/traffic                                                                                                       2/5/2021 10:43 PM

526   Traffic and there are no merchants in bluffdale to keep them money in our community                                               2/5/2021 10:27 PM

527   grocery store please                                                                                                              2/5/2021 10:27 PM

528   Not having proper roadways for increased traffic                                                                                  2/5/2021 10:23 PM

529   Business growth other than dentists, gas stations and banks                                                                       2/5/2021 10:21 PM

530   Growth                                                                                                                            2/5/2021 10:15 PM

531   Creating a retail tax base                                                                                                        2/5/2021 10:15 PM

532   Adding retail                                                                                                                     2/5/2021 10:08 PM

533   Managing growth                                                                                                                   2/5/2021 10:04 PM

534   Keeping the country, agricultural feel of our great city! Don’t fall into the HDH trap that our surrounding cities have. We are   2/5/2021 10:03 PM
      the last of the country living

535   Traffic due to increased housing                                                                                                  2/5/2021 10:02 PM

536   Bring in retail business                                                                                                          2/5/2021 9:56 PM

537   Traffic grocery more retail                                                                                                       2/5/2021 9:49 PM

538   Developing the right commerical                                                                                                   2/5/2021 9:49 PM

539   Retail (need for grocery stores, etc.)                                                                                            2/5/2021 9:45 PM

540   Traffic from the freeway on 14600s.                                                                                               2/5/2021 9:28 PM

541   Getting businesses/retail to open here                                                                                            2/5/2021 9:25 PM

542   Lack of retail and a main grocery store along redwood                                                                             2/5/2021 9:23 PM

543   To have good sustainable development                                                                                              2/5/2021 9:21 PM

544   Loosing the self sufficient country lifestyle                                                                                     2/5/2021 9:17 PM

545   Creating business sales tax base                                                                                                  2/5/2021 9:13 PM

546   One lane bridge on 146th south                                                                                                    2/5/2021 9:12 PM

547   Grocery store and small business options                                                                                          2/5/2021 9:04 PM

548   Tax revenue. Keeping property taxes as low as possible                                                                            2/5/2021 9:01 PM



                                                                           24 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

549   Planned growth.                                                                                            2/5/2021 8:55 PM

550   Construction                                                                                               2/5/2021 8:52 PM

551   Restaurants, grocery stores, etc                                                                           2/5/2021 8:52 PM

552   Public transportation and grocery stores                                                                   2/5/2021 8:50 PM

553   Bring in business that we have been waiting for...ie: Smiths that was going in at Redwood and Bangerter.   2/5/2021 8:37 PM

554   Congestion and New Business                                                                                2/5/2021 8:31 PM

555   High density housing                                                                                       2/5/2021 8:30 PM

556   Smart growth                                                                                               2/5/2021 8:27 PM

557   Grocery, shopping, traffic                                                                                 2/5/2021 8:22 PM

558   Traffic coming into Bluffdale from the freeway or going to the freeway. Too much of it.                    2/5/2021 8:14 PM

559   Traffic, housing                                                                                           2/5/2021 8:12 PM

560   Affordable housing options                                                                                 2/5/2021 8:10 PM

561   Growth                                                                                                     2/5/2021 8:09 PM

562   Growth and tax revenue                                                                                     2/5/2021 8:08 PM

563   Increasing tax base to provide better services                                                             2/5/2021 7:55 PM

564   Preparing infrastructure, roads, parks and paths to service the ever increasing population.                2/5/2021 7:39 PM

565   Growth and too much high density in and nearby                                                             2/5/2021 7:30 PM

566   Over population                                                                                            2/5/2021 7:19 PM

567   Keeping multi family dwellings to a minimum                                                                2/5/2021 7:07 PM

568   Exploding population growth                                                                                2/5/2021 7:07 PM

569   Attracting business                                                                                        2/5/2021 6:50 PM

570   Fix the bridge bottleneck on 147th. Also would be nice to have a grocery store or two.                     2/5/2021 6:18 PM

571   To many people                                                                                             2/5/2021 6:13 PM

572   Getting more retail and restaurants to come                                                                2/5/2021 5:53 PM

573   Growth management and planning                                                                             2/5/2021 5:50 PM

574   Retail and food options                                                                                    2/5/2021 5:44 PM

575   Commercial development                                                                                     2/5/2021 5:44 PM

576   Need for retail businesses and affordable housing                                                          2/5/2021 5:29 PM



                                                                         25 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

577   Don’t expand high density housing                                                                                               2/5/2021 5:25 PM

578   Expensive housing                                                                                                               2/5/2021 5:17 PM

579   146th and widening that road and the bridge                                                                                     2/5/2021 5:16 PM

580   Economic development on the east side of the city                                                                               2/5/2021 5:10 PM

581   Shopping/restaurants and traffic                                                                                                2/5/2021 5:09 PM

582   Increasing taxes and lack of commercial business to offset                                                                      2/5/2021 5:03 PM

583   Improving 14600 S and adding commercial/retail/dining options                                                                   2/5/2021 5:03 PM

584   Controlling overly rapid growth and Roads                                                                                       2/5/2021 4:59 PM

585   Bringing in business                                                                                                            2/5/2021 4:55 PM

586   Getting the right business for growth and traffic.                                                                              2/5/2021 4:55 PM

587   Traffic                                                                                                                         2/5/2021 4:45 PM

588   Shopping and dining available within city limits. Managing and benefiting from the growth of the Point (prison site).           2/5/2021 10:20 AM

589   Shopping and 14600 South                                                                                                        2/4/2021 8:29 PM

590   Need commercial/businesses                                                                                                      2/4/2021 8:16 PM

591   Adding commercial options and ensuring sales tax is utilized wisely                                                             2/4/2021 8:10 PM

592   Keeping natural green spaces and interlocking trails for foot and horse use                                                     2/4/2021 7:07 PM

593   Traffic and housing density                                                                                                     2/4/2021 6:03 PM

594   Transportation                                                                                                                  2/4/2021 5:57 PM

595   Infrastructure to support the growing population                                                                                2/4/2021 5:36 PM

596   Economic & Recreation Development                                                                                               2/4/2021 10:34 AM

597   Growth and finances. Growth is necessary, but must be controlled so that it has as little impact on the quality of life as      2/3/2021 10:53 AM
      possible, a goal which our neighboring cities have not accomplished very well. Bluffdale is a rare gem in the Salt Lake
      Valley.

598   Keeping up with the large amount of growth in Bluffdale and surrounding areas.                                                  2/1/2021 3:56 PM

599   Keeping the remainder of Bluffdale rural, not interested in higher density communities, Retaining 1 acre min. Lot size          1/27/2021 5:15 PM

600   I believe the biggest challenge Bluffdale faces is in preserving its unique qualities of being an equestrian friendly town. I   1/27/2021 9:25 AM
      think managing growth (keeping it in certain areas) and maintaining quality of life for 1-acre lots is critical.

601   Housing                                                                                                                         1/26/2021 5:53 PM




                                                                           26 / 110
                                              Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




Q4 How should the City prioritize the following types of improvements? (Drag item to rank them in
                                    order of importance to you)
                                                      Answered: 608   Skipped: 12


                             Road
                     improvements

                    Sidewalks/Trail
                                 s

                        Incentivize
                     investment i...


                            Parks


                         Access to
                          public...

                        Safe bicycle
                     infrastructure

                     More housing
                          options

                                      0   1      2     3      4       5     6       7   8   9   10




                                                             27 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

                                               1             2              3             4             5             6             7             TOTAL     SCORE
Road improvements                                  23.47%        21.32%         20.66%        14.55%        12.56%         6.12%         1.32%
                                                       142           129            125            88            76            37            8        605      5.05

Sidewalks/Trails                                   16.39%        25.83%         22.68%        18.54%         9.27%         5.96%         1.32%
                                                        99           156            137           112            56            36            8        604      4.98

Incentivize investment in commercial centers       38.44%        14.64%          7.15%         8.32%         8.82%        13.48%         9.15%
                                                       231            88             43            50            53            81            55       601      4.89

Parks                                              11.11%        21.23%         25.87%        18.74%        13.43%         4.81%         4.81%
                                                        67           128            156           113            81            29            29       603      4.64

Access to public transportation                     4.83%         7.65%          9.65%        16.14%        25.79%        22.30%        13.64%
                                                        29            46             58            97           155           134            82       601      3.28

Safe bicycle infrastructure                         2.97%         6.44%          9.08%        17.00%        18.81%        22.28%        23.43%
                                                        18            39             55           103           114           135           142       606      2.97

More housing options                                3.17%         3.01%          5.18%         7.01%        10.68%        24.87%        46.08%
                                                        19            18             31            42            64           149           276       599      2.22




                                                                           28 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




    Q5 What types of activities/ destinations would you like to see more of in Bluffdale? (Check all
                                              that apply)
                                                              Answered: 608    Skipped: 12



                             Grocery and
                            Retail Stores


                               Dining and
                            Social Spaces


                             Public Park
                                  Space



                            Event Spaces



                            Oﬃce Spaces



                                           0%   10%     20%   30%   40%       50%   60%      70%     80%    90% 100%



ANSWER CHOICES                                                                                     RESPONSES

Grocery and Retail Stores                                                                          88.82%              540

Dining and Social Spaces                                                                           85.03%              517

Public Park Space                                                                                  46.71%              284

Event Spaces                                                                                       14.97%              91

Office Spaces                                                                                      8.88%               54

Total Respondents: 608




                                                                     29 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

#    OTHER (PLEASE SPECIFY)                                                                                                           DATE
1    Recreation Center                                                                                                                3/14/2021 9:08 PM

2    Open space                                                                                                                       3/13/2021 3:42 PM

3    Mountain bike trails                                                                                                             3/9/2021 7:43 PM

4    Bigger and better rodeo grounds                                                                                                  3/8/2021 3:00 PM

5    Recreational Center                                                                                                              3/8/2021 10:49 AM

6    Recreation Center with swimming pools, soccer fields, tennis courts, etc.                                                        3/8/2021 10:18 AM

7    Tennis courts                                                                                                                    3/8/2021 9:37 AM

8    Trails and more parks!!!!                                                                                                        3/7/2021 8:40 PM

9    I really really love kids topia. But it’s far too small for the amount of crowds they attract. More things open on Sunday!!!!!   3/6/2021 10:46 PM

10   Hospitality businesses, restaurants, continue to plan ahead when the prison relocates                                            3/6/2021 10:24 PM

11   Rec center                                                                                                                       3/6/2021 12:50 AM

12   Grocery store! For heaven sake a Grocery store!                                                                                  3/5/2021 6:33 PM

13   Just a grocery store. Not walmart                                                                                                3/5/2021 2:24 PM

14   Open space!                                                                                                                      3/5/2021 10:05 AM

15   With respect to not forgetting what B town is... open spaces, wiggle room,                                                       3/5/2021 9:30 AM

16   Rec Center                                                                                                                       3/5/2021 9:08 AM

17   This seems like a baiting question to use against residents in future zoning plans.                                              3/5/2021 9:07 AM

18   Dog park                                                                                                                         3/5/2021 7:24 AM

19   Recreation Center, Public Library.                                                                                               3/5/2021 7:15 AM

20   A lake/swimming area                                                                                                             3/5/2021 6:58 AM

21   Small local grocery                                                                                                              3/5/2021 6:58 AM

22   Music Amphitheatre                                                                                                               3/5/2021 1:37 AM

23   Community center, library, sports facility                                                                                       3/5/2021 12:07 AM

24   City library, rec sports for kids                                                                                                3/5/2021 12:03 AM

25   Dog parks                                                                                                                        3/4/2021 11:28 PM

26   No more industrial/warehouse space!!!!!!!!                                                                                       3/4/2021 11:06 PM

27   Bars, coffee, large outdoor music venue                                                                                          3/4/2021 10:57 PM


                                                                          30 / 110
                                                   Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

28   Rec Center                                                                                                                   3/4/2021 10:00 PM

29   Jr jazz                                                                                                                      3/4/2021 9:44 PM

30   Frisbee golf park                                                                                                            3/4/2021 9:33 PM

31   Rec center                                                                                                                   3/4/2021 9:25 PM

32   Pickleball courts, soccer fields, etc.                                                                                       3/4/2021 9:22 PM

33   Voting out the city council                                                                                                  3/4/2021 8:56 PM

34   Please stop with all the parks. Small cities can't afford them.                                                              3/4/2021 8:47 PM

35   Smith's Grocery or Trader Joes                                                                                               3/4/2021 5:31 PM

36   Recreation centers                                                                                                           3/4/2021 3:23 PM

37   An outdoor track                                                                                                             3/4/2021 2:05 PM

38   Youth sports                                                                                                                 3/4/2021 1:37 PM

39   We need a grocery store!                                                                                                     3/4/2021 1:14 PM

40   clean trails (no puncture vines) for recreating and more open spaces, trails to ride horses to equestrian park               3/3/2021 3:04 PM

41   walking trail system                                                                                                         3/3/2021 1:00 PM

42   None of the above                                                                                                            2/24/2021 11:09 PM

43   none of the above. keep it residetial                                                                                        2/19/2021 6:48 PM

44   Keep the land open for livestock                                                                                             2/19/2021 6:39 PM

45   Open Land to stay                                                                                                            2/17/2021 5:26 PM

46   reductuion in industrial spaces.                                                                                             2/14/2021 10:38 AM

47   More open space and horse trails                                                                                             2/14/2021 6:59 AM

48   Open space, rural atmosphere                                                                                                 2/12/2021 11:13 PM

49   Volleyball rec                                                                                                               2/9/2021 2:34 PM

50   Equestrian Facilities                                                                                                        2/8/2021 8:30 PM

51   DOG PARK AREA                                                                                                                2/8/2021 5:24 PM

52   Large and accommodating athletic centers!!!                                                                                  2/7/2021 2:38 PM

53   equestrian friendly spaces                                                                                                   2/6/2021 5:32 PM

54   None of those. We did not move here for that. One can live in any city and get those things. But only in Bluffdale can one   2/6/2021 5:23 PM
     get breathing room. Please keep those "activities and destinations" as far away from us as possible.



                                                                        31 / 110
                                                   Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

55   keep the rural feeling alive. We are close enough to all the items that we do not need to develop commercial concerns.      2/6/2021 2:47 PM

56   Event spaces such as parks, soccer fields, etc.                                                                             2/6/2021 1:54 PM

57   Definitely NOT office spaces                                                                                                2/6/2021 11:44 AM

58   We currently drive 15 minutes to Walmart. I can’t tell you how much we’ve spent at Maverick in the last 8 months!           2/6/2021 11:05 AM

59   Grocery and Dining for heck sake!!!                                                                                         2/6/2021 10:39 AM

60   I would prefer less businesses and more social and dining centers                                                           2/6/2021 9:36 AM

61   No more warehouses                                                                                                          2/6/2021 9:16 AM

62   Recreational center for Families!                                                                                           2/6/2021 8:55 AM

63   An actual town area. Not just spread out buildings.                                                                         2/5/2021 9:28 PM

64   Equestrian                                                                                                                  2/5/2021 8:31 PM

65   Library                                                                                                                     2/5/2021 8:10 PM

66   High quality golf course                                                                                                    2/5/2021 7:39 PM

67   Keep rural, herriman has shopping                                                                                           1/27/2021 5:15 PM

68   Maintained horse trails that lead to riding spaces. I like the idea of a grocery store at the Redwood/Bangerter junction.   1/27/2021 9:25 AM




                                                                         32 / 110
                                               Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




Q6 How important to Bluffdale's quality of life are the following factors?(Drag item to rank them in
                                         order of priority)
                                                        Answered: 616       Skipped: 4


                        Convenient
                         Shopping

                       Public Safety
                       and Security

                      Parks & Open
                      Space Access

                      Transportation
                             Access

                               Job
                      Opportunities

                           Cultural
                          Activities

                         Aﬀordable
                    Housing Choices

                                       0   1      2     3      4        5         6      7   8   9   10




                                                               33 / 110
                                               Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

                             1             2             3             4              5             6             7             TOTAL         SCORE
Convenient Shopping              34.70%        24.71%        15.22%         10.97%         5.89%         5.89%         2.62%
                                     212           151            93             67            36            36            16           611           5.43

Public Safety and Security       35.24%        20.23%        13.87%         14.19%         6.53%         6.20%         3.75%
                                     216           124            85             87            40            38            23           613           5.30

Parks & Open Space Access        17.46%        25.21%        20.92%         15.16%        11.53%         6.92%         2.80%
                                     106           153           127             92            70            42            17           607           4.90

Transportation Access             4.62%        10.56%        16.17%         21.45%        20.13%        16.34%        10.73%
                                      28            64            98            130           122            99            65           606           3.66

Job Opportunities                 3.30%         8.75%        13.70%         15.18%        20.79%        22.44%        15.84%
                                      20            53            83             92           126           136            96           606           3.28

Cultural Activities               0.99%         6.41%        15.46%         12.99%        18.91%        19.57%        25.66%
                                      6             39            94             79           115           119           156           608           2.96

Affordable Housing Choices        4.47%         4.14%         4.47%          9.77%        16.06%        22.52%        38.58%
                                      27            25            27             59            97           136           233           604           2.49




                                                                 34 / 110
                              Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




Q7 In your opinion, how important to Bluffdale’s future are the following factors?
                                       Answered: 618     Skipped: 2




           Access to Open
            Space (parks...




               Residential
           Neighborhoods




            Diverse Mix of
           Business Types




               Walkability




                                              35 / 110
                            Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


Transportation
    Network...




     Cultural
    Activities




 Job Creation




 Aﬀordability
  of Housing




                 0%   10%      20%   30%   40%   50%   60%   70%     80%   90% 100%



                 unimportant     neutral   important




                                           36 / 110
                                            Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

                                          UNIMPORTANT             NEUTRAL             IMPORTANT         TOTAL         WEIGHTED AVERAGE
Access to Open Space (parks, trails)                    1.95%               13.47%            84.58%
                                                            12                   83               521           616                      2.83

Residential Neighborhoods                               4.24%               27.24%            68.52%
                                                            26                  167               420           613                      2.64

Diverse Mix of Business Types                           9.27%               26.02%            64.72%
                                                            57                  160               398           615                      2.55

Walkability                                             8.27%               32.58%            59.16%
                                                            51                  201               365           617                      2.51

Transportation Network (streets, buses)                 9.11%               33.01%            57.89%
                                                            56                  203               356           615                      2.49

Cultural Activities                                 13.56%                  51.63%            34.80%
                                                         83                     316               213           612                      2.21

Job Creation                                        17.78%                  54.32%            27.90%
                                                        109                     333               171           613                      2.10

Affordability of Housing                            27.32%                  42.11%            30.57%
                                                        168                     259               188           615                      2.03




                                                                 37 / 110
                                       Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




Q8 How important is it for the City to be involved in guiding development in the following areas?
                                                Answered: 617     Skipped: 3




                       Protect the
                     City’s natur...




                   Access to open
                    spaces (park...




                     Connectivity
                       (streets,...




                       Creation of
                   neighborhood...




                                                       38 / 110
                             Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


    Access to
    services...




    Density of
 development




   Residential
 development




   Increase of
housing choi...




                  0%   10%      20%   30%   40%   50%   60%   70%     80%   90% 100%



                  unimportant     neutral   important




                                            39 / 110
                                                                 Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

                                                                                            UNIMPORTANT     NEUTRAL     IMPORTANT     TOTAL   WEIGHTED AVERAGE
Protect the City’s natural features (open spaces, waterways, water quality, air quality)           1.14%      11.38%        87.48%
                                                                                                       7           70           538     615                2.86

Access to open spaces (parks, trails, etc)                                                         1.79%      12.54%        85.67%
                                                                                                       11          77           526     614                2.84

Connectivity (streets, sidewalks, trails)                                                          2.45%      17.78%        79.77%
                                                                                                       15         109           489     613                2.77

Creation of neighborhood centers (shopping, services, public spaces)                               6.01%      11.85%        82.14%
                                                                                                       37          73           506     616                2.76

Access to services (shopping, civic services, public transit)                                      5.37%      14.63%        80.00%
                                                                                                       33          90           492     615                2.75

Density of development                                                                            11.15%      24.43%        64.43%
                                                                                                       68         149           393     610                2.53

Residential development                                                                           12.81%      39.24%        47.95%
                                                                                                       78         239           292     609                2.35

Increase of housing choice options in the city                                                    34.26%      40.13%        25.61%
                                                                                                      210         246           157     613                1.91




                                                                                       40 / 110
                              Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




Q9 What types of shopping and dining options would you most like to see within Bluffdale?
                                      Answered: 586   Skipped: 34




                                             41 / 110
                                                   Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

#    RESPONSES                                                                                                               DATE
1    Sprouts, Target, Quality Restaurants (not just fast food), Entertainment                                                3/14/2021 9:08 PM

2    Grocery stores, restaurants, fast food and dine in.                                                                     3/14/2021 4:56 PM

3    Grocery stores and large retail stores (Target, Wal-mart)                                                               3/14/2021 2:37 PM

4    Grocery, fine dining                                                                                                    3/13/2021 6:54 PM

5    farmers market, grocery                                                                                                 3/13/2021 3:42 PM

6    Grocery and Sit-Down dining                                                                                             3/13/2021 11:50 AM

7    any grocery stores, eating establishments, entertainment                                                                3/12/2021 8:26 AM

8    Winco, Trader Joe’s, Harmons                                                                                            3/12/2021 7:14 AM

9    Area on Redwood and Bangerter. Sit down                                                                                 3/11/2021 12:00 PM

10   Grocery store, fast casual dining                                                                                       3/11/2021 11:41 AM

11   Any                                                                                                                     3/11/2021 9:22 AM

12   Grocery stores, not just chain restaurants. Allow for mom and pop stores to open.                                       3/10/2021 9:37 PM

13   daily shopping/dine in                                                                                                  3/10/2021 5:49 PM

14   Fast casual dining, grocery shopping, a couple of restaurants or fast food                                              3/10/2021 2:53 PM

15   Grocery stores and family dining options                                                                                3/10/2021 2:22 PM

16   Groceries and Restaurants                                                                                               3/10/2021 12:04 PM

17   Upscale dining. Not fast food. Unique restaurants. A grocery store! An ice cream destination. Trader Joe's. Car wash.   3/10/2021 10:09 AM
     Target!

18   Outdoor sit down dining restaurants, grocery store, fast food options                                                   3/10/2021 8:28 AM

19   I prefer keeping commercial out of Bluffdale and driving to shop and dine out                                           3/10/2021 8:08 AM

20   Restaurants and bars, groceries                                                                                         3/10/2021 7:06 AM

21   Grocery store                                                                                                           3/9/2021 10:06 PM

22   Basicly follow draper or riverton or Harman that is where all of my money goes                                          3/9/2021 9:10 PM

23   Restaurants                                                                                                             3/9/2021 8:44 PM

24   High end and family.                                                                                                    3/9/2021 7:43 PM

25   Grocery stores, handful of dine-in and fast food                                                                        3/9/2021 7:36 PM

26   Small businesses, no chain fast food restaurants.                                                                       3/9/2021 6:08 PM



                                                                        42 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

27   A grocery store                                                                                                              3/9/2021 3:51 PM

28   Fast food, Smooth and Edward’s, something fun for teens                                                                      3/9/2021 2:58 PM

29   Grocery store                                                                                                                3/9/2021 12:41 PM

30   Grocery store.                                                                                                               3/9/2021 8:47 AM

31   Grocery store, fine dining and causal dining options                                                                         3/9/2021 6:06 AM

32   Sit down dining and fast food options. Smiths, Costco, Target                                                                3/8/2021 9:36 PM

33   Grocery stores, bars, healthy restaurants                                                                                    3/8/2021 9:09 PM

34   No opinion                                                                                                                   3/8/2021 8:01 PM

35   There are many options within minutes of Bluffdale. More focus on preserving the small town feel and less on “shopping and   3/8/2021 7:45 PM
     dining”

36   Indian food!, Grocery stores, costa vida/cafe rio                                                                            3/8/2021 7:02 PM

37   None                                                                                                                         3/8/2021 6:35 PM

38   Grocery, fine dining, family dining, boutique                                                                                3/8/2021 5:24 PM

39   Smith, Harmon, Walmart, restaurant                                                                                           3/8/2021 4:52 PM

40   Small and Local options                                                                                                      3/8/2021 4:30 PM

41   Bars, Breweries, Smith's Marketplace, New restaurants                                                                        3/8/2021 4:30 PM

42   mall, dining restaurants, parks                                                                                              3/8/2021 4:01 PM

43   Grocery and nicer dine-in options                                                                                            3/8/2021 3:50 PM

44   grocery stores and dine-in restaurants                                                                                       3/8/2021 3:39 PM

45   Sit down dining not fast food                                                                                                3/8/2021 3:00 PM

46   Grocery                                                                                                                      3/8/2021 2:59 PM

47   Grocery stores. Fast food                                                                                                    3/8/2021 2:39 PM

48   Any I’m not picky                                                                                                            3/8/2021 2:33 PM

49   grocery store                                                                                                                3/8/2021 2:17 PM

50   I would like grocery stores and restaurant options where the prison is                                                       3/8/2021 2:10 PM

51   Smaller store like a Trader Joe’s and a mixture of nicer and fast-casual restaurants                                         3/8/2021 1:39 PM

52   Smiths, fast casual restaurants, bakerys                                                                                     3/8/2021 1:28 PM

53   Grocery store                                                                                                                3/8/2021 1:05 PM



                                                                        43 / 110
                                                   Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

54   Take out restaurants (cafe Rio, chic fil a, cubby’s, etc). Target, a GROCERY STORE, sporting goods, ups, Verizon, home     3/8/2021 12:41 PM
     goods, etc)

55   Harmons, Walmart                                                                                                           3/8/2021 12:37 PM

56   Grocery primarily                                                                                                          3/8/2021 12:13 PM

57   Grocery Store                                                                                                              3/8/2021 12:02 PM

58   Restaurants and grocery stores                                                                                             3/8/2021 12:01 PM

59   Grocery store, restaurants                                                                                                 3/8/2021 11:28 AM

60   Grocery; convenience dining (general commercial)                                                                           3/8/2021 11:21 AM

61   Anything at this point. The entire Independence at the point community had to either cross bangerter or I-15 to shop for   3/8/2021 11:17 AM
     anything

62   No major chains. Small businesses, cafe style with outdoor seating (ie: main street Heber and PC). There are plenty of     3/8/2021 11:03 AM
     larger chain restaurants and shopping in neighboring cities.

63   Taco Bell and target                                                                                                       3/8/2021 10:59 AM

64   Grocery, Craft Supply, Pet Supply, Home Improvement, etc.                                                                  3/8/2021 10:55 AM

65   Grocery Store                                                                                                              3/8/2021 10:49 AM

66   Grocery store                                                                                                              3/8/2021 10:43 AM

67   Grocery and fast casual dining                                                                                             3/8/2021 10:39 AM

68   Walmart, costco, carwash, hair dressers, medical clinics, instacare, the basic services are missing!                       3/8/2021 10:34 AM

69   Nothing                                                                                                                    3/8/2021 10:28 AM

70   Grocery, fast food, dine in.                                                                                               3/8/2021 10:22 AM

71   We need a grocery store like a trader joe's. Then have an area equal to Sugarhouse. Various businesses from clothing to    3/8/2021 10:18 AM
     books and bike shops to coffee shops, then multiple types of restaurants, bars, outdoor dining, etc.

72   Smiths.                                                                                                                    3/8/2021 10:17 AM

73   Community                                                                                                                  3/8/2021 10:15 AM

74   Grocery store, more gas stations, would love fast casual food options too                                                  3/8/2021 10:09 AM

75   Grocery store                                                                                                              3/8/2021 10:08 AM

76   Grocery, family restaurants, even fast food                                                                                3/8/2021 10:07 AM

77   Grocery                                                                                                                    3/8/2021 10:06 AM

78   Small, a grocery store in the area of Redwood Road and bangerter would be nice                                             3/8/2021 10:06 AM

79   Grocery store, Target, unique eating experiences (local vs chain)                                                          3/8/2021 10:03 AM


                                                                         44 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


80    Winco, fast food                                                                                                             3/8/2021 10:01 AM

81    anything, sick of driving to Draper or Lehi to eat.                                                                          3/8/2021 10:00 AM

82    Grocery stores, restaurants                                                                                                  3/8/2021 9:59 AM

83    Local chains. Harmons, Smiths, R&R bbq, Lolo Hawaiian etc                                                                    3/8/2021 9:56 AM

84    Healthier options. No fast food!                                                                                             3/8/2021 9:49 AM

85    Target. Chick-fil-A.                                                                                                         3/8/2021 9:41 AM

86    Walmart,Harmons,Mc Donald’s                                                                                                  3/8/2021 9:37 AM

87    Restaurants and a Grocery Store                                                                                              3/8/2021 9:36 AM

88    Fast food, pizza, Chinese,                                                                                                   3/8/2021 9:33 AM

89    Groceries, Fast Food, Budget restaurants                                                                                     3/8/2021 9:30 AM

90    Grocery and Convenience                                                                                                      3/8/2021 9:26 AM

91    Grocery, sit down restaurants, fast casual restaurants, plant based dining options, coffee shops, gas stations, clothing     3/8/2021 9:19 AM
      stores, bars, car washes

92    Grocery                                                                                                                      3/8/2021 8:00 AM

93    Restaurants                                                                                                                  3/8/2021 7:38 AM

94    Restaurants and grocery                                                                                                      3/8/2021 7:32 AM

95    Grocery store and fast food as well as some nice sit down restaurants                                                        3/8/2021 7:27 AM

96    Grocery, local restaurants. Local business.                                                                                  3/7/2021 8:40 PM

97    grocery (smiths marketplace) - kneaders, mexican restaurant, swig, chik fil a                                                3/7/2021 4:06 PM

98    fast food, affordable grocery store, clothing, a couple affordable restaurants                                               3/7/2021 2:47 PM

99    grocery and home improvement                                                                                                 3/7/2021 2:45 PM

100   Grocery, big box, fast food                                                                                                  3/7/2021 10:33 AM

101   Grocery, fast food, fast casual                                                                                              3/7/2021 9:31 AM

102   Grocery (Trader Joe’s, smiths, target), restaurant (slackwater, mom and pops), coffee (Dutch brothers or Starbucks), would   3/6/2021 10:46 PM
      love to see some quick food options as well. Maybe have some of the retailers who have warehouses convert in to having
      store fronts etc (IVL collective, Piper and Scoot, Sweet Tooth Fairy).

103   Grocery, Chick Fil-a, jack in the box, other restaurants that give variety                                                   3/6/2021 10:24 PM

104   Target. We need more traffic.                                                                                                3/6/2021 9:15 PM

105   Grocery, drug store, specialty shops, fast food, moderate dining                                                             3/6/2021 9:05 PM


                                                                           45 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

106   Mid-level restaurants such as Cafe Rio. Grocery stores.                                                              3/6/2021 7:18 PM

107   Mexican,                                                                                                             3/6/2021 3:03 PM

108   Grocery store, sit down and drive through dinning, retail (clothing)                                                 3/6/2021 2:19 PM

109   Grocery shopping(target, walmart) and any dining restaurants would be fine                                           3/6/2021 1:39 PM

110   Grocery stores. Good restraints entertainment                                                                        3/6/2021 1:35 PM

111   Grocery and food                                                                                                     3/6/2021 1:14 PM

112   Grocery stores/markets, boutiques/specialty stores. Family restaurants, deli/cafes, reduce chain style restaurants   3/6/2021 11:59 AM

113   Grocery store. Maybe a restaurant or 2. Convince store                                                               3/6/2021 11:58 AM

114   Grocery, fast food, gas convenience                                                                                  3/6/2021 11:29 AM

115   Variety                                                                                                              3/6/2021 10:39 AM

116   Grocery, dine in restaurants                                                                                         3/6/2021 10:12 AM

117   Grocery, food options                                                                                                3/6/2021 9:28 AM

118   Grocery store, pharmacy, variety of locally owned restaurants (not fast food)                                        3/6/2021 8:46 AM

119   Grocery store, pharmacy and a few eateries.                                                                          3/6/2021 8:22 AM

120   Grocery                                                                                                              3/6/2021 8:13 AM

121   Grocery, dine in restaurants                                                                                         3/6/2021 8:05 AM

122   Anything. Grocery, fast food, small business                                                                         3/6/2021 7:24 AM

123   Outlets, grocery stores, steakhouses, cafes, outdoor dining, diverse cultural foods                                  3/6/2021 6:53 AM

124   Grocery store, some fast food places and a couple of sit down restaurants                                            3/6/2021 5:55 AM

125   Quick serve and slow serve Restaurants and grocery stores                                                            3/6/2021 1:43 AM

126   Grocery store!! Ideally a couple different options                                                                   3/6/2021 12:50 AM

127   ?                                                                                                                    3/5/2021 10:35 PM

128   Fast food and grocery                                                                                                3/5/2021 10:34 PM

129   Grocery store Trader Joe’s and dining like R&R BBQ                                                                   3/5/2021 10:27 PM

130   Grocery and restaurants                                                                                              3/5/2021 10:06 PM

131   Grocery, general, fast food,                                                                                         3/5/2021 9:20 PM

132   Grocery, Cafe Rio, Wendy’s Target, drive thru, movie theater., delivery pizza.                                       3/5/2021 9:20 PM

133   grocery, restaurants, quality fast food                                                                              3/5/2021 8:37 PM


                                                                             46 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

134   More grocery stores, smiths or harmons. More fast food, there isn’t anything in Bluffdale, it’s all in draper and riverton   3/5/2021 8:33 PM

135   Target, dining, Harmons                                                                                                      3/5/2021 8:18 PM

136   Grocery stores, restaurants, chick fil a                                                                                     3/5/2021 8:14 PM

137   I combination of sit down, fast food restaurants. A major grocery chain with discount retail stores in a strip mall style    3/5/2021 7:42 PM

138   Grocery store and sit down dining                                                                                            3/5/2021 6:33 PM

139   local businesses, local restaurants                                                                                          3/5/2021 6:00 PM

140   Grocery, pharmacy, Walmart, Costco , Mexican                                                                                 3/5/2021 5:49 PM

141   Most importantly...a grocery store (Trader Joe's anyone?)                                                                    3/5/2021 4:37 PM

142   Coffee shops, fast food, sit down restaurants, grocery stores                                                                3/5/2021 3:19 PM

143   Sit down and fast food, close grocery store                                                                                  3/5/2021 2:44 PM

144   Corner market, grocery store                                                                                                 3/5/2021 2:40 PM

145   None                                                                                                                         3/5/2021 2:24 PM

146   Fast casual restaurants, grocery                                                                                             3/5/2021 2:21 PM

147   Grocery store                                                                                                                3/5/2021 2:13 PM

148   Grocery stores, fast casual dining                                                                                           3/5/2021 2:04 PM

149   Food, grocery                                                                                                                3/5/2021 1:52 PM

150   Anything besides gas station                                                                                                 3/5/2021 1:49 PM

151   Grocery store, sit down restaurant not more fast food.                                                                       3/5/2021 1:39 PM

152   First and foremost, we need a grocery store!!!                                                                               3/5/2021 1:39 PM

153   I would rather go 5 min down the road to shop at an existing store than create traffic and deplete our rural feel.           3/5/2021 12:52 PM

154   Grocery, Dinning, Small Business.                                                                                            3/5/2021 12:40 PM

155   Winco Foods                                                                                                                  3/5/2021 12:15 PM

156   Grocery store                                                                                                                3/5/2021 11:50 AM

157   Quick service type places that aren’t just fast food. A sit down would be nice                                               3/5/2021 11:44 AM

158   Grocery store                                                                                                                3/5/2021 11:37 AM

159   A grocery store, some fast food chains                                                                                       3/5/2021 11:33 AM

160   Grocery and dining                                                                                                           3/5/2021 10:20 AM

161   Local business, mom and pop restaurants                                                                                      3/5/2021 10:05 AM


                                                                          47 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

162   A good variety of everything.                                                                                             3/5/2021 10:01 AM

163   Fast food, groceries                                                                                                      3/5/2021 9:59 AM

164   Grocery stores and restaurants                                                                                            3/5/2021 9:45 AM

165   Maintain that on the corridor on Redwood road so that our retail and are restaurants and that are all along Redwood not   3/5/2021 9:38 AM
      scattered throughout the community

166   Small town small business, keep it small town in a big county.                                                            3/5/2021 9:30 AM

167   Restaurants                                                                                                               3/5/2021 9:29 AM

168   Grocery, fast casual, small retail                                                                                        3/5/2021 9:24 AM

169   Target or Walmart super store                                                                                             3/5/2021 9:08 AM

170   Already missed the boat IMO, we are surrounded by plenty of options in other cities.                                      3/5/2021 9:07 AM

171   Sit down diner                                                                                                            3/5/2021 8:58 AM

172   Grocery shopping. Small boutique dining                                                                                   3/5/2021 8:50 AM

173   Grocery stores, fast food + restaurants, rec center / gym                                                                 3/5/2021 8:48 AM

174   A lot more                                                                                                                3/5/2021 8:39 AM

175   Locally owned. No chains                                                                                                  3/5/2021 8:33 AM

176   Locally owned restaurants, book store, little cafe, places where residents can gather with friends                        3/5/2021 8:26 AM

177   Trader Joe’s or Sprouts. More restaurants (not the fast food ones such as McDonald’s). Tj Maxx                            3/5/2021 8:23 AM

178   Grocery stores                                                                                                            3/5/2021 8:19 AM

179   Sit down restaurants, grocery stores                                                                                      3/5/2021 8:16 AM

180   grocery store and family style dining options                                                                             3/5/2021 8:13 AM

181   Grocery (winco/smiths) Shopping (Target/5 Below)                                                                          3/5/2021 8:07 AM

182   Grocery stores fast or fast casual restaurants                                                                            3/5/2021 8:02 AM

183   Fast food, grocery stores, sit down restaurants                                                                           3/5/2021 7:56 AM

184   A good mix of fast food and sit down restaurants, a grocery Walmart and 1 other grocery store                             3/5/2021 7:56 AM

185   A good mix of grocery & retail as well as dine in & fast food                                                             3/5/2021 7:55 AM

186   Grocery and restaurants (both fast food and casual dining)                                                                3/5/2021 7:47 AM

187   We’d like to see bars and pubs as well as a grocery and convenience store like target                                     3/5/2021 7:44 AM

188   Chik-fil A, chuckArama, Roxbury, Mod pizza, Neighborhood Walmart, Costco, Harmons, Tj Maxx, Ross,                         3/5/2021 7:39 AM



                                                                         48 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

189   Grocery                                                                                                           3/5/2021 7:34 AM

190   Anything!!                                                                                                        3/5/2021 7:24 AM

191   Grocery and fine dining                                                                                           3/5/2021 7:22 AM

192   Costco, Smith Market Place, American Restaurants, Mexican Foos, Italian Food,                                     3/5/2021 7:15 AM

193   Retail and more dine in options                                                                                   3/5/2021 7:13 AM

194   Grocery store and restaurant                                                                                      3/5/2021 7:02 AM

195   Grocery store                                                                                                     3/5/2021 6:58 AM

196   Grocery stores, restaurants                                                                                       3/5/2021 6:58 AM

197   Small local                                                                                                       3/5/2021 6:58 AM

198   Grocery and dine in restaurants                                                                                   3/5/2021 6:42 AM

199   Grocery store, mix of restaurants with ability to serve alcohol, local options - not big chains                   3/5/2021 6:24 AM

200   Cafe style (a Diner would be fun!). Smoothies. Soup and salads. Smiths.                                           3/5/2021 5:54 AM

201   Target, Trader Joe's, Walmart, Homegoods/TJMaxx, Mod, Blaze, Cubbys, Applebees, Fizz, 7 Brothers, Chubbys, Zao,   3/5/2021 5:50 AM
      Hobby Lobby. Walmart Marketplace, Old Navy, Burlington, you name it

202   Grocery, restaurants                                                                                              3/5/2021 4:32 AM

203   Grocery, convenience stores.. sit down/dine in over fast food.                                                    3/5/2021 1:37 AM

204   Trader Joe’s! And some more non-chain restaurants.                                                                3/5/2021 1:16 AM

205   Trader Joe’s, dine in restaurants, (not fast food chains), zao cafe, Aubergine,                                   3/5/2021 1:15 AM

206   Small mom and pop restaurants & shops, not large chains                                                           3/5/2021 12:16 AM

207   Small supermarket, Taco Bell or something like that, small target perhaps as we continue to grow.                 3/5/2021 12:14 AM

208   Grocery stores, variety of foods, farmers market type stores, convenience stores                                  3/5/2021 12:07 AM

209   Grocery store of some kind, sushi, pub                                                                            3/5/2021 12:05 AM

210   Smith's marketplace grocery store                                                                                 3/5/2021 12:03 AM

211   Grocery store                                                                                                     3/4/2021 11:53 PM

212   More grocery stores!!!                                                                                            3/4/2021 11:48 PM

213   Food!! Grocery stores! Clothing                                                                                   3/4/2021 11:41 PM

214   Dining and grocery                                                                                                3/4/2021 11:35 PM

215   Grocery is most important, at least 2 fast food, two sit down dining, and a Starbucks near I-15 for commuters     3/4/2021 11:28 PM



                                                                           49 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

216   Grocery store, date night restaurants and family friendly restaurants                                                             3/4/2021 11:28 PM

217   I would LOVE to have a grocery store in Bluffdale. WINCO would be amazing and a dream come true. I love WINCO for so              3/4/2021 11:28 PM
      many reasons. If not WINCO, something! We need a grocery store. I would love to see restaurants and retail spaces as
      well. Allow the residents to keep their money within city limits to help maintain the city.

218   Costco or Walmart                                                                                                                 3/4/2021 11:27 PM

219   Popeyes,smiths,sprouts,target,chick fil a,family dollar store                                                                     3/4/2021 11:14 PM

220   Grocery store, restaurants (fast food and casual dining)                                                                          3/4/2021 11:13 PM

221   Grocery store, restaurants, shopping centers                                                                                      3/4/2021 11:12 PM

222   Grocery store                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 11:06 PM

223   Grocery stores. Local restaurants. Not huge strip malls. Want more of a small town feel. Though a grocery store is definitely     3/4/2021 11:06 PM
      needed. Would love to see some zoning that would allow for development of some walkable retail on the independence
      neighborhoods (like a 7-11, mini mart, restaurant, nail salon, etc.

224   Grocery store, any restaurants, or Target-like shopping center.                                                                   3/4/2021 11:03 PM

225   Grocery store                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 11:02 PM

226   Restaurants and grocery stores                                                                                                    3/4/2021 11:00 PM

227   Zupas, trader joes, good pasta restaurants, smiths marketplace, chickfila, etc                                                    3/4/2021 10:59 PM

228   Grocery                                                                                                                           3/4/2021 10:59 PM

229   Grocery store on porter rockwell, coffee house and drive thru coffee, unique things that aren’t just across the highway           3/4/2021 10:57 PM

230   Car Wash, Grocery, Fast Casual                                                                                                    3/4/2021 10:56 PM

231   Grocery                                                                                                                           3/4/2021 10:56 PM

232   Grocery Store, restaurants                                                                                                        3/4/2021 10:55 PM

233   Grocery store, fast casual restaurants                                                                                            3/4/2021 10:54 PM

234   Grocery store                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 10:53 PM

235   Grocery and casual dining/fast food/take out                                                                                      3/4/2021 10:48 PM

236   Anything                                                                                                                          3/4/2021 10:48 PM

237   Mixture of a few fast food, sit down lunch dinner and full service restaurant dining options. Not a ton of each but a small mix   3/4/2021 10:45 PM
      of All

238   Grocery stores, sit down dining                                                                                                   3/4/2021 10:44 PM

239   Winco.                                                                                                                            3/4/2021 10:41 PM

240   Costco, Target & Smiths. Also, restaurant chains                                                                                  3/4/2021 10:35 PM



                                                                         50 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

241   grocery stores, restaurants-both family friendly as well as a restaurant with a liquor license.    3/4/2021 10:34 PM

242   Grocery stores                                                                                     3/4/2021 10:31 PM

243   Grocery and unique “mom & pop” stores                                                              3/4/2021 10:30 PM

244   Affordable grocery store                                                                           3/4/2021 10:28 PM

245   A smaller grocery store and some fast casual dining                                                3/4/2021 10:25 PM

246   Grocery shopping                                                                                   3/4/2021 10:25 PM

247   Shopping mall                                                                                      3/4/2021 10:21 PM

248   Grocery store                                                                                      3/4/2021 10:16 PM

249   Grocery store, good fast food, any dine-in options                                                 3/4/2021 10:13 PM

250   Grocery, sit down restaurants,                                                                     3/4/2021 10:12 PM

251   Grocery store, fast food, high revenue major tax contributors.                                     3/4/2021 10:08 PM

252   Grocery store, any restaurants/chains                                                              3/4/2021 10:07 PM

253   Grocery; locally-owned dining and boutique shops                                                   3/4/2021 10:07 PM

254   Fast foods and diners                                                                              3/4/2021 10:06 PM

255   Grocery store, restaurants.                                                                        3/4/2021 10:00 PM

256   Grocery and dining                                                                                 3/4/2021 10:00 PM

257   Grocery store                                                                                      3/4/2021 9:58 PM

258   Nice grocery store, fast casual restaurants, pharmacy                                              3/4/2021 9:58 PM

259   Grocery store                                                                                      3/4/2021 9:58 PM

260   Grocery stores, drivethrus and fast casual dining                                                  3/4/2021 9:56 PM

261   Lounges, mid to upscale restaurants                                                                3/4/2021 9:54 PM

262   Grocery store, franchised fast food, convenient store, dine in restaurants                         3/4/2021 9:49 PM

263   More restaurants                                                                                   3/4/2021 9:48 PM

264   Grocery store                                                                                      3/4/2021 9:47 PM

265   I’m okay without dining options but would love to have a grocery store or Trader Joe’s close by.   3/4/2021 9:47 PM

266   Grocery stores, sit down restaurants                                                               3/4/2021 9:44 PM

267   Smiths, casual fast dining options                                                                 3/4/2021 9:43 PM

268   Grocery store (smiths, Trader Joe’s, etc), gas station, local restaurants                          3/4/2021 9:39 PM



                                                                           51 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

269   Grocery store would be great. I would love some mid-tier local dining options.                                                    3/4/2021 9:38 PM

270   Grocery stores, locally owned restaurants of quality and variety                                                                  3/4/2021 9:37 PM

271   Literally anything                                                                                                                3/4/2021 9:36 PM

272   An affordable, yet nice grocery store. NOT Walmart and NOT Harmon. I'd love a smiths. I'd like sit down dining, even chain        3/4/2021 9:35 PM
      restaurants. "Higher end fast food"

273   Target market place.                                                                                                              3/4/2021 9:33 PM

274   I’d like to see more local shops, diners, pubs, and similar smaller retail options connected together similar to city creek and   3/4/2021 9:25 PM
      sugar house

275   Restaurants and shopping centers (Like The District)                                                                              3/4/2021 9:22 PM

276   Trader joes                                                                                                                       3/4/2021 9:18 PM

277   Grocery store, target, Costco, retail stores, fast food options, sit down dining options                                          3/4/2021 9:18 PM

278   Harmons or smiths                                                                                                                 3/4/2021 9:17 PM

279   Doesn't matter. The city council has no backbone and is pushed around by developers                                               3/4/2021 8:56 PM

280   retail restaurant variety                                                                                                         3/4/2021 8:52 PM

281   Anything except smoke shops, money lending, liquor stores, Maverick. Don't let in the junk, promote some quality                  3/4/2021 8:47 PM
      businesses

282   Grocery shopping                                                                                                                  3/4/2021 8:46 PM

283   Grocery store, dining options                                                                                                     3/4/2021 8:45 PM

284   Bluffdale could use a few good restaurants. Specifically near the freeway, and especially when the prison moves. A grocery        3/4/2021 8:43 PM
      store could also be nice, but perhaps a smaller chain like Trader Joes or Macey's

285   Grocery store                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 8:32 PM

286   Sit down eating, nice grocery stores with good looking architecture                                                               3/4/2021 8:18 PM

287   Smith's, Zulu, Cafe Rio, Slab. Anything really.                                                                                   3/4/2021 8:12 PM

288   Local grocery                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 8:02 PM

289   none                                                                                                                              3/4/2021 7:51 PM

290   Grocery                                                                                                                           3/4/2021 7:31 PM

291   An affordable grocery store such as smiths or Luckys. Both fast food and sit down dining options and maybe a mall in              3/4/2021 6:37 PM
      future

292   Grocery store, family dining, massage, nail swrvices                                                                              3/4/2021 6:28 PM

293   Restaurants and grocery stores                                                                                                    3/4/2021 6:07 PM



                                                                          52 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

294   Grocery store. Any dining.                                                                                    3/4/2021 6:03 PM

295   Grocery, fast food, dine in restaurants,                                                                      3/4/2021 5:53 PM

296   Grocery, fast food, deli, bakery                                                                              3/4/2021 5:31 PM

297   A store                                                                                                       3/4/2021 5:21 PM

298   Major grocery and restaurants                                                                                 3/4/2021 5:19 PM

299   Grocery and convenience stores, family and fast food dining                                                   3/4/2021 5:03 PM

300   Winco or Costco any kind of dinning                                                                           3/4/2021 4:52 PM

301   Small                                                                                                         3/4/2021 4:01 PM

302   Small, not large, stores and restaurants. Low-level. Attractively-built and landscaped.                       3/4/2021 4:00 PM

303   A grocery store. Maybe a Reams is Winco. Mix of fast food and sit down options.                               3/4/2021 3:55 PM

304   Soda shop, fast food, grocery                                                                                 3/4/2021 3:52 PM

305   Nice restaurants, quick food options but good varieties. Stores like target for retail and a grocery option   3/4/2021 3:49 PM

306   None                                                                                                          3/4/2021 3:48 PM

307   Grocery and restaurant                                                                                        3/4/2021 3:36 PM

308   Restaurants / grocery / retail                                                                                3/4/2021 3:32 PM

309   Grocery, dining                                                                                               3/4/2021 3:27 PM

310   Grocery, dining                                                                                               3/4/2021 3:24 PM

311   Sit down restaurants, affordable grocery stores, outdoor dining, some retail                                  3/4/2021 3:23 PM

312   Family dining and recreation centers                                                                          3/4/2021 3:22 PM

313   Grocery stores                                                                                                3/4/2021 3:15 PM

314   Grocery store, casual dining, fast food                                                                       3/4/2021 3:11 PM

315   1. Grocery (small or big box), 2. Fast Food, 3. Fast Casual, 4. Casual Dining                                 3/4/2021 3:06 PM

316   Grocery store                                                                                                 3/4/2021 3:05 PM

317   Grocery stores, sit down restaurants, bowling,golf, fast food                                                 3/4/2021 2:56 PM

318   Grocery; locally owned restaurant.                                                                            3/4/2021 2:53 PM

319   Grocery store, fast food options, restaurants                                                                 3/4/2021 2:50 PM

320   Bars and restaurants                                                                                          3/4/2021 2:46 PM

321   THOUGHTFULLY PLANNED - grocery, dining, limited retail and services, not like the mess in Draper              3/4/2021 2:44 PM



                                                                          53 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

322   Grocery shopping! Smiths, Harmons, etc. restaurants! Clothing stores! Basically anything would be an improvement at this          3/4/2021 2:42 PM
      point.

323   Grocery store, sit down and quick serve                                                                                           3/4/2021 2:38 PM

324   Small local business Saturday market style                                                                                        3/4/2021 2:34 PM

325   Grocery store                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 2:12 PM

326   Grocery stores and restaurants! Windows, Walmart, any restaurants!                                                                3/4/2021 2:08 PM

327   A grocery store and family dining.                                                                                                3/4/2021 2:05 PM

328   Restaurants                                                                                                                       3/4/2021 2:01 PM

329   Grocery store                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 1:59 PM

330   Fast food                                                                                                                         3/4/2021 1:58 PM

331   Grocery stores! Sit down restaurants!                                                                                             3/4/2021 1:55 PM

332   Grocery and dining is very important and something we're inexplicably lacking. I want a good chain grocery store and a            3/4/2021 1:46 PM
      combo of chain and local restaurants.

333   Small, locally owned.                                                                                                             3/4/2021 1:43 PM

334   Grocery store, restaurants                                                                                                        3/4/2021 1:42 PM

335   Grocery store and good eatery's                                                                                                   3/4/2021 1:41 PM

336   A variety of cultural food options and more entertainment options. A community center would be a great addition                   3/4/2021 1:40 PM

337   Not fast food. Diverse dining options that are culturally diverse. Activities that are different such top golf, karaoke, escape   3/4/2021 1:39 PM
      rooms, ax throwing. All this stuff so I don’t have to travel to salt lake to do something other than go to the movies.

338   Grocery store                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 1:37 PM

339   Grocery anywhere, lifestyle town center style along porter Rockwell,                                                              3/4/2021 1:36 PM

340   Target!                                                                                                                           3/4/2021 1:33 PM

341   Fast food and grocery stores                                                                                                      3/4/2021 1:30 PM

342   Grocery, fast food, full service restaurant                                                                                       3/4/2021 1:30 PM

343   Dine in places                                                                                                                    3/4/2021 1:29 PM

344   Grocery and sit-down dining                                                                                                       3/4/2021 1:26 PM

345   Grocery                                                                                                                           3/4/2021 1:25 PM

346   None. PLEASE stop developing Bluffdale! We can get every dining and shopping experience we want with a 10 minute                  3/4/2021 1:21 PM
      drive.

347   Grocery                                                                                                                           3/4/2021 1:18 PM


                                                                          54 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


348   Grocery Stores, Restaurants, fast food, Cafe Rio, Pizza, Chik-fila etc                                            3/4/2021 1:17 PM

349   Grocery store, healthy quick food options                                                                         3/4/2021 1:14 PM

350   Grocery store and dining places                                                                                   3/4/2021 1:06 PM

351   Grocery shopping, sit down and fast food dining                                                                   3/4/2021 12:58 PM

352   Grocery store and other services                                                                                  3/4/2021 12:40 PM

353   Grocery store, clothing stores, fast food, an "upscale " but not too fancy sit down restaurant                    3/4/2021 12:35 PM

354   Grocery restaurant some retail                                                                                    3/4/2021 9:54 AM

355   smiths marketplace, walmart, starbucks, donuts shops, everything that other cities have!                          3/3/2021 10:20 PM

356   Grocery, Restaurants                                                                                              3/3/2021 4:44 PM

357   more locally owned, less chain restaurants                                                                        3/3/2021 3:04 PM

358   Grocery, casual dining, hardware store, entertainment options like theaters etc.                                  3/3/2021 2:26 PM

359   local businesses, not so much National chain locations                                                            3/3/2021 1:00 PM

360   None                                                                                                              3/2/2021 12:45 PM

361   ANYTHING more than what we have now. I've been here 16 years and our options are a joke.                          3/2/2021 11:54 AM

362   Eating options                                                                                                    3/1/2021 2:30 PM

363   limited                                                                                                           3/1/2021 2:05 PM

364   Restaurants and fast food. Grocery store.                                                                         3/1/2021 12:34 PM

365   Just have a central location over by Redwood.                                                                     3/1/2021 11:12 AM

366   Restaurant,                                                                                                       2/28/2021 3:02 PM

367   Grocery store. Restaurants.                                                                                       2/25/2021 10:43 PM

368   small local own shops and dining                                                                                  2/25/2021 4:28 PM

369   None                                                                                                              2/24/2021 11:09 PM

370   I wouldn't. I didn't come to Bluffdale for the shops or dining. I came here for the peace, quiet, and serenity.   2/24/2021 5:56 PM

371   Sit down and fast food. Grocery store                                                                             2/23/2021 3:51 PM

372   Grocery store and mini malls                                                                                      2/23/2021 12:36 PM

373   More options of dining and costco                                                                                 2/22/2021 10:20 PM

374   A downtown boulevard with markets and smaller retail shop and restaurants, kind of line Daybreak.                 2/22/2021 7:27 PM

375   small grocery store / clothing/ sit down restaurants                                                              2/21/2021 4:18 PM


                                                                           55 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


376   Trader joes                                                                                                                          2/19/2021 11:31 PM

377   grocery, sit down restaurant (ie:cracker barrel)                                                                                     2/19/2021 8:14 PM

378   None                                                                                                                                 2/19/2021 7:49 PM

379   Family oriented restaurants or quick serve, and a neighborhood or mom and pop grocer                                                 2/19/2021 7:08 PM

380   none keep bluffdale 1 acer lots. it will pay off in the future when there is no other place in the valley like this                  2/19/2021 6:48 PM

381   None                                                                                                                                 2/19/2021 6:39 PM

382   Sit down restaurants small local businesses                                                                                          2/19/2021 2:49 PM

383   Restaurant                                                                                                                           2/19/2021 2:47 PM

384   grocery like a trader joes or sprouts and resturants not fast food                                                                   2/18/2021 3:23 PM

385   None                                                                                                                                 2/17/2021 5:26 PM

386   Chick Filet                                                                                                                          2/17/2021 11:16 AM

387   Strip Mall around large grocery store including Fast Food                                                                            2/16/2021 7:23 PM

388   Dine in restaurants—after covid                                                                                                      2/15/2021 2:24 PM

389   The grocery store they planned at Bangerter and redwood would be great!!                                                             2/15/2021 1:53 PM

390   an assortment of family friendly dining. a couple of smaller markets (maybe a hispanic market?)                                      2/14/2021 10:38 AM

391   I really like it the way it is. Maybe have another grocery store but there is plenty of shopping around us. I love the feel of the   2/14/2021 6:59 AM
      small town. Utah is growing too fast and we need to hold onto something different and not follow all of the other big build
      cities. They become to corrupt. Like Sandy did

392   None                                                                                                                                 2/12/2021 11:13 PM

393   I'd really like to see a smiths go in. A good grocery store. That's NOT WALMART                                                      2/12/2021 6:47 PM

394   Anything at this point. Grocery Store is #1. And somewhere close to the majority of homes. Not by all the other grocery              2/12/2021 10:30 AM
      stores that are so far.

395   Restaurant, Grocery, small upscale retail                                                                                            2/11/2021 11:40 PM

396   Grocery store, better restaurants. Not fast food                                                                                     2/11/2021 7:29 PM

397   Grocery, fast casual                                                                                                                 2/11/2021 7:07 AM

398   small ones                                                                                                                           2/10/2021 10:35 PM

399   Independently owned businesses. Not chain stores and restaurants                                                                     2/10/2021 10:16 PM

400   Both sit down and take out dining, like Black Bear, Etc                                                                              2/10/2021 2:26 PM

401   Grocery store, sporting goods, fast-food, small locally-owned stores.                                                                2/10/2021 10:48 AM


                                                                            56 / 110
                                                   Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

402   Affordable grocery store                                                                                                    2/9/2021 9:49 PM

403   Fast food                                                                                                                   2/9/2021 7:02 PM

404   Restaurants, grocieries retail like Target                                                                                  2/9/2021 5:02 PM

405   Winco                                                                                                                       2/9/2021 2:34 PM

406   Grocery, local restaurants                                                                                                  2/9/2021 1:15 PM

407   Grocery and clothing shopping, all kinds of restaurants                                                                     2/9/2021 11:07 AM

408   Small grocery store or mini mart                                                                                            2/9/2021 10:43 AM

409   I would rather drive an extra 5 to 10 minutes to dine and shop and maintain our country atmosphere. Why is it such a big    2/9/2021 8:45 AM
      deal to have a big shopping center 2 minutes away instead of 10 minutes away? That 8 minute difference is really that
      important? I’m guessing one big reason is for the taxes the city would gain from it, but I’d rather stay country-focused.

410   Grocery and Retail Stores                                                                                                   2/8/2021 9:54 PM

411   Grocery store options, Target, independent restaurants                                                                      2/8/2021 9:09 PM

412   Grocery, hardware, fast food, restaurant dining                                                                             2/8/2021 8:56 PM

413   Sit Down Restaurants                                                                                                        2/8/2021 8:30 PM

414   Grocery store, sams club, restaurants, fast food, bowling ally                                                              2/8/2021 8:14 PM

415   Trader Joe’s,                                                                                                               2/8/2021 6:34 PM

416   Grocery, dinning,                                                                                                           2/8/2021 6:16 PM

417   Diversity of options. We need it all.                                                                                       2/8/2021 5:52 PM

418   Grocery and car wash                                                                                                        2/8/2021 5:34 PM

419   Grocery store, restaurants, fast food                                                                                       2/8/2021 5:24 PM

420   Anything I can walk to                                                                                                      2/8/2021 5:24 PM

421   No big box stores. Walkable shopping centers with grocery stores, eat in and take out dining and small commercial/retail    2/8/2021 3:37 PM
      businesses.

422   Grocery store, sams club, restaurants, fast food, health food store,                                                        2/8/2021 3:27 PM

423   Retail groceries; dine and dine out establishments                                                                          2/8/2021 9:21 AM

424   Grocery store: Winco, Walmart, Target, restaurants, dollar store                                                            2/8/2021 8:04 AM

425   Grocery/ fastfood/nice restaurant                                                                                           2/8/2021 6:01 AM

426   any                                                                                                                         2/8/2021 1:01 AM

427   Grocery                                                                                                                     2/7/2021 9:40 PM



                                                                         57 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

428   Grocery stores , sit down dining, really any food places                                                                         2/7/2021 9:28 PM

429   Target/Walmart, grocery stores, fast casual restaurants                                                                          2/7/2021 3:21 PM

430   Mixed local with chains                                                                                                          2/7/2021 3:02 PM

431   Family owned business- there are too many chains in Utah                                                                         2/7/2021 2:38 PM

432   Grocery, Retail shops, Dining                                                                                                    2/7/2021 2:26 PM

433   Grocery, Retail shops, Dinning                                                                                                   2/7/2021 2:20 PM

434   Grocery and big box stores                                                                                                       2/7/2021 7:50 AM

435   GROCERY!!!!!!                                                                                                                    2/6/2021 11:52 PM

436   Grocery, dining                                                                                                                  2/6/2021 11:43 PM

437   Grocery store                                                                                                                    2/6/2021 10:12 PM

438   Nice places that can replace the uncared for business with giant lots that look like junk yards.                                 2/6/2021 9:19 PM

439   Grocery store, retail shops, mix of fast food and dine in restaurants                                                            2/6/2021 9:04 PM

440   Midsize grocery like Trader Joe’s or Smiths. Not chain fast food. Not huge retailers or big box stores.                          2/6/2021 9:03 PM

441   to grocery stores one at independence 1 at Bangerter and Redwood Road with adjoining strip malls and that’s it we have           2/6/2021 8:24 PM
      enough close neighboring communities we do not need to bring a lot of commercial into the area or fill up all of our open
      space with big box retailers. Nor do we need to attract jobs as we can drive elsewhere for that type of work with Bluffdale as
      quiet rolling neighborhoods without a lot of congestion and certainly no high density housing thank you for only putting it in
      the worst part of Bluffdale and not throughout the city.

442   grocery                                                                                                                          2/6/2021 7:54 PM

443   Maybe basic fast food choices.                                                                                                   2/6/2021 6:03 PM

444   not important, there is much in the surrounding cities                                                                           2/6/2021 5:32 PM

445   None! We don't need any!                                                                                                         2/6/2021 5:23 PM

446   A grocery store and some decent restaurants                                                                                      2/6/2021 5:10 PM

447   Grocery stores and sit down restaurants                                                                                          2/6/2021 4:24 PM

448   Grocery stores and sit down dining                                                                                               2/6/2021 3:54 PM

449   grocery store                                                                                                                    2/6/2021 3:49 PM

450   Grocery stores. Casual dining, fast food options                                                                                 2/6/2021 3:31 PM

451   Grocery store, restaurants                                                                                                       2/6/2021 3:30 PM

452   Grocery                                                                                                                          2/6/2021 2:56 PM

453   None, the are more than enough options in the surrounding cities.                                                                2/6/2021 2:47 PM


                                                                          58 / 110
                                                       Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


454   Grocery with multi pad access. Something similar to the Lee’s Marketplace development in North Salt lake would be perfect         2/6/2021 2:45 PM
      for Bluffdale.

455   A variety of mid to high price restaurants and retail stores.                                                                     2/6/2021 2:25 PM

456   Grocery store, family friendly restaurants, soda shop, gym, family entertainment                                                  2/6/2021 2:24 PM

457   Bluffdale doesn’t need to try to be a dining or shopping mecca. Bluffdale is losing it’s unique feature of being “little bit of   2/6/2021 2:23 PM
      country” and “wide open spaces” in attempt to commercialize.

458   Small local restaurants, sports bars and pubs                                                                                     2/6/2021 1:54 PM

459   grocery store                                                                                                                     2/6/2021 1:21 PM

460   Breweries and coffee shops.                                                                                                       2/6/2021 1:09 PM

461   Grocery stores, convenience stores, dine in restaurants, some fast food options                                                   2/6/2021 1:07 PM

462   Grocery and small business dining                                                                                                 2/6/2021 1:02 PM

463   A grocery store                                                                                                                   2/6/2021 12:24 PM

464   A grocery store                                                                                                                   2/6/2021 11:44 AM

465   Grocery store                                                                                                                     2/6/2021 11:38 AM

466   All. We have businesses but most are not retail. If like to spend my money at stores that benefit my city                         2/6/2021 11:18 AM

467   Any grocery store. Any drive through. Anything                                                                                    2/6/2021 11:11 AM

468   Fast food/sit down. GROCERY STORE - Smiths, Macey’s, etc.                                                                         2/6/2021 11:05 AM

469   Chick Fil A                                                                                                                       2/6/2021 10:59 AM

470   Smiths, fast food, inside dining, winco                                                                                           2/6/2021 10:51 AM

471   Major grocery store. Some mix of dining options from chain restaurants to local restaurants.                                      2/6/2021 10:50 AM

472   Grocery store                                                                                                                     2/6/2021 10:45 AM

473   GROCERY SHOPPING!!! and sit down dining                                                                                           2/6/2021 10:39 AM

474   Grocery, strip mall, fast food, dine in                                                                                           2/6/2021 10:36 AM

475   Affordable                                                                                                                        2/6/2021 10:33 AM

476   Grocery store, Chipolte, cafe Rio, drug store,                                                                                    2/6/2021 10:24 AM

477   Grocery store                                                                                                                     2/6/2021 10:12 AM

478   Grocery stores! Local restaurants (non-chain restaurants)                                                                         2/6/2021 10:07 AM

479   Grocery store and sit down restaurants                                                                                            2/6/2021 10:05 AM



                                                                            59 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

480   A grocery store                                                                                                       2/6/2021 10:01 AM

481   Grocery stores                                                                                                        2/6/2021 10:00 AM

482   I would love a grocery store or some fast casual style dining                                                         2/6/2021 9:46 AM

483   Grocery store, eating establishment                                                                                   2/6/2021 9:39 AM

484   Harmons, Trader Joe’s, Chick fil a, Zupas, a Megaplex Théâtres, Texas Roadhouse, Panda Express, all close to 14600s   2/6/2021 9:36 AM
      (Bluffdale Boulevard)

485   Grocery store, mid level dining, clothing store                                                                       2/6/2021 9:29 AM

486   Grocery store and some dining options                                                                                 2/6/2021 9:27 AM

487   A grocery store for sure. Any dining is good.                                                                         2/6/2021 9:16 AM

488   Grocery                                                                                                               2/6/2021 9:13 AM

489   Winco here mainly                                                                                                     2/6/2021 9:05 AM

490   Small and Local shops, grocery store                                                                                  2/6/2021 9:04 AM

491   Grocery, fast food, dine in.                                                                                          2/6/2021 8:56 AM

492   Grocery store, family dining                                                                                          2/6/2021 8:56 AM

493   One Grocery store only                                                                                                2/6/2021 8:55 AM

494   Grocery and casual dining                                                                                             2/6/2021 8:45 AM

495   Grocery store and restaurants                                                                                         2/6/2021 8:45 AM

496   No chain dining options, family run dining. Grocery shopping                                                          2/6/2021 8:40 AM

497   Trader Joe's, World Market, Chick Fil A, Target,                                                                      2/6/2021 8:05 AM

498   Independent mom and pop shops and grocery. Not mass market. Those are easily accessible already.                      2/6/2021 7:57 AM

499   Grocery at redwood and Bangerter                                                                                      2/6/2021 7:53 AM

500   I would really like to have a grocery store close by.                                                                 2/6/2021 7:41 AM

501   Strip malls and small specialty shops. No large grocery stores like smiths                                            2/6/2021 7:18 AM

502   Fast food and grocery store                                                                                           2/6/2021 6:43 AM

503   Target, Hobby Lobby, a bookstore. Fast/casual dining like Costa Vida.                                                 2/6/2021 6:27 AM

504   A grocery store — Trader Joe’s!                                                                                       2/6/2021 5:12 AM

505   Anything because we have nothing. A larger grocery store, a fast food location and a middle range option.             2/6/2021 1:18 AM

506   In n out, jack in the box, culvers, red lobster, smiths                                                               2/6/2021 1:04 AM



                                                                        60 / 110
                                                        Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

507   Fast food, grocery but not harmon's nor niche grocery stores like Trader Joe's or whole foods                 2/6/2021 12:50 AM

508   Grocery                                                                                                       2/6/2021 12:13 AM

509   Grocery stores, restaurants, fast food, and NO Walmart!!                                                      2/5/2021 11:52 PM

510   Grocery, sit down, fast food                                                                                  2/5/2021 11:50 PM

511   Anything to bring more sales tax to the city                                                                  2/5/2021 11:29 PM

512   Grocery store.                                                                                                2/5/2021 11:14 PM

513   Trader Joes, small owned, unique family business                                                              2/5/2021 11:10 PM

514   Grocery store, restaurants                                                                                    2/5/2021 11:05 PM

515   Grocery and variety of dining options                                                                         2/5/2021 10:46 PM

516   Grocery, restaurants                                                                                          2/5/2021 10:44 PM

517   A grocery store would be fabulous                                                                             2/5/2021 10:27 PM

518   Smith's marketplace                                                                                           2/5/2021 10:27 PM

519   Grocery stores                                                                                                2/5/2021 10:23 PM

520   Grocery store, sit down restaurant                                                                            2/5/2021 10:21 PM

521   Family restaurants and retail establishments                                                                  2/5/2021 10:16 PM

522   Local owners, small diners, fast food,                                                                        2/5/2021 10:15 PM

523   All types                                                                                                     2/5/2021 10:15 PM

524   Major Grocery Store, fast food                                                                                2/5/2021 10:08 PM

525   Grocery, fast food                                                                                            2/5/2021 10:04 PM

526   Grocery, bars and restaurants (no chains... mom and pops places and locally owned unique places)              2/5/2021 10:03 PM

527   A grocery store, retail, non-chain restaurants.                                                               2/5/2021 10:02 PM

528   Can we start with an option. Maverick and coffee shop don't count                                             2/5/2021 9:56 PM

529   Trader Joe’s                                                                                                  2/5/2021 9:49 PM

530   Grocery and Restaurants                                                                                       2/5/2021 9:49 PM

531   Target, Trader Joe’s                                                                                          2/5/2021 9:45 PM

532   Trader Joe’s. Winco. Sit down restaurants                                                                     2/5/2021 9:25 PM

533   Chains like rumbi, noodles and company, wendy's, anything really.                                             2/5/2021 9:23 PM

534   A grocery store like Macy’s. And dining and fast food places where people could go with friends and family.   2/5/2021 9:21 PM



                                                                          61 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

535   Grocery stores and dine in restaurants                                                                                   2/5/2021 9:17 PM

536   Grocery, sit down restaurant, fast food                                                                                  2/5/2021 9:13 PM

537   Grocery store, gas station, restaurants especially                                                                       2/5/2021 9:12 PM

538   Walmart or target. Some type of grocery (smiths) and fast food restaurants (chick Fil a, Taco Bell, costa Vida, etc.).   2/5/2021 9:04 PM

539   Grocery store, maceys, Harmons, smiths                                                                                   2/5/2021 9:01 PM

540   Grocery shopping                                                                                                         2/5/2021 8:55 PM

541   Grocery store                                                                                                            2/5/2021 8:52 PM

542   Winco, Walmart, Luckys, Swig                                                                                             2/5/2021 8:52 PM

543   Groceries, fast food and dining                                                                                          2/5/2021 8:50 PM

544   Grocery/retail combo like Super Target or Smiths Marketplace. More dine in restaurants and fast food. Starbucks.         2/5/2021 8:37 PM

545   An open air walk able area, boutique type dining                                                                         2/5/2021 8:31 PM

546   Smiths                                                                                                                   2/5/2021 8:30 PM

547   Grocery Store                                                                                                            2/5/2021 8:27 PM

548   Grocery, local owned restaurants NO chains                                                                               2/5/2021 8:22 PM

549   Grocery and fast food                                                                                                    2/5/2021 8:14 PM

550   Grocery store                                                                                                            2/5/2021 8:12 PM

551   Healthy, fast casual, grocery                                                                                            2/5/2021 8:10 PM

552   Grocery, restraunts, gas station                                                                                         2/5/2021 7:55 PM

553   Trader Joe's, non fast food reasonably priced restaurants and cafes.                                                     2/5/2021 7:39 PM

554   Grocery and family diner                                                                                                 2/5/2021 7:30 PM

555   Any                                                                                                                      2/5/2021 7:19 PM

556   Trader Joe’s, local small businesses                                                                                     2/5/2021 7:07 PM

557   Grocery shopping and cafes                                                                                               2/5/2021 6:59 PM

558   More dining options maybe a food market                                                                                  2/5/2021 6:50 PM

559   Local businesses                                                                                                         2/5/2021 6:18 PM

560   Grocery stores                                                                                                           2/5/2021 6:13 PM

561   Grocery, fast casual dining, drive through dining                                                                        2/5/2021 5:53 PM

562   Smaller, Sugarhouse/Holladay type promenades                                                                             2/5/2021 5:50 PM



                                                                         62 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

563   Target                                                                                                                            2/5/2021 5:44 PM

564   Grocery, all types of dining                                                                                                      2/5/2021 5:44 PM

565   Grocery store, big box store, dine in restaurants, drive thru restaurants,                                                        2/5/2021 5:29 PM

566   Limited, restaurants & small shopping centers                                                                                     2/5/2021 5:25 PM

567   Affordable grocery, and a mix of dining (fast food, sit down, etc.) But at least fast food options.                               2/5/2021 5:10 PM

568   Grocery and variety of food                                                                                                       2/5/2021 5:09 PM

569   Grocery store, fast food                                                                                                          2/5/2021 5:03 PM

570   Groceries, sit-in dining, fast food, outside dining, day spa, hardware store, restaurant with a bar, car wash, ice cream/yogurt   2/5/2021 5:03 PM
      parlor

571   a decent restaurant                                                                                                               2/5/2021 4:59 PM

572   Grocery store                                                                                                                     2/5/2021 4:55 PM

573   None                                                                                                                              2/5/2021 4:45 PM

574   local small businesses, fast food                                                                                                 2/5/2021 2:11 PM

575   Grocery (small and/or big box). Fast food, fast casual and casual dining options. Any and all additional shopping and dining      2/5/2021 10:20 AM
      with city limits would be an improvement. Shopping and dining options would best be suited for zone 4 of the city that will
      surround the Point cultural center.

576   Grocery and a mix of fast food and dine in.                                                                                       2/4/2021 8:29 PM

577   Grocery, local restaurants, small business                                                                                        2/4/2021 8:16 PM

578   Non-chain food, encourage small business and groceries                                                                            2/4/2021 8:10 PM

579   Major grocery store and smaller local dine-in and take-out restaurants                                                            2/4/2021 6:03 PM

580   Unique dining and shopping options within walking distance of residential areas                                                   2/4/2021 5:57 PM

581   Fast casual dining. Neighborhood grocery                                                                                          2/4/2021 5:36 PM

582   Grocery, Restaurant, Fast Food, Entertainment                                                                                     2/4/2021 10:34 AM

583   Grocery, family dining                                                                                                            2/3/2021 10:53 AM

584   Grocery Stores, non-chain restaurants                                                                                             2/1/2021 3:56 PM

585   None, we have plenty within a few miles, with more to come in Riverton                                                            1/27/2021 5:15 PM

586   More locally owned business, less chain options.                                                                                  1/27/2021 9:25 AM




                                                                           63 / 110
                                         Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




Q10 Which local commercial centers do you think work well? (Check all that apply)
                                                 Answered: 598    Skipped: 22


            Mountain View
                Village,...

                 Daybreak,
              South Jordan

                Outlets at
                Traverse...

              Station Park,
               Farmington

                   Jordan
            Landing, Wes...

             Sugar House,
             Salt Lake City

              Sandy Town
             Center, Sandy

              Other (please
                   specify)

              Main Street,
                Bountiful

                              0%   10%     20%   30%   40%       50%   60%      70%   80%   90% 100%




                                                        64 / 110
                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

ANSWER CHOICES                                                                RESPONSES

Mountain View Village, Riverton                                               41.81%      250

Daybreak, South Jordan                                                        37.96%      227

Outlets at Traverse Mountain, Lehi                                            36.96%      221

Station Park, Farmington                                                      35.12%      210

Jordan Landing, West Jordan                                                   27.93%      167

Sugar House, Salt Lake City                                                   26.42%      158

Sandy Town Center, Sandy                                                      16.39%      98

Other (please specify)                                                        15.38%      92

Main Street, Bountiful                                                        8.36%       50

Total Respondents: 598




                                                    65 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

#    OTHER (PLEASE SPECIFY)                                                                                                              DATE
1    The district                                                                                                                        3/11/2021 11:41 AM

2    The District                                                                                                                        3/10/2021 10:09 AM

3    I would prefer we have no commercial centers in Bluffdale                                                                           3/10/2021 8:08 AM

4    Where do you want to put this? I would have to say none of the above.                                                               3/9/2021 6:08 PM

5    I don’t know. Big box stores seem to be going under.                                                                                3/9/2021 2:58 PM

6    Shops at Riverwoods, Provo                                                                                                          3/9/2021 8:47 AM

7    The last thing Bluffdale needs is a commercial center                                                                               3/8/2021 7:45 PM

8    None I think these big centers will take away the culture of Bluffdale. Soon it will push out large animals and bring in a lot of   3/8/2021 3:00 PM
     busy busy high speed traffic

9    Drive thrus                                                                                                                         3/8/2021 12:41 PM

10   Unsure                                                                                                                              3/8/2021 11:28 AM

11   Draper Peaks, Draper                                                                                                                3/8/2021 10:55 AM

12   Don’t crowd so much in                                                                                                              3/8/2021 10:06 AM

13   Keep Bluffdale small and rural!!!!!                                                                                                 3/7/2021 8:40 PM

14   Lin's grocery with a small strip mall                                                                                               3/7/2021 2:45 PM

15   Sunday farmer market formats and a format where we can get a food truck league                                                      3/6/2021 10:46 PM

16   I think it would be good to create a mix for Bluffdale, Along 14600 do retail and higher traffic areas. As the prison relocates     3/6/2021 10:24 PM
     it'll be a major road in Bluffdale. Do more along redwood down to mount corridor and add some to the south west of Porter
     rockwell, create hospitality by i15 and perhaps mount corridor and redwood.

17   Not a large shopping mall, but nice neighborhood shopping would be good                                                             3/6/2021 9:05 PM

18   Man made lakes                                                                                                                      3/6/2021 8:13 AM

19   Cultural sections would be cool. Little Italy, China town, Irish                                                                    3/5/2021 9:20 PM

20   The District                                                                                                                        3/5/2021 8:18 PM

21   None                                                                                                                                3/5/2021 2:24 PM

22   All are crowded, congested                                                                                                          3/5/2021 12:52 PM

23   All too big for Bluffdale! If anything have lots of open spaces for families to enjoy while shopping or just a day out              3/5/2021 10:05 AM

24   Small business                                                                                                                      3/5/2021 9:30 AM

25   Research most areas listed above have major problem with upkeep and filling their retail spots.                                     3/5/2021 9:07 AM



                                                                          66 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

26   Historic Draper, Holiday                                                                                                    3/5/2021 8:50 AM

27   We don’t want too much traffic or chaos. Jordan landing is a disaster. We just need options but not huge shopping centers   3/5/2021 8:48 AM

28   Area near south Jordan library. Outdoor dining, small shops                                                                 3/5/2021 6:58 AM

29   The district                                                                                                                3/4/2021 11:48 PM

30   Ugh please done do a huge strip mall with a zillion parking spaces. Keep it feeling small town and local.                   3/4/2021 11:06 PM

31   Anything that’s walkable and pedestrian oriented with strong CpTED focuses                                                  3/4/2021 10:08 PM

32   The District south Jordan                                                                                                   3/4/2021 10:00 PM

33   Something that transcends all of this: Living Future Challenge                                                              3/4/2021 9:37 PM

34   The District                                                                                                                3/4/2021 9:22 PM

35   Holiday                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 9:18 PM

36   Doesn't matter. City council has no back bone                                                                               3/4/2021 8:56 PM

37   Just do a normal square block without all the flower beds, round about, stop signs. Don't over think it, most of these      3/4/2021 8:47 PM
     examples are a mess. (Don't let Californians plan it, copy East coast)

38   none                                                                                                                        3/4/2021 7:51 PM

39   Jordan Commons                                                                                                              3/4/2021 6:03 PM

40   The District (with Megaplex Theatre)                                                                                        3/4/2021 5:31 PM

41   to much traffic in all                                                                                                      3/4/2021 4:52 PM

42   None                                                                                                                        3/4/2021 3:48 PM

43   Just a grocery store                                                                                                        3/4/2021 3:05 PM

44   District                                                                                                                    3/4/2021 2:56 PM

45   Fashion Place Mall area                                                                                                     3/4/2021 2:38 PM

46   None of the above. All of these areas are nightmares with horrible traffic and congestion.                                  3/4/2021 1:21 PM

47   Do not really care for any of them                                                                                          3/3/2021 4:44 PM

48   I prefer a small town main street type, but that's likely not practical here.                                               3/3/2021 2:26 PM

49   don't need as much retail as these examples, but some- yes                                                                  3/3/2021 1:00 PM

50   None                                                                                                                        3/2/2021 12:45 PM

51   NONE of the above. TOO many people. Too little space to move, park, or drive.                                               2/24/2021 5:56 PM

52   multi tenant buildings/ commercial on bottom / housing on top                                                               2/21/2021 4:18 PM



                                                                           67 / 110
                                                  Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

53   Bluffdale doesn’t need any of this. People move here to get away from all that.                                2/19/2021 7:49 PM

54   none of these should be in bluffdale                                                                           2/19/2021 6:48 PM

55   easy access walking or riding. Like Holliday outdoor dining                                                    2/18/2021 3:23 PM

56   None                                                                                                           2/17/2021 5:26 PM

57   Quarry bend in Sandy                                                                                           2/14/2021 10:38 AM

58   Why do we have to be like everyone else. Why can’t we be different!!!!!!                                       2/14/2021 6:59 AM

59   None of these                                                                                                  2/12/2021 11:13 PM

60   District, south jordan                                                                                         2/11/2021 11:40 PM

61   None of the above in old-town Bluffdale near one acre residential homes.                                       2/10/2021 10:48 AM

62   City Creek                                                                                                     2/9/2021 5:02 PM

63   City Creek                                                                                                     2/8/2021 9:54 PM

64   Farmers Market (LA, California)                                                                                2/8/2021 6:34 PM

65   Those are all too crowded with islands and tiny roads!!                                                        2/8/2021 6:01 AM

66   Honestly, if we just had by a grocery store and a few restaurants/retail near it would be a HUGE improvement   2/7/2021 6:59 AM

67   The District, South Jordan                                                                                     2/6/2021 9:04 PM

68   we don't want an ugly box mall here                                                                            2/6/2021 5:32 PM

69   Please just NO!                                                                                                2/6/2021 5:23 PM

70   None of these work well with Bluffdale. We are not supposed to be a commercial community.                      2/6/2021 2:47 PM

71   Lee’s Marketplace in North Salt lake                                                                           2/6/2021 2:45 PM

72   None. Stop trying to commercialize Bluffdale. Keep our uniqueness. Stop trying to become other cities.         2/6/2021 2:23 PM

73   Unsure                                                                                                         2/6/2021 1:02 PM

74   The district in South jordan                                                                                   2/6/2021 11:18 AM

75   None                                                                                                           2/6/2021 10:33 AM

76   Not ne                                                                                                         2/6/2021 8:55 AM

77   Mountainview village                                                                                           2/6/2021 7:53 AM

78   The District, South Jordan                                                                                     2/5/2021 11:50 PM

79   Something small with a few shops, a few sit down restaurants. A quaint little town.                            2/5/2021 9:28 PM

80   The District                                                                                                   2/5/2021 9:13 PM



                                                                       68 / 110
                                                   Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

81   Stay on the smaller side, a well kept grocery store smiths or harmons                           2/5/2021 8:52 PM

82   Shopping area near holladay                                                                     2/5/2021 8:31 PM

83   Holliday city                                                                                   2/5/2021 8:27 PM

84   None                                                                                            2/5/2021 8:09 PM

85   District                                                                                        2/5/2021 7:07 PM

86   Holladay City                                                                                   2/5/2021 5:50 PM

87   These are all too large                                                                         2/5/2021 5:25 PM

88   none, we do not have the room or desire to have it in this city                                 2/5/2021 2:11 PM

89   The District, South Jordan                                                                      2/4/2021 8:29 PM

90   Trolley Square and the Gateway                                                                  2/4/2021 8:10 PM

91   Downtown Holladay                                                                               2/4/2021 5:57 PM

92   None, it would be a waste of money Riverton is building a giant one on Bangerter and 13400 s.   1/27/2021 5:15 PM




                                                                       69 / 110
                                              Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




Q11 Which types of housing options would you like to see more of in Bluffdale? (select all that
                                         apply)
                                                      Answered: 598    Skipped: 22


                          Cottage
                    Cluster (gro...


                           Other



                  Senior Housing


                     Accessory
                  Dwelling Units

                          Garden
                       Apartment


                      Townhouse


                       Duplex or
                         Triplex


                   For sale condo


                   Apartments for
                            rent

                                   0%   10%     20%   30%   40%       50%   60%      70%   80%   90% 100%




                                                             70 / 110
                                         Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

ANSWER CHOICES                                                                    RESPONSES

Cottage Cluster (group of small homes)                                            43.65%      261

Other                                                                             34.28%      205

Senior Housing                                                                    25.42%      152

Accessory Dwelling Units                                                          23.75%      142

Garden Apartment                                                                  23.58%      141

Townhouse                                                                         17.06%      102

Duplex or Triplex                                                                 13.38%      80

For sale condo                                                                    9.20%       55

Apartments for rent                                                               4.35%       26

Total Respondents: 598




                                                        71 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

#    OTHER                                                                                                                      DATE
1    Single family homes                                                                                                        3/14/2021 2:37 PM

2    None of these. Maintain 1 acre lots                                                                                        3/11/2021 11:41 AM

3    Homes on acreage                                                                                                           3/11/2021 9:22 AM

4    Normal houses on normal lots. NO MORE DAYBREAK!!!                                                                          3/9/2021 9:10 PM

5    Again where do you want to locate this. We have enough in our surrounding areas Riverton in Herriman. Really don’t think   3/9/2021 6:08 PM
     we need it in Bluffdale. How about acre lots or half acre . Single family homes

6    Single Family Homes                                                                                                        3/9/2021 12:52 PM

7    Single family                                                                                                              3/9/2021 12:41 PM

8    Single family housing                                                                                                      3/9/2021 8:47 AM

9    No high density - there is enough in Herriman                                                                              3/8/2021 8:43 PM

10   Large agricultural lots                                                                                                    3/8/2021 7:45 PM

11   Any                                                                                                                        3/8/2021 7:02 PM

12   Single family home on 1-acre                                                                                               3/8/2021 6:35 PM

13   Single family homes                                                                                                        3/8/2021 3:50 PM

14   Single family homes with larger than .15 acreage                                                                           3/8/2021 2:59 PM

15   Single family                                                                                                              3/8/2021 2:10 PM

16   Single family homes                                                                                                        3/8/2021 12:41 PM

17   Single family                                                                                                              3/8/2021 12:13 PM

18   Single family homes. We have way too many duplex’s/apartments                                                              3/8/2021 11:28 AM

19   Single family                                                                                                              3/8/2021 10:28 AM

20   None                                                                                                                       3/8/2021 10:17 AM

21   Less crowded housing                                                                                                       3/8/2021 10:06 AM

22   Preferably no more housing developments                                                                                    3/8/2021 9:19 AM

23   None of those                                                                                                              3/8/2021 8:00 AM

24   None of the above, stick to single homes on 1 acre lots                                                                    3/8/2021 7:38 AM

25   half acre lots                                                                                                             3/7/2021 2:47 PM

26   assisted living                                                                                                            3/7/2021 2:45 PM



                                                                      72 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

27   Single family homes                                                                                                                3/6/2021 10:46 PM

28   Single Family homes realizing Bluffdale has limited space until Geneva's quarry west of i15 is depleted                            3/6/2021 10:24 PM

29   Single family homes.                                                                                                               3/6/2021 9:15 PM

30   N/A                                                                                                                                3/6/2021 11:58 AM

31   Gated community with large lot size and custom homes                                                                               3/6/2021 8:46 AM

32   Gated communities and/or Big beautiful homes that don’t look identical.                                                            3/6/2021 8:22 AM

33   If I have to pick, single family homes where you can’t look into your neighbors window and reach into their kitchen because        3/6/2021 5:55 AM
     you’re so freakin close.

34   Residential homes                                                                                                                  3/6/2021 12:50 AM

35   1 acre single family houses                                                                                                        3/5/2021 10:27 PM

36   Gated communities                                                                                                                  3/5/2021 8:14 PM

37   Regular Homes! No more high density houses!                                                                                        3/5/2021 6:33 PM

38   Single family units                                                                                                                3/5/2021 5:49 PM

39   How about we stop with this high density housing crap.                                                                             3/5/2021 4:37 PM

40   Single homes                                                                                                                       3/5/2021 2:44 PM

41   NA                                                                                                                                 3/5/2021 2:40 PM

42   Absolutely none of these.                                                                                                          3/5/2021 2:24 PM

43   We have plenty of housing                                                                                                          3/5/2021 1:39 PM

44   Not really for high density housing                                                                                                3/5/2021 12:52 PM

45   None, the city hasn’t been able to handle the current growth right now                                                             3/5/2021 11:37 AM

46   Single family - NO high density                                                                                                    3/5/2021 10:05 AM

47   None. I don't think we need to add much more residential especially higher density. I feel like the current infrastructure isn't   3/5/2021 10:01 AM
     even equipped to handle all the growth on the Eastside. Lets figure that out before we even consider adding any of these
     options.

48   Just normal homes with yards                                                                                                       3/5/2021 9:45 AM

49   Bigger single family homes                                                                                                         3/5/2021 9:08 AM

50   1 acre lots                                                                                                                        3/5/2021 9:07 AM

51   More neighborhoods/communities like Spring View Farms and Boulden Ridge. No more high density like independence at                 3/5/2021 8:48 AM
     the point. We don’t want to turn into Herriman or daybreak

52   Single family homes                                                                                                                3/5/2021 8:33 AM


                                                                          73 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


53   Affordable Housing is Utah’s #1 issue. So let’s help be part of the solution!!                                                3/5/2021 8:26 AM

54   we already have a diverse cluster of options.                                                                                 3/5/2021 8:13 AM

55   Single family homes                                                                                                           3/5/2021 7:56 AM

56   Single family homes with yards                                                                                                3/5/2021 7:44 AM

57   NO high density!!!!!!!                                                                                                        3/5/2021 7:22 AM

58   Affordale single family homes.                                                                                                3/5/2021 5:50 AM

59   Larger home lots. To many homes are built almost on top of each other in Independence area                                    3/5/2021 4:32 AM

60   Large lots with space between homes and lots of open space.                                                                   3/5/2021 1:16 AM

61   None of the above!!! People want to invest in that kind of housing, they can go to Provo or west valley. We should focus on   3/5/2021 1:15 AM
     si for family homes. A higher standard of living.

62   Single family homes                                                                                                           3/5/2021 12:05 AM

63   Luxury condos                                                                                                                 3/4/2021 11:48 PM

64   None                                                                                                                          3/4/2021 11:41 PM

65   Traditional homes with yards                                                                                                  3/4/2021 11:35 PM

66   More single family homes. Less high density housing. It is getting congested and even more is being packed in.                3/4/2021 11:28 PM

67   Single family homes                                                                                                           3/4/2021 11:12 PM

68   1 acre lots or more properties                                                                                                3/4/2021 10:59 PM

69   No opinion                                                                                                                    3/4/2021 10:35 PM

70   None                                                                                                                          3/4/2021 10:16 PM

71   Single family homes on .3+ Acre lots                                                                                          3/4/2021 10:00 PM

72   Homes                                                                                                                         3/4/2021 9:56 PM

73   None                                                                                                                          3/4/2021 9:48 PM

74   Single family homes with larger lots                                                                                          3/4/2021 9:43 PM

75   Homes to rent, more affordable homes to buy                                                                                   3/4/2021 9:39 PM

76   Taller home designs that allow for larger garden spaces. Yards are too small in these developer’s hands!                      3/4/2021 9:37 PM

77   Single family homes. Less density.                                                                                            3/4/2021 9:36 PM

78   Keep it single family homes 1/4 or bigger                                                                                     3/4/2021 9:35 PM

79   No more town Houses                                                                                                           3/4/2021 9:33 PM



                                                                         74 / 110
                                                   Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

80    None of the above                                                                                                           3/4/2021 9:25 PM

81    Single family homes!!!! Stop building condos and townhouses!!!!                                                             3/4/2021 9:18 PM

82    Preferably no high density housing                                                                                          3/4/2021 9:17 PM

83    Doesn't matter. Developers control bluffdale city council and leadership                                                    3/4/2021 8:56 PM

84    High density by freeway, low density away from main collectors. Require ample parking!                                      3/4/2021 8:47 PM

85    Single family                                                                                                               3/4/2021 8:46 PM

86    single family homes on one acre lots                                                                                        3/4/2021 7:51 PM

87    PLEASE DO NOT PUT ANY OF THESE I. BLUFFDALE. I love the rural feel of Bluffdale, it’s quiet and we have space               3/4/2021 7:31 PM
      between houses. It isn’t overcrowded. I beg you, please DO NOT bring a “Daybreak” to Bluffdale.

88    Lower density housing                                                                                                       3/4/2021 6:03 PM

89    Garden homes                                                                                                                3/4/2021 5:31 PM

90    Single homes                                                                                                                3/4/2021 4:52 PM

91    Single family homes                                                                                                         3/4/2021 4:30 PM

92    Single family with yards                                                                                                    3/4/2021 3:49 PM

93    None                                                                                                                        3/4/2021 3:48 PM

94    Larger lot homes                                                                                                            3/4/2021 3:24 PM

95    Keep housing as is                                                                                                          3/4/2021 3:15 PM

96    Well spaced out single family homes                                                                                         3/4/2021 3:05 PM

97    Single family homes                                                                                                         3/4/2021 2:56 PM

98    None of these.                                                                                                              3/4/2021 2:53 PM

99    Remove low income housing and less townhomes and apartments                                                                 3/4/2021 2:50 PM

100   Patio Homes- on a slab, w/garage, one level small yard, with common areas and private yard/patio area                       3/4/2021 2:44 PM

101   None of the above.                                                                                                          3/4/2021 2:38 PM

102   Large lot standalone                                                                                                        3/4/2021 1:59 PM

103   None. Single family                                                                                                         3/4/2021 1:58 PM

104   I'm very disappointed in the lack of single family homes. High density housing is getting out of control in Independence!   3/4/2021 1:46 PM

105   None of those. I’m happy with single resident homes                                                                         3/4/2021 1:37 PM

106   Single family homes on .25+ acre                                                                                            3/4/2021 1:36 PM



                                                                         75 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

107   More single family                                                                                                           3/4/2021 1:33 PM

108   None. Please stop developing Bluffdale!!!!                                                                                   3/4/2021 1:21 PM

109   Single residential                                                                                                           3/4/2021 1:14 PM

110   Traditional single family homes                                                                                              3/4/2021 12:58 PM

111   none of the above                                                                                                            3/3/2021 3:04 PM

112   single family. They seem to be on the decline                                                                                3/3/2021 2:26 PM

113   don't need the density of say Herriman                                                                                       3/3/2021 1:00 PM

114   Farm 1 acre                                                                                                                  3/2/2021 12:45 PM

115   Small houses on reasonable size land. Not dense apartments or town homes in small areas.                                     3/1/2021 12:34 PM

116   like things the way they are (large lots)                                                                                    2/28/2021 3:02 PM

117   None of the above                                                                                                            2/24/2021 11:09 PM

118   One acre-lots!                                                                                                               2/24/2021 5:56 PM

119   keep horse property                                                                                                          2/19/2021 8:14 PM

120   We don’t need any of this in Bluffdale.                                                                                      2/19/2021 7:49 PM

121   Single family                                                                                                                2/19/2021 7:08 PM

122   none                                                                                                                         2/19/2021 6:48 PM

123   Only family homes                                                                                                            2/19/2021 6:39 PM

124   Current residents with a Home on a 1+ acre lot having the ability to build another building on thier lot to rent or add an   2/18/2021 3:23 PM
      aprtment in their basement to rent

125   Custom Homes on 1 acrea lots                                                                                                 2/17/2021 5:26 PM

126   Keep 1 acre single house lots                                                                                                2/17/2021 11:16 AM

127   Single Family Homes                                                                                                          2/15/2021 1:53 PM

128   Single family homes. We already have too many townhomes and apartments.                                                      2/14/2021 10:38 AM

129   None of these. Why are you trying to be like everyone else. Why can’t we be quaint and different?????                        2/14/2021 6:59 AM

130   One acre minimum house lots only.                                                                                            2/12/2021 11:13 PM

131   None of the above                                                                                                            2/12/2021 6:47 PM

132   Single Family Homes (knowing that the rest of the east side is going to be all townhomes)                                    2/12/2021 10:30 AM

133   none of the above 1 acre lots that why we live herre                                                                         2/10/2021 10:35 PM



                                                                          76 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

134   1 acre lots                                                                                                                      2/9/2021 7:02 PM

135   Single family                                                                                                                    2/9/2021 1:15 PM

136   1+ acre dwellings.                                                                                                               2/9/2021 8:45 AM

137   Single Family Homes                                                                                                              2/8/2021 9:54 PM

138   Single family homes                                                                                                              2/8/2021 9:09 PM

139   You’ve put enough clusters already                                                                                               2/8/2021 6:01 AM

140   affordable housing                                                                                                               2/8/2021 1:01 AM

141   Single Family                                                                                                                    2/7/2021 3:21 PM

142   We have plenty of beautiful homes! Probably not enough rental options, or senior housing be                                      2/7/2021 6:59 AM

143   Single family residence                                                                                                          2/6/2021 11:43 PM

144   Single family homes, enough high density housing!!                                                                               2/6/2021 9:04 PM

145   None                                                                                                                             2/6/2021 9:03 PM

146   Please only single-family homes on lots no smaller than a half acre.                                                             2/6/2021 8:24 PM

147   single family dwellings                                                                                                          2/6/2021 5:32 PM

148   No!!!                                                                                                                            2/6/2021 5:23 PM

149   Single family no HOA                                                                                                             2/6/2021 3:49 PM

150   I think there is plenty of housing                                                                                               2/6/2021 3:31 PM

151   Single family homes                                                                                                              2/6/2021 3:30 PM

152   None. Is Bluffdale ready to open Pandora's Box and have the current acre or more lot owners sell their properties within their   2/6/2021 2:47 PM
      respective neighborhoods in order to develop their property. Hence capitalizing on the value of their property. I could
      probably put at least 16 units on my property. My neighbors might not like it but who cares. If Bluffdale doesn't care, I
      shouldn't care. I would just be chasing the dollar just like the city. With all of the above, crime will increase. Look at the
      Herriman stats. Who has infiltrated the city council. I am disappointed.

153   None. Stop trying to bring in high density housing. Bluffdale is unique with its larger lots and horse properties.               2/6/2021 2:23 PM

154   None.                                                                                                                            2/6/2021 1:54 PM

155   Single Family Homes                                                                                                              2/6/2021 1:09 PM

156   Traditional single family housing                                                                                                2/6/2021 1:07 PM

157   Larger lot homes                                                                                                                 2/6/2021 1:02 PM

158   Single family homes                                                                                                              2/6/2021 12:24 PM

159   Single family homes                                                                                                              2/6/2021 11:11 AM


                                                                           77 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


160   Free standing homes! No condos or townhouse.                                                                                   2/6/2021 10:39 AM

161   Main floor living single family homes that are smaller in size and affordable for seniors who do not want a senior community   2/6/2021 10:33 AM

162   None                                                                                                                           2/6/2021 10:24 AM

163   None                                                                                                                           2/6/2021 10:12 AM

164   Single family homes that aren’t on postage sized lots                                                                          2/6/2021 9:46 AM

165   None. We’re already crowded enough.                                                                                            2/6/2021 9:27 AM

166   None- i don’t want high density housing to increase in bluffdale                                                               2/6/2021 9:13 AM

167   None. Keep the lots large with land.                                                                                           2/6/2021 8:56 AM

168   Acre lots only                                                                                                                 2/6/2021 8:55 AM

169   Single family homes on large lots                                                                                              2/6/2021 8:47 AM

170   Larger lot communities                                                                                                         2/6/2021 8:40 AM

171   Single family. Why is this not an option? No high density housing                                                              2/6/2021 7:53 AM

172   No more apartments!!!                                                                                                          2/6/2021 7:18 AM

173   None. It already feels like there are too many houses and too many cars parked on the street. Housing options like this        2/6/2021 6:27 AM
      would make it so much worse.

174   Single unit homes. The area is too dense already                                                                               2/6/2021 12:50 AM

175   Single family                                                                                                                  2/5/2021 10:44 PM

176   No more high density housing                                                                                                   2/5/2021 10:43 PM

177   Homes on large lots so we can keep our country feel                                                                            2/5/2021 10:03 PM

178   Single family homes                                                                                                            2/5/2021 10:02 PM

179   Single family low density                                                                                                      2/5/2021 9:49 PM

180   None.                                                                                                                          2/5/2021 9:25 PM

181   Maintain the great residential neighborhoods already in place                                                                  2/5/2021 9:23 PM

182   Single family homes                                                                                                            2/5/2021 9:12 PM

183   I think whatever housing developments are fine                                                                                 2/5/2021 9:04 PM

184   Single family homes                                                                                                            2/5/2021 8:52 PM

185   Single family homes                                                                                                            2/5/2021 8:52 PM

186   Less apartment, high density living                                                                                            2/5/2021 8:37 PM



                                                                          78 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

187   Acre lots                                                                                2/5/2021 8:30 PM

188   Large lots with animal rights                                                            2/5/2021 8:27 PM

189   Residential homes in neighborhoods                                                       2/5/2021 8:14 PM

190   Single family homes                                                                      2/5/2021 8:10 PM

191   Single family homes in large lots                                                        2/5/2021 8:09 PM

192   None of the above                                                                        2/5/2021 8:08 PM

193   More single family                                                                       2/5/2021 7:55 PM

194   Single family homes                                                                      2/5/2021 7:07 PM

195   I don’t like the smaller lots or multi family housing                                    2/5/2021 6:50 PM

196   Single family homes                                                                      2/5/2021 6:13 PM

197   None                                                                                     2/5/2021 5:53 PM

198   Single family                                                                            2/5/2021 5:44 PM

199   None                                                                                     2/5/2021 4:45 PM

200   none of the above                                                                        2/5/2021 2:11 PM

201   Single family.                                                                           2/4/2021 8:29 PM

202   None of these!!! Keep it single family and minimum 1 acre lots                           2/4/2021 6:03 PM

203   Large Lot Developments. Assisted living                                                  2/4/2021 10:34 AM

204   Single family homes on 1 Acre minimum                                                    1/27/2021 5:15 PM

205   Less high-density options!                                                               1/27/2021 9:25 AM




                                                                       79 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




              Q12 How important are pedestrian and bicycle improvements in your neighborhood?
                                                               Answered: 618     Skipped: 2



                              Somewhat
                              Important



                           Very Important




                                 Neutral




                             Unimportant



                               Somewhat
                             Unimportant


                                           0%   10%     20%   30%    40%       50%    60%     70%     80%   90% 100%



ANSWER CHOICES                                                                                RESPONSES

Somewhat Important                                                                            35.11%                   217

Very Important                                                                                28.48%                   176

Neutral                                                                                       19.09%                   118

Unimportant                                                                                   9.06%                    56

Somewhat Unimportant                                                                          8.25%                    51

TOTAL                                                                                                                  618




                                                                      80 / 110
                                  Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




Q13 In your opinion, how important are the following amenities to future park and open space
                                         projects?
                                           Answered: 617     Skipped: 3




                   Walking Path




                     Restroom




                    Playground




                    Picnic Area




                                                  81 / 110
                            Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




      Pavilion




        Sports
   Field/Court




     Bike Path




     Dog Park




Bike/Skate Park




                 0%   10%     20%   30%   40%   50%   60%   70%      80%   90% 100%


                                           82 / 110
                                             Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




                                   unimportant    neutral      important


                     UNIMPORTANT                 NEUTRAL              IMPORTANT             TOTAL         WEIGHTED AVERAGE
Walking Path                            2.13%               14.45%                83.42%
                                            13                   88                   508           609                      2.81

Restroom                                4.25%               17.65%                78.10%
                                            26                  108                   478           612                      2.74

Playground                              6.03%               21.34%                72.64%
                                            37                  131                   446           614                      2.67

Picnic Area                             5.75%               29.39%                64.86%
                                            35                  179                   395           609                      2.59

Pavilion                                6.90%               29.56%                63.55%
                                            42                  180                   387           609                      2.57

Sports Field/Court                      7.55%               31.86%                60.59%
                                            46                  194                   369           609                      2.53

Bike Path                               9.44%               29.80%                60.76%
                                            57                  180                   367           604                      2.51

Dog Park                               31.63%               29.49%                38.88%
                                           192                  179                   236           607                      2.07

Bike/Skate Park                        29.68%               36.82%                33.50%
                                           179                  222                   202           603                      2.04




                                                               83 / 110
                                                   Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

#    OTHER (PLEASE SPECIFY)                                                                                                    DATE
1    Horse trails                                                                                                              3/13/2021 3:42 PM

2    Pools                                                                                                                     3/11/2021 9:22 AM

3    Mountain bike trails                                                                                                      3/9/2021 7:43 PM

4    Swimming pool                                                                                                             3/9/2021 8:47 AM

5    We need more variety of parks as our community grows                                                                      3/8/2021 3:00 PM

6    Drinking Fountains!! I cannot, for the life of me, understand why the new playground on Noelle Nelson has NO drinking     3/8/2021 2:59 PM
     fountains?!? Was this an oversight or on purpose? If on purpose, I definitely don’t get it.

7    We need dogs banned from non-dog specific parks to mitigate all the dog shit everywhere.                                  3/8/2021 12:13 PM

8    Pedestrian bridge/tunnel over/under train tracks                                                                          3/8/2021 10:06 AM

9    Dirt trails for bikes and horses!!!                                                                                       3/7/2021 8:40 PM

10   make sure to be able to upkeep what is already here.                                                                      3/7/2021 2:45 PM

11   It'd be nice to have designated paths such as daybreak but perhaps a level of improvement for runnings/cyclist safely.    3/6/2021 10:24 PM
     Check out Amsterdam

12   We have great parks just focus on upkeep and maintaining                                                                  3/6/2021 7:24 AM

13   We already have all of those things.                                                                                      3/5/2021 10:06 PM

14   Public pool/rec center                                                                                                    3/5/2021 4:37 PM

15   Make the price on renting a pavilion affordable.                                                                          3/5/2021 1:39 PM

16   Pickleball courts are most important!                                                                                     3/4/2021 11:48 PM

17   All abilities park                                                                                                        3/4/2021 11:28 PM

18   Bluffdale has PLENTY of park space already.                                                                               3/4/2021 11:06 PM

19   Benches along the paths/trails                                                                                            3/4/2021 11:02 PM

20   Road bikes cause enough issues. Don't give them more of a reason to terrorize our streets                                 3/4/2021 9:35 PM

21   Better Internet infrastructure.                                                                                           3/4/2021 9:33 PM

22   Ponds, creeks and water features connected to parks and trails                                                            3/4/2021 9:25 PM

23   Pickleball courts                                                                                                         3/4/2021 9:22 PM

24   People can travel to a park. We have Wardle Park that's a million acres. Quit pandering to every neighborhood needing a   3/4/2021 8:47 PM
     park. Fewer.

25   Splash pads                                                                                                               3/4/2021 8:18 PM



                                                                       84 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

26   Running and hiking trails                                                                                                     3/4/2021 6:03 PM

27   Trails that connect safely to Jordan river parkway.                                                                           3/4/2021 3:24 PM

28   Splash pad                                                                                                                    3/4/2021 3:23 PM

29   Swimming pools                                                                                                                3/4/2021 2:56 PM

30   Outdoor activities very important.                                                                                            3/4/2021 2:34 PM

31   400m outdoor track                                                                                                            3/4/2021 2:05 PM

32   Too much dog stuff in Independence already. The dogs are degrading our neighborhood. Put more focus on the kids and           3/4/2021 1:46 PM
     adults enjoyment

33   horse trails to equestrian area, puncture vine control/erradication                                                           3/3/2021 3:04 PM

34   open space                                                                                                                    3/3/2021 2:26 PM

35   I feel we have a good selection of existing park areas                                                                        3/3/2021 1:00 PM

36   Horse areas                                                                                                                   2/24/2021 11:09 PM

37   We have enough parks. We can only keep open spaces if developers are kept out.                                                2/19/2021 7:49 PM

38   Dark skies. No more can we able to see the stars like we did 24 years ago                                                     2/18/2021 3:23 PM

39   Give us space and let us create our own fun like we used to do                                                                2/14/2021 6:59 AM

40   Open space and horse trails.                                                                                                  2/12/2021 11:13 PM

41   Rodeo Arena                                                                                                                   2/9/2021 7:02 PM

42   My neighborhood has amazing access to trails, and I love seeing some many users our walking, riding! Would I’ve to see a      2/7/2021 6:59 AM
     bike park for kids to have fun outside!

43   equestrian spaces                                                                                                             2/6/2021 5:32 PM

44   We already have enough green space in the community. This wouldn't be an issue if the city hadn't held the line on the acre   2/6/2021 2:47 PM
     lots. You could do all this in your backyard or the backyard of your neighbor.

45   More courts - especially basketball, tennis and pickleball. They're always full.                                              2/6/2021 1:09 PM

46   The park in the Day Ranch area needs to get done! Many people moved to this area for that reason and we don’t see any         2/6/2021 11:05 AM
     movement/urgency/updates on that project. I know, there are no guarantees in terms of timing, but PLEASE make this a
     priority. With all the construction in this are a park would be a godsend for the residents here.

47   None                                                                                                                          2/6/2021 10:33 AM

48   No dog parks please                                                                                                           2/6/2021 7:18 AM

49   Pool!                                                                                                                         2/6/2021 5:12 AM

50   Disc golf                                                                                                                     2/5/2021 9:49 PM



                                                                           85 / 110
                                               Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

51   Updates to the rodeo grounds                                                       2/5/2021 8:27 PM

52   equestrian paths                                                                   2/5/2021 2:11 PM

53   Splash Pad                                                                         2/4/2021 8:29 PM

54   Safe Horse trails                                                                  2/4/2021 7:07 PM

55   Equestrian trails                                                                  2/4/2021 10:34 AM

56   We have most all of those, a waste of taxpayer money                               1/27/2021 5:15 PM

57   Trails for horses                                                                  1/27/2021 9:25 AM




                                                              86 / 110
                                             Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




                 Q14 Using the map above, what part of Bluffdale City do you reside in?
                                                      Answered: 617     Skipped: 3




                              1




                              2




                              3




                              4



                                  0%   10%     20%   30%    40%       50%    60%     70%    80%   90% 100%



ANSWER CHOICES                                                                     RESPONSES

1                                                                                  26.90%                    166

2                                                                                  21.72%                    134

3                                                                                  48.95%                    302

4                                                                                  2.43%                     15

TOTAL                                                                                                        617




                                                             87 / 110
                        Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey




Q15 What others issues are important to consider for Bluffdale City's future?
                                Answered: 410   Skipped: 210




                                        88 / 110
                                                   Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

#    RESPONSES                                                                                                                          DATE
1    We need a new Mayor. Someone with a new perspective and willing to make changes.                                                   3/14/2021 4:56 PM

2    Good roads and retail/grocery stores!                                                                                              3/14/2021 2:37 PM

3    Rail transportation                                                                                                                3/13/2021 6:54 PM

4    No billboards!                                                                                                                     3/13/2021 3:42 PM

5    We need more commercial development: businesses that are close and will give us a better tax base.                                 3/12/2021 8:26 AM

6    Encouraging the success of small/local businesses. Creating a city of inclusion for all cultures and lifestyles.                   3/12/2021 7:14 AM

7    Keep housing density low. We have such a unique opportunity with so much land to develop in such a desired area.                   3/11/2021 4:12 PM

8    Reconsider the Public Works building location                                                                                      3/11/2021 11:41 AM

9    14600 S is too busy, and there are no side walks to get to the trails and parks.                                                   3/11/2021 9:22 AM

10   Please don’t allow for overpopulation and development like Herriman! It’s a nightmare there. Please attempt to keep                3/10/2021 9:37 PM
     Bluffdale peaceful and great.

11   How to keep the country feel here.                                                                                                 3/10/2021 5:49 PM

12   It has been really concerning to see the obstructionist views of a small, very vocal minority of residents carried over so fully   3/10/2021 2:53 PM
     into city governance and planning. Bluffdale City openly objects to connectivity with adjacent cities and has severely limited
     commercial development. In the rare situations that commercial development is an option, there have been poor decisions
     made in terms of use (i.e. funeral home in strip center, hobby caves on a large, visible, easily accessible parcel). If
     Bluffdale is to have any sort of revenue stream from commercial development, the city must step up to actively guide
     development, increase population density in an appropriate and thoughtful manner and incentivize quality, revenue-
     generating businesses to the community. Otherwise, the city will be left with a low population base living on large lots with
     sky high property tax assessments, no amenities and a crumbling city infrastructure.

13   No spot zoning. Keeping upscale and nice apartments in the commercial and high residential area.                                   3/10/2021 10:09 AM

14   Enough roads and options to handle the growth years to come. MORE SHOPPING AND DINING!!                                            3/10/2021 8:28 AM

15   Time to get to I15                                                                                                                 3/9/2021 9:10 PM

16   A                                                                                                                                  3/9/2021 8:44 PM

17   The mine. The dust from the mine is terrible. And the quality standards for the developers.                                        3/9/2021 7:43 PM

18   I live on an acre lot, I have horses. Herriman and Riverton have a grown-up around us, we have nowhere to ride our horses          3/9/2021 6:08 PM
     in this area other than up yellow Fork Canyon. Which now sounds like will be taken over by Mountain bikers. The growth
     that we have seen in Herriman and Riverton is overwhelming, our infrastructure cannot withstand this. I just do not want to
     see what little open space is left destroyed. I do not want to see our neighborhood being able to divide lots into half acre
     portions and build homes, as Draper is doing. Over population in the state is becoming overwhelming.And with that comes
     over building!

19   I would like to see Bluffdale begin to improve the city's overall look. Right now it feels very much like an older community       3/9/2021 12:52 PM
     with out many amenities. I would really like to see bluffdale try and mimic what surrounding communities like Lehi and


                                                                         89 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

     Riverton have done. I would really like to see shopping, restaurants, grocery stores, etc. be brought in so that we don't have
     to go into surrounding cities for our basic needs.

20   Find a way to force (tax and penalties perhaps) sand/gravel extraction companies to comply with air quality regulations,             3/9/2021 8:47 AM
     enforce covering of trucks hauling materials from the pits and finally, return a depleted pit to it's original state.

21   The continued safety for everyone in neighborhoods and parks.                                                                        3/8/2021 9:36 PM

22   Our water quality is awful. There is so much sand in it.                                                                             3/8/2021 9:09 PM

23   No high density housing                                                                                                              3/8/2021 8:43 PM

24   Transparency amongst city administrators and elected officials.                                                                      3/8/2021 8:01 PM

25   Keep animal and agricultural rights! Bluffdale residents will never stop fighting for this                                           3/8/2021 7:45 PM

26   Don't overcrowd with the prison site!                                                                                                3/8/2021 7:02 PM

27   Encroachment on established residential neighborhoods. Avoiding Spot zoning                                                          3/8/2021 6:35 PM

28   The tunnel on 146000 south under the railroad tracks needs to be widened!                                                            3/8/2021 5:24 PM

29   More business, development, restaurants, diversity demographically                                                                   3/8/2021 4:30 PM

30   Renewable/efficient energy                                                                                                           3/8/2021 3:50 PM

31   Lower property taxes                                                                                                                 3/8/2021 3:39 PM

32   Detail notices of upcoming city hall meetings not just the date and time. We really need more improvements on our rodeo              3/8/2021 3:00 PM
     grounds

33   Divertity                                                                                                                            3/8/2021 2:39 PM

34   The amount of traffic that wil be on porter rockwell for individuals trying to get to the corridor and redwood                       3/8/2021 2:10 PM

35   Don’t overpopulate unless you plan for traffic first. I avoid businesses in downtown, and in places like Sandy because the           3/8/2021 12:41 PM
     traffic is terrible. I’d hate to see loads of high density housing go in as well. The single family home market feels like a thing
     of the past. Those large apartment and condo complexes seem to attract riff-raff and I don’t feel Bluffdale’s police force has
     kept up. If you’re going to add loads of office buildings please try to keep them close to the freeway and away from
     residential housing...those people are also going to need places to eat.

36   Need tennis court                                                                                                                    3/8/2021 12:37 PM

37   Dog crap everywhere                                                                                                                  3/8/2021 12:13 PM

38   We have grown rapidly and the main roads are not for the demand especially near the railroad tracks. There is a beautiful            3/8/2021 11:28 AM
     park right near the tracks but there is no side walk connected to get to the park easily from the neighborhoods. There is also
     only parking options on one side. It would be nice if there was a sidewalk that connected to the Jordan parkway parking and
     you can walk up to it. That is a very scary road but there is no other connection to the neighborhoods or even for bike riders

39   Protect the overall integrity of the community and keep the small town feel. Don't do what Herriman and Lehi are doing by            3/8/2021 11:03 AM
     overbuilding without the infrastructure to support it.




                                                                          90 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

40   Adding a center (turning) lane to 14600 S. will help the flow of traffic better during peak travel times.                         3/8/2021 10:55 AM

41   grocery store/shopping center                                                                                                     3/8/2021 10:46 AM

42   Too much high density housing. Would like to see more single family homes with larger property sizes.                             3/8/2021 10:39 AM

43   As traffic is increasing we would appreciate the addition of some traffic lights in and out of Noelle nelson. Tx                  3/8/2021 10:34 AM

44   How they are going to handle prison ground being developed                                                                        3/8/2021 10:28 AM

45   Convenient grocery                                                                                                                3/8/2021 10:22 AM

46   A recreation center would be the biggest win for our city! We cannot keep going to Herriman or Draper for activities. There is    3/8/2021 10:18 AM
     nothing in Bluffdale for our children. Recreation centers provide a great place for the community.

47   Please fix 146 S. from I-15 down past the bridge. We should have two lanes on each side, or at least a turning lane in the        3/8/2021 10:09 AM
     middle of the lanes. Also, bypassing the bridge has to be fixed as soon as possible. That is only going to get harder to do in
     future yrs. It backs up big time during rush hour and it prob should have been fixed 5 yrs ago.

48   No more high density housing. It congests traffic.                                                                                3/8/2021 10:08 AM

49   The train overpass on 146th S. When will that be fixed so there can be a constant flow of traffic?                                3/8/2021 10:07 AM

50   No more light-industrial and storage unit facilities. These are an eyesore and there are plenty already.                          3/8/2021 10:00 AM

51   Bringhurst Station, will it be connected to porter rockwell just north of that neighborhood? Or will the only entrance be from    3/8/2021 9:56 AM
     Redwood Rd. Will Bringhurst ever be connected to pony express?

52   Grocery stores and tennis courts                                                                                                  3/8/2021 9:37 AM

53   Be ready for the growth of the future of what’s going to happen to the prison                                                     3/8/2021 9:33 AM

54   Bringing grocery, restaurants, coffee shops, gas stations and car washes. Road improvements for the increase in traffic           3/8/2021 9:19 AM
     especially on 14600 S between I-15 and Redwood. Cleaning up 14600 S industrial and commercial areas. Creating more
     open space/nature areas and dog parks and NOT creating more splash pads, parks or schools. There is already far too
     much centered around children in the Independence area, there are lots of adults and adult households here that need
     entertainment too whether that be restaurants/bars, gyms, coffee shops, nature trails, etc.

55   Traffic, especially coming from the west. If they build like they zoned the property, we're in trouble.                           3/8/2021 8:22 AM

56   Lowering taxes                                                                                                                    3/8/2021 7:32 AM

57   The Mayor and City Counsel are doing a good job.                                                                                  3/8/2021 7:27 AM

58   Please do not sell Bluffdale out like they did in Draper and Sandy. Those places are turning into total dumps now. Keep the       3/7/2021 8:40 PM
     spirit of Bluffdale alive!!!!

59   half acre lots make it a little more affordable for families. Easier to sell as property owners. Would Not like to see lot's of   3/7/2021 2:47 PM
     apartments or condos. Herriman and Riverton are getting too many. Too much traffic and people.

60   Code inforcement should be able to get quicker response to issues that have been existing for years. If there is an               3/7/2021 2:45 PM
     ordinance then enforce it or get rid of the ordinsnce




                                                                          91 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

61   All of our tax money is going to go to Draper once the prison moves. I highly recommend getting some retail spaces in            3/7/2021 9:31 AM
     bluffdale ASAP so our kids can have city sports leagues and other important community building activities.

62   We should get a an insta care or ihc type of clinic nearby or a Bluffdale hospital. A gym. Anything to get people out and        3/6/2021 10:46 PM
     moving their bodies to lead healthier lives.

63   I realize Bluffdale was once 1 acre lots and horse property. So was Draper in the early 2000's. I'm sorry to say to other        3/6/2021 10:24 PM
     residents Bluffdale would need to capitalize as Draper did or Bluffdale could end up Riverton City. We need more of
     everything. Housing some lighter density to bring population to attract business growth. Business growth is needed for
     better city revenue. If you'd like any citizen assistance I'd be happy to Volunteer Todd Greene greene.todd.c3@gmail.com

64   Hiding the power lines. Adding gas stations and commercial business. We also need to clean up the everyday streets and           3/6/2021 9:15 PM
     make the city look nicer.

65   Deciding what they want the city to look like and feel like. Avoiding cheap building materials (chain link and vinyl fencing),   3/6/2021 9:05 PM
     requiring the use of masonry on store fronts, limit the warehouse style building (unless they make it more attractive),
     connect neighborhoods (Harmon Day to Perry Farms), remember that the vast majority of the city's population does not own
     an acre lot, but we all call Bluffdale home. We can honor the tradition, and still allow smart development.

66   The amount of dust from the gravel pits makes it difficult to enjoy the outdoors.                                                3/6/2021 7:18 PM

67   Increased commercial development and affordable housing                                                                          3/6/2021 2:19 PM

68   More shopping center, grocery stores and road improvement                                                                        3/6/2021 1:39 PM

69   Making things affordable for everyone raising prices isn’t gng to help anyone                                                    3/6/2021 1:35 PM

70   Overcrowding                                                                                                                     3/6/2021 1:14 PM

71   City council being more united. The person that flipped out on the mayor was intense and that was a little too much for us.      3/6/2021 11:58 AM

72   Mostly I’m tired of having to drive so far for groceries and dining out!                                                         3/6/2021 10:39 AM

73   Tax revenues from commercial property.                                                                                           3/6/2021 10:12 AM

74   Geneva Rock must go. Capitalize on the prison relocation. Wind and solar energy solutions (windmill and solar panels)            3/6/2021 8:46 AM

75   Air quality - stop digging at point of the mountain!! Stop building high rise apartments and condos!!                            3/6/2021 8:22 AM

76   Over population                                                                                                                  3/6/2021 8:13 AM

77   Proper planning for inevitable growth.                                                                                           3/6/2021 7:24 AM

78   The east side is the red headed step child of Bluffdale. The old residence need to realize that times are changing and this      3/6/2021 5:55 AM
     city isn’t a farm city anymore. We need more money coming into our city through businesses.

79   Schools. The survey didn’t include anything about future school houses and schooling types such as standard public               3/6/2021 1:43 AM
     schools vs these charter schools

80   Bigges it’s the one way underpass                                                                                                3/6/2021 12:50 AM

81   Lower water fees                                                                                                                 3/5/2021 10:34 PM




                                                                          92 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

82    Keeping high or “higher” density developments out of Bluffdale.                                                                  3/5/2021 10:27 PM

83    Amenities. We need grocery stores and restaurants.                                                                               3/5/2021 10:06 PM

84    Open spaces.                                                                                                                     3/5/2021 9:20 PM

85    Crime, our community is experiencing more crime                                                                                  3/5/2021 8:37 PM

86    More educational opportunities for higher level students. Mountain Ridge and Riverton HS are far away and while there is         3/5/2021 8:33 PM
      Summit Academy it would be great for there to be another public HS soon

87    Culinary water instead of secondary water                                                                                        3/5/2021 8:18 PM

88    We would love a car wash in the area as well. The corner on Bangerter is finally getting some businesses but we would love       3/5/2021 8:14 PM
      a grocery store there!

89    Sports fields for our own sports leagues for kids and adults with a rec center                                                   3/5/2021 7:42 PM

90    Grocery Store, NO MORE HIGH DENSITY HOUSING!!!, Road improvements.                                                               3/5/2021 6:33 PM

91    Get a Mayor that takes action and not make major mistakes like what happened to 146th south redwood road.                        3/5/2021 6:00 PM

92    Community activity play a key role in establishing the relationship with in the community. High school / community college       3/5/2021 5:49 PM
      for students .

93    Traffic                                                                                                                          3/5/2021 2:40 PM

94    No Bluffdale high school. I think we should have our own high school.                                                            3/5/2021 2:21 PM

95    Maintain quiet feel to neighborhoods with areas of shopping near highway. Do not punch 15000 S through to Herriman.              3/5/2021 2:13 PM

96    Safety                                                                                                                           3/5/2021 2:04 PM

97    A good city plan, while I believe the market is a good indicator of what’s needed all types of property are needed               3/5/2021 1:52 PM

98    Wider roads. Delete 1 lane bridge.                                                                                               3/5/2021 1:49 PM

99    A county rec with pools would be nice.                                                                                           3/5/2021 1:39 PM

100   I have a young family, and can understand people wanting amenities. But I also feel like trying to turn Bluffdale into one of    3/5/2021 12:52 PM
      our neighboring cities, full of shopping, traffic and high density housing is a mistake. Our rural feel and open space is what
      drew many of us here in the first place. Rec centers, shopping, dining... they are all available minutes down the street. At
      the end of the day, I'd prefer to come home to our beautiful and non-commercialized neck of the woods.

101   Crosswalks for kids Possibly a library?                                                                                          3/5/2021 12:15 PM

102   Affordable single family homes not high density, updated schools                                                                 3/5/2021 11:50 AM

103   Speed limits, parking, crime                                                                                                     3/5/2021 11:33 AM

104   Stop high density. Keep Bluffdale acreage for large lots! People move out here for land and space for a reason! ****Have the     3/5/2021 10:05 AM
      city council actually LISTEN to the people!!****

105   As being part of the independence community my main frustrations have been a poor job of planning roads, parking and             3/5/2021 10:01 AM


                                                                          93 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

      other infrastructure. Most of the roads have turned into 1 way roads because everyone parks on the street. I just would like
      responsible development where these types of issues are thought about. There are a lot of spaces in independence where
      additional parking could have been built in or still could be added to resolve these issues. I have no issues with the higher
      density development when it is done intelligently and responsibly which is simply not the case in Independence. Love the
      community and I don't plan on moving any time soon but shame on whoever developed the community and shame on
      whoever approved it for doing such a bad job of planning that type of stuff.

106   Shopping                                                                                                                          3/5/2021 9:59 AM

107   Been moved out here 14 years ago because we like the Worl atmosphere. It is since become really densely populated with            3/5/2021 9:38 AM
      multi family units and poor traffic the the 1st thing that needs to go into a development is traffic patterns that don't impact
      the existing residences

108   Don’t forget our roots!! Small town within big cities.                                                                            3/5/2021 9:30 AM

109   Rec Center                                                                                                                        3/5/2021 9:08 AM

110   Dividing west/east of redwood residents. We already ruined 1 acre lots out East and now you’re slowly trying to move west         3/5/2021 9:07 AM
      with commercial and high density housing.

111   Keep part of bluffdale having larger lots                                                                                         3/5/2021 8:58 AM

112   Bypass routes to limit through traffic. Porter Rockwell completion should be prioritized.                                         3/5/2021 8:50 AM

113   No more high density housing. Better roadways, especially 14600 south. Stay strong on not having 14400 south connect to           3/5/2021 8:48 AM
      herriman, that would be disastrous.

114   Bigger lots for houses                                                                                                            3/5/2021 8:39 AM

115   Traffic patterns. Speed                                                                                                           3/5/2021 8:33 AM

116   Road connectivity through prison site once that is gone. Recycling needs to come every week, not just biweekly. Let’s add         3/5/2021 8:26 AM
      glass recycling!

117   A big fully equipped gym. Rec center                                                                                              3/5/2021 8:23 AM

118   Getting rid of the one way bridge and making it an overpass.                                                                      3/5/2021 8:16 AM

119   There is a lot of "us vs them" fighting within Bluffdale today, and obviously we will get nowhere with that attitude. We          3/5/2021 8:13 AM
      already lost land (the annex to Herriman which borders my property) and now the "west/east" contention which is absurd. I
      have lived in Bluffdale for 24 years, first as an east of Redwood person and now the last 18 years as a west of Redwood
      person and both cases I had the old-school vision of moving here with my horses (which I have had the entire time I've
      been here-both east and west!) and being 'left alone'. I have seen and witnessed the positives and the negatives of the city
      growth. I am bewildered by the people who want to move to over an acre of land with a large house only to do nothing with
      the property but amass a junkyard and allow their many dogs to run at large. I do see a definite increase in lack of simple
      respect and common courtesy, and sadly this seems to be a side effect of city growth. All I can do if I want to try to enjoy
      my little piece of home here is further retreat as a hermit. Zoning and code violations are treated by my neighbors as a 'who
      cares I will do what I want because nobody will stop me' attitude and they are right, it doesn't matter what our HOA's or city
      regulations state, no one takes it seriously and nothing is ever done. It is extremely disheartening to live as a law abiding
      and conscientious citizen when surrounded by those who constantly take what they want, do whatever they want, and make
      living here a hell sometimes. I read about all the fuss of zoning for a senior living development and though I am personally


                                                                          94 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

      not for higher density than my acre plus, I would in a mere heartbeat trade for that to be bordering my property rather than
      the majority of my current neighbors. I would absolutely love to be able to once again walk out my own front door without
      taking a taser with me in fear of attack from the dogs next door. I have given up on anything happening to ever fix that,
      according to animal control I need to "be neighborly" and go next door and talk to the people about keeping there dogs from
      my yard and charging me--how am I supposed to walk to that house when I can't even go to my own mailbox??? And how is
      it 'right' that I can do nothing legally about it unless I have proof the dogs physically attacked me??? No thanks, I would
      rather arm myself to go out my front door than volunteer for a dog attack! I would love to sit out on my back deck again
      enjoying a barbeque in peace without my conversation being drowned out by motorcycles and atv motors and dust in the
      yard behind me. I'd love to look out at my yard and enjoy the birds visiting my feeders and watch my horse graze in my
      pasture without seeing the many old delivery trucks, semi trailers and old cars parked to rust away just through my fences
      in the background. I used to be proud of living in Bluffdale, but now I look forward to when I can leave for literally "greener"
      pastures. I used to have neighbors who cared about their property and cared about the people they live by, now we are but a
      few scattered about a web of "progress" and "growth". In a nutshell, we as a city need not just set zoning and regulations
      but ENFORCE the violations. If there are no consequences for poor behavior what does it even matter to create laws and
      codes? We lack simple unity and "comm-unity". I truly hope my words were read with an open mind and not discarded as
      petty complaints and useless rambling. I would love to be a part of the change we need if my assistance would be of any
      use. I realize these surveys are meant as anonymous, but I will leave my personal email in case you would like any further
      discourse or better yet, would like to come to my home and witness first hand what I see/hear/live with daily.
      pairofnewfs@hotmail.com Thanks for caring about our city.

120   Move out industrial, bring in grocery/food. Make the streets better                                                                3/5/2021 8:07 AM

121   The plan for what happens with the land the prison is on                                                                           3/5/2021 8:02 AM

122   Keeping clean                                                                                                                      3/5/2021 7:56 AM

123   Churches                                                                                                                           3/5/2021 7:56 AM

124   If 14600 South is improved, provide pedestrian/bicycle access to the commercial property that will be developed at the             3/5/2021 7:47 AM
      prison site such as a pedestrian overpass.

125   The timely completion of porter Rockwell to redwood                                                                                3/5/2021 7:44 AM

126   It’s getting SUPER crowded -feels like we are on top of each other’s space and development is not close to being                   3/5/2021 7:39 AM
      completed yet! Yikes! Can’t imagine when it’s done-is there going to be enough room for all kids to be in school and have
      the proper care and attention? When there’s Too many apartments rentals -there’s the problem of short term living causing
      people to not really care about the city/area (littering, property damaging, stealing etc) some people don’t take ownership bc
      it’s not theirs because they know they’re temporary-not permanent residences that’s how I feel about a lot of apartment
      rentals -they are great but not when there are many more of them. Thank you for your time

127   Safety, more police officers. Less break ins                                                                                       3/5/2021 7:24 AM

128   If you insist on having higher-high density housing you will force us to move. Fix the roads and keep 1 acre lots.                 3/5/2021 7:22 AM

129   I love to see Bluffdale grow and turn in a wonderful and healthy city but I don’t want my city to turn in another Draper, where    3/5/2021 7:15 AM
      the houses are so close each other and they want to build almost on the roof from the neighbors. I think we can develop
      smart and keep the Bluffdale’s magic in our growing.

130   City council listening to concerns from its residents on speeding through neighborhoods.                                           3/5/2021 7:13 AM

131   Street parking, we need wider streets and houses with large lot options so we are so stacked onto each other                       3/5/2021 7:02 AM


                                                                            95 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey


132   Crime. We have seen an increase in break ins and theft as more higher density housing is added to the city                           3/5/2021 6:58 AM

133   Working better with developers and HOA’s                                                                                             3/5/2021 6:24 AM

134   Less low income apartments. There seems to be a lot more crimes in the neighborhood because of drugs as well as                      3/5/2021 5:50 AM
      vandelism. More single family homes. More shopping and entertainment. As well as restaurants.

135   Larger home lots in independence, bury power lines, grocery store and restaurant options, larger open parks with lots of             3/5/2021 4:32 AM
      trees (think central park).

136   Fix the bridge at the round-a-bout                                                                                                   3/5/2021 1:37 AM

137   Please don’t fill available space or try to compete with Riverton or Draper or Herriman. I LOVE that it feels distanced from         3/5/2021 1:16 AM
      some Of the city- busy-ness but is still so close to so many amenities.

138   What will become of the city center or land replacement of the prison. Making an iconic city center similar to what the salt         3/5/2021 1:15 AM
      lake tenple does for salt lake. Would be really neat. I’m also not opposed to a Bluffdale temple :)

139   Make it really easy and cost-effective for residents to start small businesses. Minimize red tape and time to                        3/5/2021 12:16 AM
      permits/business licenses.

140   Front runner train station, medical clinics, new I-15 interchange                                                                    3/5/2021 12:07 AM

141   City library, rec sports for kids                                                                                                    3/5/2021 12:03 AM

142   The area directly south of the prison property is going to be most important for growth in the future for the city                   3/4/2021 11:48 PM

143   Grocery stores and snow plows and youth sports                                                                                       3/4/2021 11:41 PM

144   Explicitly allowing helicopter helipads on larger commercial and larger residential properties of 1+ acres that meet FAA             3/4/2021 11:35 PM
      requirements. This avoids the ambiguity in current Bluffdale laws as it is not explicitly restricted and federal law via FAA
      explicitly permits it with private land owner permission. I think this would strike the right balance of permissiveness and
      safety.

145   Keep the balance of larger residential land parcels. Connect I-15 to redwood.                                                        3/4/2021 11:28 PM

146   Planning for parking when creating a neighborhood. Having a central mailbox put into all new developments. Police who                3/4/2021 11:28 PM
      enforce the law

147   I really wish we had a cute quaint Main Street. A street that speaks to the heritage and history of Bluffdale. However, I just       3/4/2021 11:28 PM
      hope we can move into 2022 with more retail options, Grocery stores, and Less of an industrial feel to the city. Also, what
      are the plans for the abandoned home on the south side of 146000 South right off the freeway exit? That house is full of
      graffiti, the windows are broken. It is a horrible eyesore and I hope there is a plan for cleaning it up and getting rid of it, or
      fixing it up. It makes a horrible first impression of our beautiful city.

148   Over population                                                                                                                      3/4/2021 11:27 PM

149   Event center,hospital,museum                                                                                                         3/4/2021 11:14 PM

150   Safe traffic flow to avoid congestion.                                                                                               3/4/2021 11:13 PM

151   Retail, restaurants, grocery stores are all needed! We shouldn’t be taking all our business to neighboring cities.                   3/4/2021 11:12 PM


                                                                            96 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

152   Fix the bridge problem on 14600 south. It’s only going to get worse. Also, no more industrial warehouse space.                      3/4/2021 11:06 PM

153   Maintaining the increasing property values and keeping it a desirable place to live                                                 3/4/2021 11:03 PM

154   Some streets are too dark with no post or lights are not working. Indepence hopefully is the last high density housing so we        3/4/2021 10:59 PM
      dont keep attracting robbers and porch pirates to bluffdale, closer located police dept,

155   Keep it small and country                                                                                                           3/4/2021 10:59 PM

156   Phasing out mining in exchange for green energy. Finding a modern identity that honors the past but looks toward the future.        3/4/2021 10:57 PM
      What could Bluffdale be known for?

157   Na                                                                                                                                  3/4/2021 10:56 PM

158   Roads that can handle amount of traffic passing through the city.                                                                   3/4/2021 10:54 PM

159   Grocery stores and single family homes                                                                                              3/4/2021 10:53 PM

160   No more warehouses. Not even one. Develop smart for retail tax revenue and invest in making it beautiful in residential             3/4/2021 10:48 PM
      areas. Independence has been allowed to be so badly developed (insufficient green space, insufficient parking, ugly
      warehouses). It feels like we exist just to generate property tax, but to invest in. Everything is about sacrificing our comfort
      while absolutely preserving the comfort of those to our west.

161   N/a                                                                                                                                 3/4/2021 10:48 PM

162   Embrace the country vibe but allow some growth and aesthetic various small, mid and large homes and lots sizes. Looking             3/4/2021 10:45 PM
      forward to some really cool businesses and restaurants in the space near Redwood and Bangerter

163   Flow of traffic                                                                                                                     3/4/2021 10:41 PM

164   NA                                                                                                                                  3/4/2021 10:34 PM

165   Grocery store                                                                                                                       3/4/2021 10:31 PM

166   Limiting the amount of home’s turned into rental units.                                                                             3/4/2021 10:30 PM

167   Let's not lose our sense of a close-knit community. Our people need to be more involved in the community.                           3/4/2021 10:28 PM

168   Visitors parking areas                                                                                                              3/4/2021 10:21 PM

169   Agricultural rights                                                                                                                 3/4/2021 10:16 PM

170   Dog park. Enough traffic lights when all is finished.                                                                               3/4/2021 10:13 PM

171   Plan for growth, making strategic zoning changes and embrace density                                                                3/4/2021 10:08 PM

172   Moving of the prison.                                                                                                               3/4/2021 10:00 PM

173   I would love a rec center. I know we are small but a rec center would be a great way to bring in funds v8ia sports leagues          3/4/2021 10:00 PM
      and jobs, as well as providing recreation year round. Right now we have to go swim or play sports in Lehi, Draper or
      Riverton. I would like to keep those funds in our own city. I also think retail businesses (grocery and dining) are vital to keep
      our residents money in Bluffdale.




                                                                          97 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

174   Addressing the mink farm                                                                                                      3/4/2021 9:58 PM

175   Stopping the animosity the wear side has for the east.                                                                        3/4/2021 9:58 PM

176   Accommodating growth, looking forward to the suburb Bluffdale is becoming and finding balance between rural and               3/4/2021 9:58 PM
      suburban city ideals and management.

177   The safety of residents and school kids along Porter Rockwell Blvd. The increasing prevalence of street racers throughout     3/4/2021 9:54 PM
      the city The increase in the number of vehicle break-ins Insufficient parking being allocated in neighborhoods Insufficient
      police presence

178   The damn bridge                                                                                                               3/4/2021 9:48 PM

179   Safety and security for citizens with the growth                                                                              3/4/2021 9:47 PM

180   Single family home development and retail options                                                                             3/4/2021 9:43 PM

181   Continue to invest in police! We appreciate them.                                                                             3/4/2021 9:38 PM

182   Living Future Challenge. We should be building a city that does more than reduces our footprint, but adds positives           3/4/2021 9:37 PM
      handprints into our designs. Think for the future and use nature as our guide.

183   Californians hostile takeover of our valley. And idiots in draper government having a negative impact on us                   3/4/2021 9:35 PM

184   Bringing in more than one High speed Internet provider when homes are built.                                                  3/4/2021 9:33 PM

185   Allowing strategic growth from old Bluffdale without turning into Riverton, Herriman, South Jordan                            3/4/2021 9:25 PM

186   Traffic concerns. Such as 14600 S and the Freeway entrance/exit.                                                              3/4/2021 9:22 PM

187   Less churches, Mormon. Its space that can be better used.                                                                     3/4/2021 9:18 PM

188   We need to stop building so many condos and town houses in section 3. Its getting so overcrowded. And we NEED retail          3/4/2021 9:18 PM
      stores - grocery, target or Walmart, dining options, etc.

189   Recreation programs                                                                                                           3/4/2021 9:17 PM

190   Getting a new mayor, city manager and engineer. The city council has no back bone. Push overs                                 3/4/2021 8:56 PM

191   protecting the rural and equestrian appeal.                                                                                   3/4/2021 8:52 PM

192   Don't connect streets to Herriman. They made their decision when they put high density housing against Bluffdale.             3/4/2021 8:47 PM
      Connecting would kill our traffic.

193   14600 S Bridge light is a on going issue. 14600 s in general will be an issue once Mt view is done.                           3/4/2021 8:45 PM

194   Roads. Make sure there is a lot of planning regarding future traffic. 14600 by the railroad underpass is a mess.              3/4/2021 8:32 PM

195   N/A                                                                                                                           3/4/2021 8:18 PM

196   The road under the tunnel. Traffic.                                                                                           3/4/2021 8:12 PM

197   one acre horse property                                                                                                       3/4/2021 7:51 PM



                                                                         98 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

198   More street lights and better internet. We only get 15mb and our only choice is centurylink. CenturyLink can’t increase the      3/4/2021 7:31 PM
      speed and we have no other option.

199   Transportation is the main. Then accessibility to groceries and food                                                             3/4/2021 6:37 PM

200   Keeping tax dollars here. Bringing other residents here to shop!                                                                 3/4/2021 6:28 PM

201   Make sure Herriman doesn't use 144th or 150th as connection roads.                                                               3/4/2021 6:03 PM

202   Family entertainment ie: Movie Theatre                                                                                           3/4/2021 5:31 PM

203   Parking                                                                                                                          3/4/2021 5:21 PM

204   Scalability and sustainability of housing growth                                                                                 3/4/2021 5:03 PM

205   Safety Safety Safety.... With condensed housing it seems that more crime come with it.                                           3/4/2021 4:52 PM

206   Expanding the cemetery. Allowing thoughtful exceptions to one-acre zoning. Finding a happy medium to growth and                  3/4/2021 4:00 PM
      maintaining a rural atmosphere. Large lots/landscaping/water-use issues.

207   The light under the train tracks has got to go and the lane should be widened.                                                   3/4/2021 3:55 PM

208   When the prison moves draper will have a very important and impressive piece of land to develop. Bluffdale has many              3/4/2021 3:49 PM
      opportunities to do the same but seem to just bring in or care about commercial buildings which are not beneficial to the
      residents and future of Bluffdale and its growth

209   Retention of acre lots.                                                                                                          3/4/2021 3:48 PM

210   The mayor has been in office too long. He’s complacent and caters to the smaller / older Bluffdale population. Who cares         3/4/2021 3:32 PM
      about the rodeo. Bluffdale used building permits to pay for rodeo years ago instead of developing the east side of redwood.

211   Living in the independence area we are so close to the Jordan river trail but the one lane RR underpass does not provide a       3/4/2021 3:24 PM
      safe route to walk or Bike to connect to it. Some sort of direct connect trail from Independence Area to those trails on the
      west side of the RR would be amazing.

212   Addressing the traffic on 146th, getting more neighborhood parks, getting an affordable grocery store, having a community        3/4/2021 3:23 PM
      feel around the city center with shopping, dining and parks. No more high-density housing.

213   I want wider roads. 14600 bridge is really inconvenient, in the mornings is really difficult and time consuming to get through   3/4/2021 3:22 PM
      that intersection and it doesn't need to be like that. Widen that area and remove the light

214   Police department                                                                                                                3/4/2021 3:15 PM

215   Addition of business that serve the community outside of employment opportunities. More retail, less industrial                  3/4/2021 3:06 PM
      developement. Zone 3 of the city should be key in this development as this is the fastest-growing portion of the city with
      much different needs due to the density of development.

216   Salt water pools like daybreak                                                                                                   3/4/2021 2:56 PM

217   Please remember that people move to Bluffdale for a REASON. We do not want to be overrun with apartments and                     3/4/2021 2:53 PM
      townhouses. We like SPACE.

218   Stop with all the kid stuff! Adults live here as well with nothing to do!                                                        3/4/2021 2:46 PM


                                                                            99 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

219   Traffic congestion. Safe places for youth activities close to housing.                                                                3/4/2021 2:34 PM

220   We need to keep some of our open space/untouched land. Not all of it needs to be developed                                            3/4/2021 2:05 PM

221   The divide between the citizens east and west of Redwood. Those of us on the east side of Redwood often feel like                     3/4/2021 1:58 PM
      Bluffdales red headed step kid.

222   I moved here to the high density part thinking the retail was coming and apparently it isn’t. I was hoping for walkability. Even      3/4/2021 1:55 PM
      a convenience store would be amazing. Public transportation would be great as well. We also need better internet. We could
      use more sports fields and a theater for the high school. These are quality of life issues that would really make a difference.

223   Bluffdale has a lot of potential, that's why we moved here, but we need to be willing to let businesses in and focus on               3/4/2021 1:46 PM
      amenities for residents. It's taken far too long to make not enough progress. With the opening of Porter Rockwell through to
      Herriman, I'm counting on Bluffdale to step it up and finally make it feel like I'm living in a legitimate, well planned city.

224   Small retail commercial growth focus. Absolutely no big box (Walmart) stores. No more actual high density (apartment,                 3/4/2021 1:43 PM
      townhome) approvals. Actual enforcement of street parking (no parking snow signs are useless). Enforcement of parking
      and traffic issues in independence. Incentivize small commercial retail new businesses through agreements with retail
      zoned landowners.

225   It's important that we're able to control traffic with all the growth. Getting in and out of a neighborhood shouldn't feel like I'm   3/4/2021 1:41 PM
      on I-15.

226   A community center would be incredibly beneficial. There are so many residential areas that a community center would                  3/4/2021 1:40 PM
      benefit everyone. A place with a pool, gym, basketball courts, etc.

227   Give residents something to do on the weekend so we aren’t traveling to other cities to do this                                       3/4/2021 1:39 PM

228   Growing but not over population.                                                                                                      3/4/2021 1:33 PM

229   Controlling development                                                                                                               3/4/2021 1:29 PM

230   Sound buffer from noise (regional park, Bangerter Hwy, ec.).                                                                          3/4/2021 1:26 PM

231   Please stop developing Bluffdale. I know most people think money is the most important thing, but building a tax base is              3/4/2021 1:21 PM
      not critical! Keep Bluffdale rural, keep costs and spending down, and please stop developing our town. It is getting ruined
      and turning into a carbon copy of every other salt lake county community.

232   More commercial in certain locations where it makes sense to bring in tax revenue. We need a grocery store!                           3/4/2021 1:14 PM

233   The lane under the bridge on 14600 needs to be a 2 lane.                                                                              3/4/2021 1:06 PM

234   The lack of retail shopping and dining is a high priority for me. Also there is a big need for infrastructure to accommodate a        3/4/2021 12:58 PM
      rapidly growing population.

235   The City is not "rural" as some residents believe. The City needs thoughtful planning to protect the heritage of the City and         3/4/2021 12:40 PM
      allow growth in a logical and sensible way. The City is located to have a little everything any resident desires.

236   Civility when opinions differ. More open mindedness to new ideas. Realizing that the old way is not always the best way.              3/4/2021 12:35 PM

237   Transferring prison out as soon as possible.                                                                                          3/4/2021 9:54 AM

238   Bluffdale needs to start thinking about the future of many young families living in this area, we can’t always drive 10-20            3/3/2021 10:20 PM


                                                                            100 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

      minutes just to get to a store!

239   Stay country & family oriented                                                                                                      3/3/2021 4:44 PM

240   Please preserve the quality of life in the old part of Bluffdale. If we are able to do that, the city will remain one of the best   3/3/2021 3:04 PM
      places to live in the valley. If we allow development to overtake us, it will be just like everywhere else. Herriman is hideous.
      Please do something about the puncture vine so we can enjoy the canal trails and bridle paths (maintain bridle paths with
      access to the equestrian park/arena). Help encourage residents to keep their sidewalks clear (and trees trimmed), so
      walkers can enjoy the sidewalks. Keep Bluffdale a special place to live!! Thank you.

241   Fiscal Responsibility                                                                                                               3/3/2021 2:26 PM

242   I'm concerned regarding the visual footprint of commercial in our bedroom community. We need commercial but with the                3/3/2021 1:00 PM
      right appearance. Please reduce digital and tall signs. Example the sign at Bluffdale elementary is often extremely bright at
      night and difficult to pay attention to oncoming cars with a flashing digital sign. Who could I chat with more, happy to help.
      Randy Winegar 801-541-2560

243   Keep Bluffdale rural please don’t Trump it into Herriman or Riverton that’s why we left Riverton you all are starting to sound      3/2/2021 12:45 PM
      like the city Council of Riverton special interests

244   I believe the 1-acre min lot size is a thing of the past. I believe it has been obsolete for 20 years. Bluffdale's past             3/2/2021 11:54 AM
      government gave away much of our town's future revenue potential to Herriman because a group of the older residents
      could not see change coming and get in front of it. We have the opportunity to responsibly amend some of the vacnat land
      parcels going forward to higher density. There is no reason that quarter acre lots cannot be incorporated into the high
      percentage of one acre neighborhoods. This idea that the majority of land west of Redwood should remain 1-acre or larger
      has to be a thing of the past. Bluffdale opens the door for another Gerald Anderson type of levied discrimination lawsuit at
      that point. Doubt the city coffers can handle that. We need a ton more retail options. We are 25 years behind the curve on
      that. We need some finality to the GIGANTIC FAIL that 14600 S has been for 20 years. We need SAFE pedestrian options
      on 14600 S. Thank you.

245   The round a bout by the one way bridge needs to be fixed!!! It's dangerous and a road hazard. Make the two lane junction            3/1/2021 12:34 PM
      going west on 14000 just one lane so cars in right lane don't fly through round about almost hitting cars inside round about,
      plus put flashing lights indicating drivers yield to cars in round a bout on ALL access points.... OR a better option would be
      to take out round a bout and put in a traffic light! (Or, the best option is to bypass the one way bridge entirely by building a
      better traffic route and new road. But until, then try implementing other idea. )

246   How to make the roads better. I look at recently tar/graveled roads and they are starting to crack after a year. Wish it wasn't     3/1/2021 11:12 AM
      happening so quickly.

247   STAY COUNTRY LIKE IT IS. BETTER CONTROL AT HOME BUSINESSES (CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT ETC)                                             2/28/2021 3:02 PM

248   Diverse tax revenue options to slow property taxes. Rex center.                                                                     2/25/2021 10:43 PM

249   Keep Bluffdale rural!                                                                                                               2/24/2021 11:09 PM

250   To realize Bluffdale isn't supposed to fit some supposed mold for a "big city". We're NOT a big city and we, the people, don't      2/24/2021 5:56 PM
      want to be one. Most of us came here for the country-style life and we're tired of seeing it erode away due to snake-oil
      "elected" officials and over zealous city employees who apparently feel beholden to developers. Such a shame & disgrace.

251   Good planning so Herriman doesn’t overtake our roads (or city)                                                                      2/23/2021 3:51 PM



                                                                          101 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

252   Safety - there appears to be constant issues with burglary at homes and speeding                                                    2/23/2021 12:36 PM

253   Expediting the dog park                                                                                                             2/22/2021 10:20 PM

254   keeping the country lifestyle                                                                                                       2/21/2021 4:18 PM

255   Community pool                                                                                                                      2/19/2021 11:31 PM

256   keep it rural & family oriented, growth with minimal impact to life style                                                           2/19/2021 8:14 PM

257   We don’t want more development. Leave Bluffdale as it is! It is turning into Riverton or even worse, Herriman.                      2/19/2021 7:49 PM

258   To continue giving volunteer opportunities like community emergency response team (CERT), HAM radio emergency                       2/19/2021 7:08 PM
      communications, and volunteers in police service (VIPS)

259   keeping the acer lots. In 10 years there will be no other place like this in the valley. Yes that means no grocery stores,          2/19/2021 6:48 PM
      because of number of roof tops. I am even am ok with higher taxes if it means keeping the acer lots. In the long run our
      property values will be incredible.

260   Keeping population down                                                                                                             2/19/2021 6:39 PM

261   Agriculture rural lifestyle on one acre lots                                                                                        2/19/2021 2:49 PM

262   we need business tax revenue. Small shopping complex with a Sprouts, boutique or a hair salon like complex.                         2/18/2021 3:23 PM

263   Please Keep Open Space and No High density housing west of Redwood Road.                                                            2/17/2021 5:26 PM

264   Keeping greedy developers out                                                                                                       2/17/2021 11:16 AM

265   The significant number of land locked lots - usually tied to super narrow lanes. As part of the Master Plan, please consider        2/16/2021 7:23 PM
      ways that those lots may be freed up and safely accessed.

266   Sufficient water                                                                                                                    2/15/2021 2:24 PM

267   Keeping Bluffdale Rural and a sanctuary from the business of the surrounding area.                                                  2/15/2021 1:53 PM

268   Any new construction, residential or commercial should be required to have fiber internet laid to the property. Bluffdale           2/14/2021 10:38 AM
      should join Utopia.

269   Leave space for us to explore. More hose and hiking trails. No build                                                                2/14/2021 6:59 AM

270   Please focus on making our beautiful city more rural and equestrian for us and future generations. Raise taxes as needed.           2/12/2021 11:13 PM
      Please keep Bluffdale special, not just another high density city like Herriman. I think most of us love Bluffdale a little rough
      around the edges, we don't need street lights, sidewalks, etc. We love open spaces and dirt horse trails. Thank your and
      God bless Bluffdale.

271   Keep the traffic out and keep some open spaces! Just because there's a field doesn't mean u have to build on it.                    2/12/2021 6:47 PM

272   Community activities-rec center                                                                                                     2/11/2021 11:40 PM

273   Don’t try to control every breath we take, and don’t in courage neighbors to tattle on each other                                   2/11/2021 8:10 PM

274   Keep growing!                                                                                                                       2/11/2021 7:07 AM



                                                                          102 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

275   Please. No more high density housing.                                                                                             2/10/2021 10:16 PM

276   Light pollution at night Open burning ordinances Traffic (speeding)                                                               2/10/2021 2:26 PM

277   Strong police and fire departments and adequate funding for them. Salt Lake County currently should not be trusted for            2/10/2021 10:48 AM
      support in major emergencies that may have political implications or in a wide-spread natural disaster.

278   The rodeo arena does not water evenly                                                                                             2/9/2021 7:02 PM

279   Winco! Thanks for your dedication for improving and including the voice of the individual                                         2/9/2021 2:34 PM

280   Tackling infrastructure with growth in the community and making 146th south have more amenities like a small grocery              2/9/2021 10:43 AM
      store or other food options for families

281   Thanks                                                                                                                            2/9/2021 8:45 AM

282   High volume of traffic and excessive speeding on Porter Rockwell Blvd. Remove roundabout at 146000 S and 1000 W.                  2/8/2021 9:54 PM
      Reroute 146000 to continue straight instead of veering and going under the trestle bridge. One business would need to be
      moved but it would be easier to widen the road and overall safer and more efficient. Traffic often gets backed up at the
      roundabout causing somewhat of a gridlock if you can’t get into the roundabout which seriously backs traffic up.

283   More localized businesses, but not so many that Bluffdale becomes overcrowded or swamped with traffic.                            2/8/2021 9:09 PM

284   Protecting the 1-5 acre, more “rural” areas from being overtaken by high density housing. This includes never allowing the        2/8/2021 8:56 PM
      subdivision of existing 1 acre lots into smaller, half lots or flag lots. Anywhere this has been allowed has just created a
      mess and effects property values and increases the population/density in these areas. Look at where Riverton and Herriman
      have allowed this. It looks terrible. I paid a lot of money for my 1 acre lot to have space. The last thing I want is a house
      being built in my neighbor’s back yard. Those of us with large lots moved here for space and privacy. Please do not allow
      changes to the existing zoning. Also, I am not interested in the city taking over our secondary water system. I feel like my
      water shares were stolen from me by the city without any notice or consent. I don’t want the city interfering with our system.
      We don’t need the city’s “help”. We are doing just fine as it is. The city has to do a much better job of attracting real
      revenue producing businesses that are useful for the residents. So far, we seem to keep getting obscure businesses that
      aren’t of much use or value to me as a resident. I still spend my money in Riverton or Herriman. The only place that gets
      my business in Bluffdale is Maverik. There’s nothing else around of any use to me. And finally, get rid of Connie! She is not
      an elected official yet runs around like she owns the place. She is rude and I am not happy that my tax money is paying for
      her. Too many residents, including my family, have been pushed around and threatened by her. I have complained about her
      I’m the past and then discover that after several complaints from various residents she was hired as a full time employee.
      How did that happen? Now I see her continuing to push people around and intimidate city employees and elected officials. It
      makes no sense to me that our tax dollars are paying for such a person. She needs to go! She is not good for the future of
      Bluffdale. She’s like a continuation of Claudia Anderson. Look at the damage she did to our city. We will never recover the
      losses we experienced under her “leadership”. Connie will be just as destructive if allowed to continue working for Bluffdale.

285   We really need better internet options. With kids all doing so much more over the internet for school, this is a huge priority.   2/8/2021 8:30 PM
      Comcast can't be our only option. Even at their fastest, most expensive tier, I can have 2 zoom classes going while I'm
      working. The Upload speed isn't enough. We should consider Utopia or getting fiber to the home from other providers.

286   FREE dumpsters available for garbage and green waste throughout the year to be placed in subdivisions for cleanups like           2/8/2021 8:14 PM
      West Jordan city does to keep the city clean

287   Economic Dev Bring back the Demo Derby                                                                                            2/8/2021 6:34 PM



                                                                         103 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

288   Don’t let it become over grown                                                                                                      2/8/2021 6:16 PM

289   Keeping traffic low and slow in order to have a safe place for people to walk.                                                      2/8/2021 5:34 PM

290   Safety crime                                                                                                                        2/8/2021 5:24 PM

291   Interconnected walking and bike trails to connect neighborhoods with schools, work, shopping                                        2/8/2021 5:24 PM

292   Preserving the small town feel by defying borders, having a town center, and encouraging community activities as gathering          2/8/2021 3:37 PM
      events to promote camaraderie among residents.

293   Acquire more commercial businesses like grocery stores, gas station, big box store like sams club, fast food, etc. to keep          2/8/2021 3:27 PM
      taxes down for the home owners

294   Dogs. Dog parks. There is no space for dogs. Dog poop is an issuer! And a Heath and safety issue. We need dog parks                 2/8/2021 8:04 AM

295   Horse friendly trails near horse property. Preserve our way of life!! Sadly Bluffdale is one of the only places left to even        2/8/2021 6:01 AM
      have horses or a hobby farm! This is Utah not California! Stop pushing us life long residents out for Californians that want to
      change everything to crap!

296   More commercial development! Grocery stores, Targets, fast casual dining!                                                           2/7/2021 3:21 PM

297   Wish there were a neighborhood gym- the draper athletic center is tiny and the closest one to us                                    2/7/2021 2:38 PM

298   Senior housing on the west side of Redwood Road. Retail shops, grocery stores. Less industrial buildings. Nice cute retail          2/7/2021 2:26 PM
      buildings that enhance the beauty of Bluffdale.

299   Grocery Stores, Senior Housing, Cute Retail Shops. No more Industrial Buildings. No more Storage Units                              2/7/2021 2:20 PM

300   We need businesses- I would also like to see us with a bike park - Herriman and Draper are developing trails and bike               2/7/2021 6:59 AM
      parks. So for now I spend all my time/money there.

301   Getting the dog parked up and running, less home construction and getting a GROCERY STORE AND RESTAURANTS                           2/6/2021 11:52 PM

302   Get rid of that terrible under the bridge drive through light. Open that road for better access. Finish Porter Rockwell faster.     2/6/2021 9:19 PM
      Less high density housing. No more round abouts!!! Fine the old junk yard business’ that pile junk. More police patrol
      through neighborhoods.

303   Don’t overdo it and make the city overrun/overcrowded but make life good/convenient for the people who want to live here!           2/6/2021 9:04 PM

304   Don’t want over development                                                                                                         2/6/2021 9:03 PM

305   Resist the pressure to bring tracks lines in public transit that destroys the skyline and brings a lot of crime. Draper certainly   2/6/2021 8:24 PM
      did not anticipate that as the tracks line ends at Draper at any time during the day their library which is across the street is
      full of transient people with their technology in the plugs it is very uncomfortable and makes the neighboring park kind of
      trashy and unsettling. Since Bluffdale would also be an end of a line area it will certainly attract individuals from all
      throughout the valley so be mindful of this pressure

306   14600 South needs HELP! It is TOO narrow for the amount of traffic that flows on it everyday. The road does not allow               2/6/2021 7:54 PM
      sufficient room for bikes and pedestrians. Left- turning vehicles are at risk of getting rear-ended. The upcoming new Porter
      Rockwell road and bridge will not alleviate the problems. Citizens will continue to use 14600 because it is closer to the
      schools, neighborhood and residences they reside. This includes families living on the west side of Redwood Road, north of



                                                                          104 / 110
                                                     Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

      14600 South. We need a three lane road (left hand turn lane), bike lanes and sidewalks. Just waiting for the day when
      someone will be seriously injured or killed because the city will not address the problem. The city used funds to widen and
      improve 14300 South, which is NOT as busy and dangerous as 14600 south. Why? Why not use funds or save up funds for
      improving our MOST dangerous roads? The new 14600 straight road is a good effort to help with the problems we have
      traveling on it, but there is so much more that needs to be done.

307   More broadband internet choices. There are PLENTIFUL fiber providers in Utah and Bluffdale deserves to have access to               2/6/2021 6:03 PM
      them. Find a "creative" way to make the Mink farm go away. Bluffdale needs more housing - not Mink farms. Politicians and
      creative attorneys make these things happen all the time - I would hope our city can do the same.

308   to maintain its unique rural feel as cities close in around it, if people want that then let them move to those surrounding         2/6/2021 5:32 PM
      cities, bluffdale should fight to remain unique in this

309   I would like to see smaller lot sizes so my kids can afford to buy a house here.                                                    2/6/2021 5:10 PM

310   Don't put in too much high-density housing, our current road infrastructure cannot support it.                                      2/6/2021 4:24 PM

311   Safety                                                                                                                              2/6/2021 3:54 PM

312   Don't permit dense housing!                                                                                                         2/6/2021 3:49 PM

313   The city needs to hold the builders responsible for not keeping their contractual obligations. Also if the city inspectors have     2/6/2021 3:31 PM
      admitted to not actually inspecting homes what is their job then? The city inspectors have given the impression they are in
      the pockets of the builders and we the hone owners are paying the price for it.

314   A grocery store or gas station                                                                                                      2/6/2021 3:30 PM

315   Attract tech companies.                                                                                                             2/6/2021 2:56 PM

316   Maintaining the feel and integrity of the city. That is why people moved and move here. Maybe consider creating another             2/6/2021 2:47 PM
      city where you can create high density housing. I am very concerned with the nature of the questions. There were not a lot
      of options or questions about keeping Bluffdale as a rural community. I ask why? Has the direction already been planned
      and our opinions really don't matter? What a mess.... This is so junior varsity, as it relates to city planning. I have lived all
      over the country and the world and the directions Bluffdale city is taking has a certain and proven outcome. More crime,
      higher taxes, property values will eventually decrease, etc. Look at where West Valley was 30 years ago and look at where
      it is now. This is where you are going. Look at Aurora Illinois, same thing. Just a few examples. Maybe you need to do a
      real study instead of trying to follow a social agenda. The city is not tasked with trying to create affordable housing for all
      and bring social equity to all. I wonder, who is getting a kickback for moving in this direction. It maybe good if we start an
      investigation.

317   Please please please bring us a grocery store.                                                                                      2/6/2021 2:45 PM

318   Better/more internet providers as we are so close to Silicon Slopes. Open up Porter Rockwell--it appears to be completed            2/6/2021 2:25 PM
      already, why isn't it open?

319   Minimizing apartments and high density housing. Minimizing traffic flow through our city.                                           2/6/2021 1:54 PM

320   opportunities for cultural activities                                                                                               2/6/2021 1:21 PM

321   Do NOT strive for the most dense option. We are an outer suburb, not downtown. Along with that thought, absolutely no               2/6/2021 1:09 PM
      high rise or unsightly tall buildings. Very high on my wish list would be a more robust trail network. With how active this



                                                                          105 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

      community is, that'd be a huge thing. Being able to get on the Jordan River Trail system from Independence would be
      amazing if that could become a reality. With how diverse this community is, things that bring people together - coffee
      shops, breweries, etc, that's what we need. Having some of those walkable from Independence would be great.

322   Increase street lighting in Day Ranch. Widening 14600 S should be a high priority.                                             2/6/2021 1:07 PM

323   Bettering the life of existing residents over packing in more                                                                  2/6/2021 1:02 PM

324   We need closer dining option but desperately need a close grocery store                                                        2/6/2021 12:24 PM

325   Affordable housing but not an apartment. I want a house with some land but can’t afford a $500,000 mortgage                    2/6/2021 11:44 AM

326   Different portions of the city have different needs and desires for their development.                                         2/6/2021 11:38 AM

327   Keeping property taxes low by growing our sales tax revenue opportunities.                                                     2/6/2021 11:11 AM

328   A community recreation center would incredible. My worry is that certain things can’t get approved until a population          2/6/2021 11:05 AM
      threshold is met, but we know the population is growing and fast. I understand you can’t just wave a magic wand, I’d love if
      Bluffdale did things anticipating the huge population that WILL be here within the next 5-10 years.

329   Less HOA's                                                                                                                     2/6/2021 10:51 AM

330   I think having our own post office.                                                                                            2/6/2021 10:50 AM

331   Grocery!!! For heavens sake GROCERY!!!...                                                                                      2/6/2021 10:39 AM

332   Bluffdale resident investment opportunities. Pool local funds to keep us invested in growth, safety and development.           2/6/2021 10:36 AM

333   Recreation center is greatly needed! Keep the small town feel! Keep the city arts and events. We love it here!                 2/6/2021 10:12 AM

334   Development of the prison site                                                                                                 2/6/2021 10:07 AM

335   Public library                                                                                                                 2/6/2021 10:00 AM

336   I know it’s hard to make people happy, but I feel like you guys are doing a great job. Thank you for all you do!               2/6/2021 9:46 AM

337   Growth, taxes, community projects, walking trails...we need a grocery store!                                                   2/6/2021 9:39 AM

338   Getting the prison area moved out quickly so we can build more commercial dining, grocery shopping and entertainment           2/6/2021 9:36 AM

339   The open spaces and trails and parks we have are great. Keep it up in regards to public green spaces.                          2/6/2021 9:16 AM

340   To keep the country feel of Bluffdale established. This includes low density housing, horse properties, open spaces, and       2/6/2021 9:13 AM
      heavy traffic kept to the outer skirts of the city.

341   Not sure                                                                                                                       2/6/2021 9:05 AM

342   Too fast of growth and not enough of a living support structure                                                                2/6/2021 8:56 AM

343   No roads between bluffdale and herriman- besides porter rockwell connecting to mountain view corridor. Keep our city           2/6/2021 8:56 AM
      protected with no major roads in the middle of the city.

344   Traffic/ too much housing / loosing all of our beautiful ground /commercial residents/ trucking companies etc                  2/6/2021 8:55 AM



                                                                         106 / 110
                                                    Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

345   Preserving Bluffdale’s rural and open feel. Avoiding the overcrowding and “stack them higher and deeper”approach that          2/6/2021 8:47 AM
      Harriman seems to embrace!!

346   There is an extreme lack of street lamps in every neighborhood making it very unsafe and easier for crimes to occur. I walk    2/6/2021 8:45 AM
      my dog everyday and have been almost hit by cars that cannot see me from lack of appropriately placed street lamps

347   Roads                                                                                                                          2/6/2021 8:40 AM

348   Schools and safe sidewalk for children to cross. A pedestrian overpass from the Day Ranch church to the Jordan River Trail     2/6/2021 8:05 AM
      so kids and cars do not have to cross the tracks or go all the way around to the nearest trail parking lot on 14400 S

349   Most people moved here for the rural feel of this small town and it should be kept that way. There are not many places left    2/6/2021 7:57 AM
      for horse property and to take that opportunity away would be a slap in the face to those who moved here for that very
      reason.

350   We are land locked. People leave Bluffdale to go to work. Provide ways/paths to get to the train. Get some shopping at         2/6/2021 7:53 AM
      redwood and Bangerter people will come.

351   Stop living in the past. We are no longer a farming community. We have the opportunity to build something unique and           2/6/2021 7:18 AM
      instead we keep making cheap (not inexpensive) houses and large apartment buildings with no commercial anywhere.
      Should have taken the example of daybreak and made a real community instead of a town with one road and an empty
      business park.

352   Safety and security due to spike in crime in the area                                                                          2/6/2021 6:43 AM

353   Too many cars park on the street and some on some streets that makes it dangerous because I’m turning almost blindly           2/6/2021 6:27 AM
      into oncoming traffic. Also, the RVs/campers that park by Summit Academy High School seminary block the view of the
      crosswalks and make it unsafe for the kids going to and from school. The walking trail in The Ridge that is behind the
      houses- the houses right there treat the path as their personal property/dumping area.

354   We need more spaces for kids sports. We need fields and a pool. We currently travel half an hour each way daily for these      2/6/2021 5:12 AM
      amenities.

355   I am very concerned with the one lane road going under the bridge. We were told that the growth wouldn’t be so big that we     2/6/2021 1:18 AM
      would need it. We need a wider road. Especially if there is going to be major shopping and housing where the prison sits.
      The heavy traffic from the shopping and housing that will be where the prison is. The fact that we have zero grocery stores.
      Instead we have a plethora of warehouses, dental office spaces and weird businesses that don’t bring a sense so
      community. The fact that we will need a bigger police force. Dense house is horrible now. I would hate to see the rural feel
      go away. The security of the marshlands.

356   Keeping porter rockwells traffic and speed of cars down once the bridge is complete.                                           2/6/2021 1:04 AM

357   Safety                                                                                                                         2/6/2021 12:13 AM

358   Wasteful spending in the city. Crime prevention.                                                                               2/5/2021 11:52 PM

359   We need a rec center or something for children to have.                                                                        2/5/2021 11:10 PM

360   Long term planning so the gravel pit can eventually be well utilized.                                                          2/5/2021 10:27 PM

361   Development near the prison                                                                                                    2/5/2021 10:23 PM



                                                                         107 / 110
                                                       Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

362   Rec center or a pool would be awesome!                                                                                            2/5/2021 10:15 PM

363   Retail, retail, retail. Tired of paying sales tax to Riverton!                                                                    2/5/2021 10:08 PM

364   Bringing in unique businesses and restaurants that are one of a kind to encourage a diverse group of people visiting our          2/5/2021 10:03 PM
      beautiful city.

365   Use the prison relocation as an opportunity to bring in the business, jobs, retail, ect. that will put Bluffdale in the map and   2/5/2021 10:02 PM
      allow for additional tax revenue.

366   Unifying East and West                                                                                                            2/5/2021 9:49 PM

367   Traffic planning done better.                                                                                                     2/5/2021 9:28 PM

368   We need a grocery store and some restaurants. Even fast food. More strip malls along redwood. Redwood should be more              2/5/2021 9:23 PM
      commercialized.

369   Better internet infrastructure                                                                                                    2/5/2021 9:17 PM

370   Synergy with planned prison redevelopment in Draper                                                                               2/5/2021 9:13 PM

371   146th needs to grow before the prison area begins to develop and traffic in the area picks up.                                    2/5/2021 9:12 PM

372   I think the main issue that needs to be addressed is business and shopping needs. I think once the prison moves that that         2/5/2021 9:04 PM
      will be great real estate for a grocery store and other business options!

373   Affordable, Tax revenue from businesses, grocery store on Redwood road and Bangeter highway.                                      2/5/2021 9:01 PM

374   A recreational facility.                                                                                                          2/5/2021 8:55 PM

375   Not connecting the road by the new water tank. The construction on the water tank damaging the ground underneath our              2/5/2021 8:52 PM
      home. The constant shaking it causes to our home all day every day.

376   More police patrolling and street lights                                                                                          2/5/2021 8:50 PM

377   Prepare to fix single lane bridge as volume of drivers continues to increase significantly in this area.                          2/5/2021 8:37 PM

378   Moved hear because of the rural feel.                                                                                             2/5/2021 8:31 PM

379   Moving because your have turned Bluffdale into every-other city. 31 yr resident moving to Montana soon. Good luck with            2/5/2021 8:30 PM
      the shit show you’re created

380   Keeping With the “Rural” feeling as much as possible. Smart growth                                                                2/5/2021 8:27 PM

381   Traffic                                                                                                                           2/5/2021 8:22 PM

382   Over running transportation systems                                                                                               2/5/2021 8:14 PM

383   Organized recreational opportunities for kids, and a pubic library branch.                                                        2/5/2021 8:10 PM

384   Growth                                                                                                                            2/5/2021 8:08 PM

385   Industry doesn't mix well with residential. Blend of living quality with surrounding cities.                                      2/5/2021 7:39 PM



                                                                           108 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

386   Not opening roads to Herriman with all their high density. Please keep their traffic out of Bluffdale!                                2/5/2021 7:30 PM

387   Restaurants / grocery stores/                                                                                                         2/5/2021 7:19 PM

388   Connecting roads and ruining quite neighborhoods                                                                                      2/5/2021 7:07 PM

389   Please don’t ruin the small town feel like they did in South Jordan and opt for revenue instead of a great place to live. They        2/5/2021 6:50 PM
      built to many small lot houses and packed them in so close. People don’t stay in those very long. They are in and out and
      turn over is very short because they realize they want more land. We want neighbors who stay. Improve their homes
      because it’s a great place to live. I lived in one of those neighborhoods before moving to Bluffdale and I hated that every
      week someone else was putting their house up for sale. It was not a long term investment so nobody ever improved their
      yard or planted trees etc. unless your in a huge HOA like daybreak who did it all for you but then people hated the large
      HOA payment so they would move also after they got sick of it. Please keep Bluffdale a great place to stay. Not so
      crowded. Also don’t ever open 14400 south to Herriman. Thank you.

390   Road infrastructure                                                                                                                   2/5/2021 6:18 PM

391   More houses to regulate how many people no apartments or condos                                                                       2/5/2021 6:13 PM

392   Not making it hard for business to come here. Slowing on home development and focusing on commercial and open space                   2/5/2021 5:53 PM
      development

393   NIMBY-ism. Affordable housing initiatives are never overwhelmingly popular at City Council meetings, Planning Board                   2/5/2021 5:50 PM
      meetings, etc, but the reality is is that Salt Lake County has a dwindling amount of developable land left, and we’re pricing
      our children and grandchildren out of the ability to live close to their families. Without prioritizing affordable housing options,
      they will not be able to afford to live in great communities like Bluffdale and Salt Lake County.

394   None                                                                                                                                  2/5/2021 5:44 PM

395   Need more indoor recreation, especially for kids during the winter                                                                    2/5/2021 5:29 PM

396   With The Point development, it'll be nice to have as much shopping and businesses in place in the Independence area as                2/5/2021 5:10 PM
      soon as possible so that those needs are met within Bluffdale city limits. I'd rather those businesses and tax dollars benefit
      our city, and not go to Draper.

397   Finishing current projects in timely manner                                                                                           2/5/2021 5:03 PM

398   Getting residents to be accepting of, and part of, thoughtful change and growth rather than getting run over by it. Citizen           2/5/2021 5:03 PM
      acceptance that east and west Bluffdale exist and both are necessary and positive. Too much NIMBY will hold us back and
      we won’t be prepared for the future.

399   Definitely bringing in business and getting services to the areas that need them.                                                     2/5/2021 4:55 PM

400   ONE ACRE LOT WEST OF REDWOOD PRESERVATION!!!! Cut the fat out of the administration.                                                  2/5/2021 2:11 PM

401   Riding the growth of zone 3 of the city, especially around the future development of the Point (prison site). Expanding               2/5/2021 10:20 AM
      shopping and dining within city limits.

402   Want to able to support local businesses in our city but they don’t exist                                                             2/4/2021 8:16 PM

403   Sustainable and green futures for all of us to ensure less pollution. We need more options to put our money back into our             2/4/2021 8:10 PM
      community and we need to be thinking long term how we grow so we don’t screw it up like Lehi did.


                                                                           109 / 110
                                                      Bluﬀdale General Plan Community Survey

404   Maintaining rural community on west side                                                                                             2/4/2021 7:07 PM

405   Get the speed limit down on 14400 S . People drive 50 mph regularly and there is a park and close to the elementary                  2/4/2021 6:03 PM
      school. Put speed bumps in!

406   Connecting bluffdale to Draper and Lehi through public transportation. Creating community engagement through centralized             2/4/2021 5:57 PM
      retail/shopping/dining within walking distance of high density residential total areas

407   Amphitheater, arena upgrade                                                                                                          2/4/2021 10:34 AM

408   To protect the quality of life, as has been done by our city government since the origin of Bluffdale.                               2/3/2021 10:53 AM

409   Bluffdale has a horse head on its city logo sort of implies that it is a rural area I would like to keep it that way, city Council   1/27/2021 5:15 PM
      has tried to change Bluffdale, most the residents I speak to want it to stay rural with open spaces

410   Please do not allow 15000 S. to connect to Herriman. It will destroy the horse-friendly neighborhoods of "old Bluffdale" and         1/27/2021 9:25 AM
      make it very unappealing for those of us, who moved here for a little space and quiet, to live in this area to stay.




                                                                           110 / 110
                  BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




TRANSPORTATION PLAN




                         Appendices   iii
TRANSPORTATION PLAN




         AUGUST 2017
   - UPDATED FEBRUARY 2020 -
This page intentionally left blank.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i

TABLE OF CONTENTS
TRANSPORTATION PLAN.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... i
INTRODUCTION ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1
    Acknowledgements ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1
    Consultant Team.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1
    Public Involvement .............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2
    Bluffdale Character and Values ........................................................................................................................................................................................ 2
    Plan Vision and Goals.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2
EXISTING CONDITIONS ............................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3
    Purpose .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3
    Planning Scenarios and Growth Projections ................................................................................................................................................................. 3
    Existing Scenario .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3
    Future 2030 Scenario (10-Year Growth) .......................................................................................................................................................................... 3
    Future 2050 Scenario (Build-out) ..................................................................................................................................................................................... 4
    Growth Projections & Travel Demand Modelling ......................................................................................................................................................... 4
    Existing Roadway System .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 9
    Regional Transportation Plans and Connections ......................................................................................................................................................12
    Public Transportation .......................................................................................................................................................................................................13
    Active Transportation .......................................................................................................................................................................................................13
    Level of Service ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................15
    Safety Analysis ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................18
    Future Conditions ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................22
    Travel Forecasting .............................................................................................................................................................................................................23
    Emergency and Priority Snowplow Route Planning ..................................................................................................................................................24
PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................24
    Advertisement Strategy for Open House and Survey ................................................................................................................................................24
    Public Meeting ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................27
    Online Surveys ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................27
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................................................................................................................................33
    Recommended Future Road Classification and Cross Sections .............................................................................................................................33
    Recommended Roadway Improvements for Vehicles ..............................................................................................................................................35
    Recommended Improvements for Active Transportation .......................................................................................................................................37
    Public Transportation .......................................................................................................................................................................................................40
APPENDIX A – SURVEY RESULTS
APPENDIX B – ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PROJECT INFORMATION SHEETS
APPENDIX C – CITY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
APPENDIX D – CHANGES IN 2019 TMP UPDATE
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                1

INTRODUCTION
The Bluffdale Long-Range Transportation Plan was made possible through the Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC)
Transportation Land Use Connection (TLC) program, and it is intended to guide the City of Bluffdale to achieve its goal of
providing a transportation system that promotes safe and productive transportation options for the community.

This plan will begin by discussing the current conditions of Bluffdale and its transportation system. This will include the
city’s demographics, land-use context, transportation infrastructure, connections to nearby communities, and Bluffdale’s
transportation system (e.g., traffic and safety). Next, the results of recent public involvement efforts will be presented and
analyzed to establish the concerns and preferences of Bluffdale residents regarding future conditions. Finally, the plan will
outline and discuss recommendations for meeting the city’s transportation system objectives.

While this plan focuses on vehicle and transit modes of transportation, it also places emphasis on active transportation,
which includes walking and bicycling. Active transportation is an important consideration in a transportation plan
because there will always be those who rely on walking or bicycling as a means of travel. Including active transportation in
this plan may also have economic benefits because such considerations make the city safer and appealing to present and
potential residents.

Acknowledgements
 Bluffdale City                                                       Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT)
 Michael Fazio, City Engineer                                         Bryan Adams, Region 2 Deputy Director
 Grant Crowell, City Planner/Economic Development Director            Heidi Goedhart, Active Transportation Manager
 Trevor Andra, Assistant City Engineer                                Chip Mason-Hill, Region 2 Preconstruction Engineer
 Dan Tracer, Assistant City Engineer
 Jennifer Robinson, Senior Planner
 Caitlyn Miller, Senior Planner                                       Utah Transit Authority (UTA)
                                                                      Kerry Doane, Strategic Planning
 Bluffdale Mayor and City Council                                     Jim McNulty, Strategic Planning
 Derk Timothy, Mayor                                                  Levi Roberts, Planning
 Wendy Aston, City Council
 Travis Higby, City Council
 Dave Kallas, City Council                                            Salt Lake County
 Ty Nielsen, City Council
                                                                      Helen Peters, Program Manager
 Boyd Preece, City Council
                                                                      Travis Jensen, Active Transportation Program Manager

 Bluffdale Planning Commission
 Debbie Cragun, Chair
                                                                      Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC)
 Kory Luker, Vice Chair
                                                                      Megan Townsend, Transportation Planner
 Johnny Loumis
 Stephen Walston
 Traci Crockett
 Holly Brown


Consultant Team

BIO-WEST, Inc.                                                     Hales Engineering
• Andrea Moser, Principal Planner                                  • Ryan Hales, PE, Principal Engineer
• Glen Busch, Planner/GIS Analyst                                  • Jeremy Searle, PE, PTOE, Transportation Engineer
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                 2

Public Involvement
Public involvement is a way to discover what residents think about their own community and what they want for the
future. Collecting, analyzing, and considering public opinion is an important component of any planning effort, not only
because it increases the likelihood of public support, but it also results in community characteristics that align with the
values of the residents. That is why substantial efforts were undertaken to collect public opinion during the initial phases
of this transportation plan. Public involvement for this plan consisted of a newsletter, social media content, an open
house meeting, and two online surveys. Results from these efforts were used to guide the objectives and
recommendations for Bluffdale’s future transportation system. Public involvement results were also used to conceive and
prioritize specific transportation-related projects within Bluffdale.

Bluffdale Character and Values
The City of Bluffdale has retained a generally rural character despite the ever-expanding growth and development of
nearby communities around the Salt Lake Valley. However, as developable land between Salt Lake City and Provo
becomes rarer, Bluffdale has experienced denser growth and mixed-use development, like that seen in Independence.
Now that Bluffdale is beginning to feel the effects of more intense development and growth, a plan is necessary to
accommodate future transportation modes and demands, while also preserving the rural character that makes Bluffdale
a unique and desirable place to live and recreate.

Among the common transportation modes such as motor vehicle, bicycling, and walking, Bluffdale is also home to many
equestrians who use the horse-friendly trail accesses. Equestrian needs at trail intersections with the transportation
network (e.g., those along Redwood Road and Camp Williams Road) must be accommodated and maintained in future
transportation projects.

Plan Vision and Goals
The vision statement and goals of this plan will serve as the guiding principles for the City of Bluffdale’s transportation
improvement efforts.

        Vision: To plan and develop a safe, inviting, connected transportation system that
        accommodates all users and respects Bluffdale’s character and community values.

The following goals and objectives support the vision statement. The objectives should be evaluated periodically to
ensure forward progress in developing and improving Bluffdale’s transportation system.

Goal 1: Improve mobility for all

Objectives
• Develop a multi-modal transportation network that is safe, convenient, and designed appropriately.
• Connect to surrounding destinations while managing roadway connectivity to maintain existing neighborhood
   character.
• Create connections to transit.

Goal 2: Enhance quality of life

Objectives
• Improve safety for all users and for all modes of travel.
• Enhance streetscape aesthetics through design, architectural details, and street trees.
• Support active transportation projects to support physical and environmental health.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                 3

Goal 3: Improve economic vitality

Objectives
• Improve connectivity to parks, schools, commercial destinations, residential areas, and principal routes.
• Implement Bluffdale’s Complete Streets guidelines to enhance neighborhood quality and property values.
• Work to economically balance the access, safety, and mobility along the system.

Goal 4: Maintain existing infrastructure

Objective
• Maintain the transportation system in a state of good repair.

EXISTING CONDITIONS
Purpose
This section discusses the existing (2017) conditions in the City of Bluffdale. This includes current land use, demographics,
and the roadway facilities utilized by automobiles, public transit, pedestrians, and bicyclists. The current roadway levels of
service for each of the major roads in Bluffdale are also analyzed. Knowing existing conditions will provide a baseline with
which future conditions and alternatives can be compared.

Planning Scenarios and Growth Projections
The update to the Transportation Master Plan was done in conjunction with several other master plans in Bluffdale City.
As part of these updates, an overall planning and growth analysis was completed by Hansen, Allen, & Luce. The planning
scenarios were used as the basis for overall growth in the city and was used as the basis for the travel demand model
update. This effort included three planning scenarios: Existing, 2030, and 2050, as described in the following sections.

The basis for each scenario is the number of estimated residential and non-residential units (rather than population). See
Figures 1, 2, and 3. Both unit types were converted to Equivalent Residential Connections (ERCs) as follows:
• 1 residential unit = 1.00 ERC
• 1 non-residential unit = 8.04 ERC

Existing Scenario
The Existing scenario represents development conditions computed from recent (2018 and 2019) data. See Figure 1. As
part of the planning effort, the existing residential and non-residential units were digitized and counted from aerial
imagery and classified by land use and parcel. In some areas the current land use differs from the ultimate land use given
in the City’s Land Use Plan (part of the 2014 General Plan), leading to otherwise unexpected declines in certain unit types
in future scenarios.

The Existing scenario consists of 5,579 ERCs and corresponds to 41% developed relative to the planned land use. See
Table 1 for details.

Future 2030 Scenario (10-Year Growth)
The 2030 scenario adds, beyond the Existing scenario, growth that the City expects to occur in the next 10 years. During
the planning process, City staff identified areas where new development is planned, under construction, or expected to
occur by 2030. See Figure 2. Where possible, the number of new units was obtained from plans of approved
developments; otherwise, the number of units was computed according to the size and density of area, per the City’s Land
Use Plan. Population projections were not used because they are too coarse to reflect growth the City expects in certain
areas with the accuracy needed for this analysis.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                                               4


The 2030 scenario consists of 8,520 ERCs and corresponds to 62% developed relative to the planned land use. The
equivalent annual growth rate from Existing to 2030 is 4.5%. See Table 1 for details.

Future 2050 Scenario (Build-out)
Here, “build-out” means the condition in which all land area within Bluffdale is assumed to be developed at the maximum
density allowed in the City’s Land Use Plan and no further growth occurs. See Figure 3. This is expected to be the case by
2050. The 2050 scenario is independent of the Existing and 2030 scenarios. Population projections were not used because
they may exceed the planned capacity of the City’s land use and are too coarse to predict growth in certain areas.

Given that the build-out planning horizon is some 30 years away, there is considerable uncertainty in the timing, location,
and magnitude of development and the associated infrastructure. As such, build-out projects should be reevaluated as
more information becomes available.

The 2050 scenario consists of 13,721 ERCs and corresponds to 100% developed relative to the planned land use. See
Table 1 for details.

Growth Projections & Travel Demand Modelling
Table 1 summarizes the total number of ERCs estimated for each planning scenario. The land use data and projected unit
counts developed by Hansen, Allen, & Luce, as well as from the zoning map included in Figure 4, were used as the basis
for the assumptions used in the travel demand modelling update for the Transportation Master Plan. The latest Wasatch
Front Regional Council (WFRC) travel demand model was used as baseline, and the socio-economic data in Bluffdale was
compared with the projections and unit counts developed by Hansen, Allen & Luce. This data was then updated to match
the projections discussed here. The results of the travel demand modelling are discussed later in the Transportation
Master Plan.
                                                                     Table 1. Growth Projections by Planning Scenario

                                                                                             Equivalent Residential Connections (ERCs)
                                                                      Bluffdale City
                                                                                               Existing              2030              2050
                                                                            Total:              5579                 8520              13721
                                                                      Source: Hansen, Allen, & Luce


                                                                    15000
                        Equivalent Residential Connections (ERCs)




                                                                                                                                   2050: 13721 ERC

                                                                    12000


                                                                                       2030: 8520 ERC
                                                                    9000


                                                                    6000
                                                                                            Existing: 5579 ERC

                                                                    3000


                                                                       0
                                                                        2015         2020        2025      2030          2035   2040     2045        2050
                                                                                                                  Year
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                         5




Figure 1. Existing Developed Areas and Unit Counts.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                            6




Figure 2. 2030 Projected Growth Areas and Unit Counts.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                           7




Figure 3. 2050 Projected Development and Unit Counts.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                     8




Figure 4. Zoning Map (2017) of Bluffdale, Utah.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                  9

Existing Roadway System

Major Roads
The transportation network in and around Bluffdale is unique, in that the city is essentially bounded on all sides by major
roadways, as explained below:

•   US Interstate 15 (I-15). To the east of the city is US Interstate 15 (I-15), the main north-south corridor in Utah. The
    primary I-15 interchange that services Bluffdale is the 14600 South interchange.

•   Bangerter Highway (SR-154). To the north of the city is Bangerter Highway, also known as State Route 154 (SR-154).
    The intersection of Redwood Road and SR-154 was recently reconstructed as a grade-separated interchange. The 600
    West/SR-154 interchange is currently under construction and will likely service the east side of Bluffdale through the
    prison site in Draper.

•   Mountain View Corridor (SR-85). To the west of the city is Mountain View Corridor, also known as State Route 85 (SR-
    85). This roadway currently consists of two one-way frontage roads but is planned to become a freeway with a
    frontage road system in the future.

•   2100 North (SR-85). South of Bluffdale, in Lehi, is the 2100 North (SR-85) frontage road system. This is also planned to
    become a freeway that will connect I-15 to Mountain View Corridor.

•   Redwood Road (SR-68). In the center of Bluffdale, running north-south, is Redwood Road, also known as State Road 68
    (SR-68). Redwood Road serves as the “Main Street” for Bluffdale, with many of the commercial businesses fronting on
    this road.

•   Porter Rockwell Boulevard (SR-131). This roadway is planned for construction in the near future and will eventually
    become a seven-lane major arterial. This roadway was recently involved in a jurisdictional transfer (also called a
    phased maintenance transfer), where control of 14600 South was given to Bluffdale, while Porter Rockwell Boulevard
    became a Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) roadway.

•   14600 South. 14600 South is an east-west corridor that runs through the middle of Bluffdale. Ownership of much of
    this roadway was recently transferred to Bluffdale in exchange for ownership of Porter Rockwell Boulevard. A
    roundabout was recently constructed at 1000 West. There is a railroad underpass just west of the 1000 West
                                                                                             intersection, which
                                                                                             constrains the roadway to
                                                                                             one lane, and this bottleneck
                                                                                             has historically caused
                                                                                             severe congestion, especially
                                                                                             during peak traffic. However,
                                                                                             a signal was recently
                                                                                             constructed at the underpass
                                                                                             that greatly enhances the
                                                                                             one-way traffic flow at this
                                                                                             location. This has improved
                                                                                             the traffic operations at this
                                                                                             location for now, but it is not
                                                                                             considered a long-term
                                                                                             solution.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                  10

Functional Class
Roadways are often characterized using a hierarchal system called functional classification, which is based on traffic
demand, carrying capacity, and land access. Functional classification determines the purpose of a given street as well as
the appropriate cross section design. Higher classifications provide more mobility (higher speeds) but limited access,
whereas a lower street classification has less mobility (lower speeds) and but more access. Five general classifications are
used to describe the roadways in Bluffdale, including arterial (major and minor), collector (major and minor), and local
street. Each class is defined below. Figure 5 shows a map
of Bluffdale’s current roadway functional classification.

•   Interstate and Freeway. Interstates and freeways are
    limited-access, high-speed travel facilities maintained
    by UDOT.

•   Arterial Street. Major arterials typically connect
    interstates and freeways with minor arterials and
    collector streets. Minor arterials support efficient
    traffic movement.

•   Collector Street. Collector streets conduct traffic from
    neighborhood local streets to other neighborhoods
    or to arterials. They facilitate both movement and
    property access, which requires a balance
    determined by the type of adjacent land uses and
    other factors.

•   Local Street. Local streets primarily provide property
    access (as opposed to mobility) throughout the city.
    Local streets are narrower, have lower speeds and
    low traffic volumes, and are typically built with
                                                               Figure 5. Existing roadway functional class within Bluffdale.
    development.

Roadway Jurisdiction and Ownership
All roads in the City of Bluffdale are constructed and maintained by the city, with the exception of interstates and principal
arterials, which are state highways managed by UDOT. The roadways in and around Bluffdale that are managed by UDOT
are I-15, SR-154, SR-68, SR-131, and a short segment of SR-140 from I-15 to 800 West. All other roads are the responsibility
of Bluffdale.

Cross Sections
The City of Bluffdale previously adopted standard cross sections that are to be used for new construction or
reconstruction of city roadways. These are found in the Bluffdale Standard Drawings ST-7A and ST-7B. The standard
drawings include a cross section for a Major Arterial, Major Collector, Minor Collector, Standard Residential A, and
Standard Residential B roadways. Cross sections are assigned to roadways based on functional class. The right of way
(ROW) and pavement widths in Table 2 are from the previous cross sections required by Bluffdale City Code. The sidewalk
and bicycle facilities recommendations are included in the existing cross sections, though some of Bluffdale’s streets were
built prior to establishment of these standards.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                                    11

Table 2. Typical street cross sections as required by previous Bluffdale City Code.
                                 TYPICAL
                                                      PAVEMENT                                                                BICYCLE
 CLASSIFICATION              RIGHT-OF-WAY                                      SIDEWALKS
                                                        WIDTH                                                                FACILITIES
                                  WIDTH
                                                                                          10 feet wide               8 feet wide bicycle space
 Major arterial                    115–130 feet                  78 feet
                                                                                         on both sides              on both sides or shoulders

                                                                                          5 feet wide                8 feet wide bicycle space
 Major collector                      80 feet                    50 feet
                                                                                         on both sides              on both sides or shoulders

                                                                                          5 feet wide                8 feet wide bicycle space
 Minor collector                      66 feet                    38 feet
                                                                                         on both sides              on both sides or shoulders

                                                                                          5 feet wide
 Local street                       52–55 feet                25–30 feet                                                         N/A
                                                                                         on both sides
Source: City of Bluffdale Street Standards, February 2017, http://www.bluffdale.com/DocumentCenter/Home/View/1835


Traffic Control
An important factor in determining capacity of the transportation system is the types of intersection control. Traffic signals
and stop signs can slow down and limit the capacity of a transportation corridor, but appropriate traffic control is
necessary to ensure access and safety. As of 2016 there were seven signalized intersections within Bluffdale City limits. Six
of these intersections are on UDOT roadways and are controlled and maintained by UDOT. The last signalized location is
the railroad underpass on 14600 South. This is a simple two-phase signal that controls the alternating one-way east- and
westbound traffic flow at the trestle. Figure 6 shows existing traffic control in Bluffdale on all collectors and arterials,
including traffic signals and roundabouts. Stop signs are also frequently used in the city, but because these change
periodically, a stop sign inventory is not included.

Bluffdale City and UDOT have developed a corridor agreement for Redwood Road (SR-68), which is dated June 16, 2015.
The corridor agreement outlines the proposed access spacing and existing and future signal locations on SR-68 within
Bluffdale City boundaries, from milepost (MP) 36.05–40.82.
According to the corridor agreement, the existing and
proposed signals on SR-68 in Bluffdale are as follows:

     •    Camp Williams Avenue, existing
     •    Jordan Narrows Road, future
     •    Milepost 37.73, future
     •    Porter Rockwell Boulevard, existing
     •    Iron Horse Boulevard, Future
     •    14400 South, Existing
     •    13970 South, Future
     •    SR-154 (Bangerter Highway), Existing

The corridor agreement also states that SR-68 will be a
Category 2, System Priority-Rural roadway from MP 36.05
at the Salt Lake-Utah county line to MP 37.80 at Iron Horse
Boulevard. Minimum street spacing is 1,000 feet and
minimum access spacing is 1,000 feet.

The corridor agreement states that Redwood Road (SR-
68) will be a Category 4, Regional-Rural roadway from MP
                                                                               Figure 6. Existing traffic control within Bluffdale.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                              12

37.80 at Iron Horse Boulevard to MP 40.82 at SR-154
(Bangerter Highway). Minimum street spacing is 660 feet and
minimum access spacing is 500 feet.

Existing Traffic Volumes
An extensive data-collection effort was undertaken to obtain
existing traffic volumes on most major Bluffdale roads
between 2014 and 2016. Various sources, including UDOT
traffic volume counts, Bluffdale City counts (from pneumatic
tube counts as well as intersection counts), and counts from
other planning and engineering studies (e.g., traffic-impact
studies) were used. These counts reflect roadway conditions
through 2016. Other completed roadway projects and
developments after 2016 are not included. These traffic
volumes are reported as average weekday daily traffic (AWDT)
in vehicles per day (vpd) in Figure 7.

Regional Transportation Plans and
Connections
Each city neighboring Bluffdale has its own transportation
                                                                Figure 7. Existing traffic counts within Bluffdale.
plan. The following section is a review of some key
considerations of transportation connections and goals of Bluffdale residents.

Draper. Four roadways currently connect Draper and Bluffdale. These routes are Highland Drive (SR-140), SR-154, I-15, and
Pony Express Road (which parallels I-15). All state routes have capacity improvements scheduled as identified in Draper’s
Transportation Master Plan. Also, Pony Express Road will be extended to connect to Lone Peak Parkway and maintained
as a minor collector. Porter Rockwell Boulevard is also planned to extend from Bluffdale into Draper and connect at an
interchange with Bangerter Highway.

Herriman. Transportation plans for Herriman describe Juniper Crest Road as a principal arterial connecting to 14400
South in Bluffdale. In Bluffdale, 14400 South in the vicinity of Juniper Crest Road (where it may possibly connect with
Bluffdale) is a collector street. Bluffdale residents in this neighborhood have expressed a desire for this street to remain a
low-volume road without connection to Herriman. In recent planning efforts, city officials have indicated they do not want
15000 South, 14400 South, 13800 South, or 4000 West to cross the canal system into Herriman. It is believed that if these
connections are made, the streets will become thoroughfares for Herriman and significantly alter the current traffic levels
and neighborhood character in Bluffdale. Several survey comments received during the Bluffdale transportation planning
effort echo the sentiment; however, some residents would like to see some connections to Herriman due to new schools
being constructed by Jordan School District.

Lehi. Two routes will connect Lehi and Bluffdale. These routes are the existing SR-68 and the future extension of SR-85. No
other connections are identified between the two cities in Lehi’s 2010 Transportation Master Plan. The Jordan River Trail
system does connect the Bluffdale and Lehi; however, trails are not covered by this plan.

Riverton. Six existing routes connect vehicle traffic between Riverton and Bluffdale: 4000 West, 3600 West, 13800 South,
2700 West, Redwood Road, and 1300 West. According to the 2008 Addendum to the Riverton City Transportation Master
Plan, two signals are proposed at the intersections of 4000 West/13800 South and 3600 West/13800 South
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                13

Public Transportation
The Utah Transit Authority (UTA) provides public transportation service to the Salt Lake Valley, including options for bus,
rail, and vanpool. However, there are currently no transit stops or stations in Bluffdale. And although FrontRunner also
passes through Bluffdale, stopping in Draper to the north and Lehi to the South, there are currently no stops in Bluffdale.

The UTA conducted a market analysis for Bluffdale and determined that the current city characteristics will not support
public transportation. The UTA is currently conducting a cost analysis to sell public transportation services to cities where
the demand does not meet current criteria so that cities and residents have options for access. Access to public
transportation was frequently mentioned in the Bluffdale transportation planning survey and should be considered.

Active Transportation
A complete transportation system consists of more than just roadways for automobiles. It also includes provisions for
active modes of transportation, including options such as bicycles and walking. For this Transportation Plan, active
transportation only considers facilities within traditional street cross sections like bike lands or sidewalks. Off-street
amenities, primarily trails, are considered in other planning documents such as the 2015 Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation
& Open Space Maser Plan.

                                                                   Bicycle Travel
                                                                   Bluffdale currently has a number of facilities to
                                                                   accommodate bicycles, including dedicated bike lanes,
                                                                   bike routes, and separated trails (Figure 8). Based on an
                                                                   inventory of facilities as well as information collected
                                                                   from stakeholders, the city and its residents would be
                                                                   well served by improvements to this infrastructure.
                                                                   There is a fairly well-established bicycle network west of
                                                                   Redwood Road; however, the area east of Redwood
                                                                   Road (where aggressive residential development is
                                                                   currently occurring) would benefit from the
                                                                   construction of many new active transportation
                                                                   facilities. Bicycle facilities are in high demand along
                                                                   14600 South, which is currently too narrow and unsafe
                                                                   for most cyclists to use.

                                                                   Just as Bluffdale’s roadways are part of the larger
                                                                   regional network for vehicle travel, so too are Bluffdale’s
                                                                   bicycle facilities important for the region’s bicycle travel.
                                                                   To account for regional needs, an assessment of
                                                                   planning documents from surrounding communities
                                                                   and regional planning efforts was conducted to
                                                                   determine existing and planned regionally important
Figure 8. Existing bicycle facilities within Bluffdale.           connections for bicycle travel.

Draper. Bicycle access to Draper from Bluffdale is available via Pony Express Road Highland Drive, and Minuteman Drive,
which connect to Draper’s bicycle infrastructure (4-foot shoulders). Bicycle access from Bluffdale along SR-140 requires
bicycle facilities to maintain this connectivity. There is also high demand from Bluffdale residents for new active
transportation improvements along the entire length of 14600 South. This route is also identified as a critical regional
bicycle linkage in the 2016 UDOT Utah Collaborative Active Transportation Study (UCATS) and in the 2016 Salt Lake
County Active Transportation Implementation Plan.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                             14

Herriman. A 2011 bicycle plan for Herriman identified several desired bicycle connections with Bluffdale, including 13800
South, Rosecrest, 4000 West, Juniper Crest, and 14400 South. Additionally, Herriman’s transportation plans also include
roadway connections with Bluffdale at these locations. However, many Bluffdale residents are opposed to complete
street connections at 13800 South and 4000 West as it increases the potential for new vehicle traffic in the residential
neighborhoods. Bike and pedestrian connections at all three locations are still recommended for access from Bluffdale to
schools and recreation opportunities in the area.

Lehi. Bicycle connections are primarily along Camp Williams Road (SR-68) and represent an important regional
thoroughfare for cyclists.

Riverton. Riverton has recently prepared an Active Transportation Master Plan. Notably, on-street bicycle connections
between Riverton City and Bluffdale City include 1300 West, 2700 West 3600 West, and 4000 West. Bluffdale already has
bicycle facilities along these routes, although improvements could be undertaken at 2700 West to facilitate more efficient
and safe crossing of Bangerter until the interchange is completed. Other off-street connections between Bluffdale and
Riverton proposed in the Riverton City Active Transportation Plan include trails along the Welby-Jacob Canal, Utah Lake
Distribution Canal, Utah and Salt Lake Canal, South Jordan Canal, as well as the Jordan River Trail.

Walking
Safe and continuous sidewalks are an important
component of an active transportation system for
pedestrian use. Bluffdale now requires sidewalks on all
roadways in the city, but that has not always been the
case. Some streets in older neighborhoods do not have
sidewalks because they were developed prior to
establishment of current ordinances. Other rural
locations are missing sidewalks because they have yet
to be developed, though these locations will fill in with
sidewalks over time as the city grows. A map of current
sidewalk locations is presented in Figure 9.

Based on a review of school locations and Student
Neighborhood Access Plans (SNAP) that are posted
online for Bluffdale Elementary and South Hills Middle
Schools, the majority of the roads in Bluffdale have the
potential to be used by students to walk to school.
Other schools do not have SNAP posted, but it can be
assumed (based on current school locations) that all
roads north of Porter Rockwell have the potential to be
used by student pedestrians. Schools are being
constructed in the Independence area, so it is assumed
                                                         Figure 9. Existing sidewalks within Bluffdale.
that those roads will be covered in future SNAPs. Safe
Routes to Schools recommends that sidewalks used by students travelling to school be 5–6 feet wide. Bluffdale identifies
the appropriate sidewalk widths in their cross sections.

Given that all new developments in Bluffdale will have sidewalks according to city ordinance, it is recommended that
Bluffdale prioritize the construction of new sidewalks and pedestrian crossing projects on the arterial and collector streets
that are currently missing these facilities.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                    15

Level of Service

Methodology
Level of service (LOS) is a complex concept for transportation systems because it is dependent upon an estimation of
demand (which can vary daily) and capacity (which is based on prevailing roadway, traffic, and control conditions) both of
which can be very difficult to precisely define. Capacity is essentially the amount of traffic that can theoretically be
serviced by a road while LOS (often termed “quality of service”) defines under what operating conditions this occurs (e.g.,
the amount of congestion, queuing). Conditions where demand exceeds capacity are usually assigned a LOS grade of F
(the worst), while conditions with near free-flow conditions are graded LOS A (the best). In the United States, capacity and
LOS are both defined based on extensive research by the Transportation Research Board found in the Highway Capacity
Manual. The most recent edition of the Highway Capacity Manual is the 6th edition, which was used for this analysis.
While the capacity describes the theoretical limit of traffic on a given road, conditions at capacity (service flow grade E) are
often very poor, and most municipalities and agencies set goals to achieve better LOS grades. The Highway Capacity
Manual 6th edition states that “For cost, environmental impact, and other reasons, roadways are not typically designed to
provide LOS A conditions during peak periods but instead to provide some lower LOS that balances individual travelers’
desires against society’s desires and financial resources” (Volume 1, pg. 5–3). However, there is no universally accepted
LOS standard. The Highway Capacity Manual 6th Edition further states that “…the appropriate LOS for a given system
element in the community is a decision for local policy makers” (Volume 1, pg. 5–3). According to the Institute of
Transportation Engineers Traffic Engineering Handbook (5th Edition, 1999), “[f]or most design or planning
purposes…service flow rates D or C are usually used because they ensure a more acceptable quality of service to facility
users” (page 95).

According to the Subdivision Ordinance in the City of Bluffdale
municipal code, transportation facilities “adjacent to, or impacted by,
the proposed development shall be capable of accommodating the
anticipated traffic loads generated by the proposed development for a
twenty (20) year design period. The City has adopted a LOS C for all
municipal roads and streets” (City of Bluffdale Municipal Code 12-4-
5A3). Each LOS grade is estimated based on the most current edition of
the Highway Capacity Manual methodologies for roadway capacities.
According to the Utah Department of Transportation Roadway Design
Manual of Instruction (May 2007, updated August 2011), LOS D is the
threshold for state roads in urbanized areas (Section 7, page 4).

While a transportation master plan typically analyzes demand and
capacity of links (i.e., for roadways, not intersections), the Highway
Capacity Manual outlines methodologies for determining intersection-
level LOS and not link LOS (except for uninterrupted facilities such as
freeways). Therefore, a correlation must be made between an
intersection LOS and roadway/street LOS. The volume-to-capacity (v/c)
ratio can be calculated for a given segment, which provides a
reasonable method to estimate the operations of a roadway. Roadway
capacities are complex and depend on variables such as number of
lanes, access spacing, traffic signal timing and coordination, the
proportion of left- and right-turns, pedestrian activity, and several other
factors. Figure 10 provides a visual representation and description of
the LOS letter designation.

                                                                              Figure 10. Level of service letter designations.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                                      16

The Wasatch Front Regional Council/Mountainland Association of Governments (WFRC/MAG) travel demand model has
estimated peak hour roadway capacities for all roadway functional classifications as well as adjustment factors to account
for the type of area. For purposes of the Bluffdale Transportation Master Plan, a v/c ratio less than 0.75 was considered
LOS “C” or better. A v/c ratio between 0.75 and 0.85 is considered to be LOS “D.” Table 3 provides a brief description of
each LOS letter designation and the accompanying range of v/c ratios for each LOS.

Table 3. Level of service descriptions and volume-to-capacity (v/c) ratios.
 LEVEL OF                                                                                                                                  v/c
                                               DESCRIPTION OF TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
 SERVICE                                                                                                                                  RATIO
                Extremely favorable progression and a very low level of control (intersection) delay. Individual users
 A                                                                                                                                        0–0.30
                are virtually unaffected by others in the traffic stream.
                Good progression and a low level of control delay. The presence of other users in the traffic stream
 B                                                                                                                                       0.30–0.50
                becomes noticeable.
                Fair progression and a moderate level of control delay. The operation of individual users becomes
 C                                                                                                                                       0.50–0.75
                somewhat affected by interactions with others in the traffic stream.
                Marginal progression with relatively high levels of control delay. Operating conditions are
 D                                                                                                                                       0.75–0.85
                noticeably more constrained.
                Poor progression with unacceptably high levels of control delay. Operating conditions are at or near
 E                                                                                                                                       0.85–1.00
                capacity.
 F                Unacceptable progression with forced or breakdown operating conditions.                                                 >1.00
Source: Descriptions by Hales Engineering based on Highway Capacity Manual 2010 Methodology (Transportation Research Board, 2010).


Roadway Capacities
The capacities for each of the existing roadways were estimated using Highway Capacity Manual 6th edition
methodologies and assumptions made in the WFRC/MAG model (see Appendix C of the Regional Transportation Plan:
2011–2040, WFRC & MAG Transportation Modeling and Analysis Tools, 2011 Base Year Model, Version 8.0). Roadway
capacities and LOS thresholds for each cross section are shown in Table 4.

Table 4. Planning level roadway level of service thresholds.
                                                                             LEVEL OF SERVICE THRESHOLDS (VEHICLES PER HOUR)
 FUNCTIONAL CLASS
                                                                         A                  B                  C                     D     E
 Major arterial (5 lanes)                                             11,400             19,000            28,500             32,300     38,000
 Major collector (3 lanes)                                             5,300             8,900             13,400             15,100     17,800
 Minor collector (2 lanes)                                             3,700             6,200              9,300             10,500     12,400
 Standard residential                                                  2,800             4,600              6,900              7,800     9,200

Existing Level of Service
Figure 10 shows the LOS grade for each roadway segment based on the v/c ratios calculated using recent counts and
estimated roadway capacities. As is shown in Figure 10, the majority of collector and arterial routes currently experience
LOS C or better conditions. Segments with poor levels of service include 14600 South. Currently, this is a two-lane
roadway, with a bottleneck at the railroad trestle just west of 1000 West.

To be consistent with UDOT policy (most arterial roads in Bluffdale are operated by UDOT) and to be more economically
responsible, it is recommended that the acceptable threshold for arterial roads in Bluffdale be updated to LOS D while all
local and collector roads remain at a LOS C threshold.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                 17

                                                                      Bicycle Level of Service
                                                                      The WFRC conducted a study of bicycle level of service
                                                                      (BLOS) and bicycle compatibility index (BCI) for the entire
                                                                      metropolitan area. To calculate BLOS, the WFRC
                                                                      considered 15-minute traffic volumes, number of through
                                                                      lanes, speed limits, truck traffic, pavement surface
                                                                      condition, lane width, and street parking. For more
                                                                      information on the methodology, please see the final
                                                                      report. The current BLOS for Bluffdale (Figure 12) is good
                                                                      except for Redwood Road and 14600 South/SR-140.
                                                                      These routes are the larger, high-volume, and higher-
                                                                      speed roads in Bluffdale, and 14600 South/SR-140
                                                                      currently does not have bicycle facilities and is a
                                                                      prominent east/west route for Bluffdale, which
                                                                      contributes to its low score.

                                                                    The BCI for the WFRC MPO was calculated using several
                                                                    factors, such as presence of bicycle facilities, lane width,
                                                                    traffic volume, vehicle speeds, and other street
                                                                    characteristics. For more information on the
                                                                    methodology please see the final report here. For
                                                                    Bluffdale, the BCI highlights 14600 South/SR-140 as
                                                                    poorly suited for bicycles based on its current street and
 Figure 11. Existing (2016) levels of service within Bluffdale.
                                                                    traffic characteristics. It also highlights Redwood Road,
Minuteman Drive, and some short segments of 3600 West, 3200 West, 2700 West, and 14400 South as somewhat stressful
routes for cyclists. Please see Figure 13 for the BCI map for Bluffdale.




                         Figure 12. Bicycle levels of service as assessed by Wasatch Front Regional Council.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                              18




                        Figure 13. Bicycle compatibility index as assessed by Wasatch Front Regional Council.


Safety Analysis

Crash Data Review
Crash data were obtained from the UDOT Safe Map website (https://udot.numetric.com). The UDOT maintains data for all
roadway crashes statewide. All available data were reviewed to assist in identifying safety concerns on Bluffdale roadways.
Crash data in this report are protected under Chapter 23 Utah State Code §409.

Crashes are recorded on a 1-to-5 scale based on the most severe injury caused by the crash as shown in Table 5, which
shows the crash injury level for all crashes that occurred in Bluffdale City limits from 2010 through 2016. During this period
there were a total of 993 crashes including 19 severe crashes. Table 6 shows a general increase in crashes for 2015 and
2016 over the preceding 5 years, including six severe crashes in 2016. Severe crashes occurring in Bluffdale are mapped in
Figure 14. A majority (73%) of crashes involved no injury.

Table 5. Bluffdale crash injury level summary, 2010–2016.
 CRASH SEVERITY SUMMARY
 City of Bluffdale, 2010–2016                                  Number of Crashes                   Percentage of Crashes
 Fatal                          5                              5                                   1%
 Serious injury                 4                              14                                  1%
 Minor injury                   3                              100                                 10%
 Possible injury                2                              145                                 15%
 No injury/PDO                  1                              729                                 73%
 Total                                                         993
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                    19

Table 6. Total crashes in Bluffdale, 2010–2016.
                                                        CRASHES BY YEAR
         City of Bluffdale
                                        2010         2011          2012         2013          2014          2015          2016
            2010–2016
 Fatal                       5             1           1            0              1            0              0           2
 Serious Injury              4             3           1            2              0            2              2           4
 Minor Injury                3             9          17           16             16           13             13          16
 Possible Injury             2            14          13           20             21           18             29          30
 No Injury/PDO               1            77          61           87            107           77            177          143
 Totals                                  104          93           125           145           110           221          195
 Percentage of Crashes                    10           9           13             15           11             22          20

Table 7 shows the crash manner of collision. About
39% of crashes were single-vehicle crashes, many of
which occurred on Redwood Road (SR-68), I-15, or
Bangerter Highway (SR-154). Single-vehicle crashes
typically involve a driver running off the road, which
can lead to roll-overs and impacts with fixed objects
such as trees. These types of crashes are common on
narrow, rural roads and pose high risk to drivers. The
roadway improvements identified in this plan should
help to reduce these crashes because narrow, rural
roads will be improved.

Single-vehicle crashes also frequently involve
pedestrians or bicyclists. Of the 19 severe crashes, 1
involved a pedestrian, and 1 involved a bicyclist
(Table 8). Overall, there were 2 pedestrian crashes
and 12 bicyclist crashes, most of which occurred on
14600 South, 14400 South, and Redwood Road. Nine
out of the twelve collisions resulted in minor injuries,
and there were no fatalities reported. Other bicycle
collisions occurred at 3600 West, Iron Horse Road,
Rock Hollow Road, and Pony Express Road. Adding
wider shoulders to the roadways and including bike
lanes and sidewalks will help to reduce these
accidents by allowing non-motorists to travel              Figure 14. Severe and fatal crashes in Bluffdale, 2010–2016.
separate from vehicle traffic. The city can also evaluate crosswalk locations to determine if pedestrian crossing
improvements could help to reduce pedestrian-involved crashes.

Another 29% of crashes were front to rear crashes, which are relatively common, especially on busy arterials with traffic
signals. The next highest manner of collision were angle crashes, making up 14% of the total.

Most of the 993 crashes in Bluffdale from 2010 to 2016 occurred on UDOT roadways. These roads carry much higher traffic
volumes and are more likely to have crashes. These roads include Redwood Road (SR-68), Bangerter Highway (SR-154), I-
15, and 14600 South (SR-140) (although 14600 South was recently acquired by Bluffdale City in a jurisdictional transfer).
Filtering the crashes to exclude UDOT roadways, leaves 225 out of 993 crashes (22.7%) that occurred on local Bluffdale
roadways. The crash type on local roads (UDOT roads were excluded) in Salt Lake County were evaluated for 2010–2016
for comparison with those in Bluffdale.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20

Table 7. Manner of collision for vehicle crashes in Bluffdale, 2010–2016.
                                                                                                      MANNER OF COLLISION
                                                      Front                                                   Sideswipe                           Sideswipe
 City of Bluffdale                                                           Head                                                                                                             Parked                      Rear to   Rear to                        NA/Single
                            Angle                       to                                                      Same                              Opposite
 2010–2016                                                                    On                                                                                                              Vehicle                      Side      Rear                           Vehicle
                                                      Rear                                                    Direction                           Direction
 Fatal                5        0                         1                                        1                      0                                              0                       0                           0                       0                     3
 Serious Injury       4        5                         2                                        1                      0                                              0                       0                           0                       0                     6
 Minor Injury         3       23                       23                                         4                      7                                              1                       3                           0                       0                    39
 Possible Injury      2       28                       59                                         8                      12                                             4                       1                           0                       0                    33
 No Injury/PDO        1       85                      201                                 19                             61                                             16                      36                          3                       1                    307
 Totals                       141                     286                                 33                             80                                             21                      40                          3                       1                    388
 Percentage of Crashes       14%                      29%                              3%                                8%                                             2%                      4%                          0%                  0%                       39%


Table 8. Types of crashes within Bluffdale, 2010–2016.
                                        CRASH TYPE (CRASHES MAY APPEAR IN MULTIPLE CATEGORIES)
                                                                            Motorcycle Involved
                                Pedestrian Involved




                                                                                                                              Roadway Departure
                                                                                                      Roadway Geometry




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Work Zone Related
                                                                                                                                                   Aggressive Driving




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Distracted Driving
                                                       Bicyclist Involved




                                                                                                                                                                             Drowsy Driving




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Animal Related
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Related
                                                                                                          Related




 City of Bluffdale




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DUI
 2010–2016




 Fatal                5           1                      0                    1                            3                    4                    0                         0                       0                     0       3                    0                     0
 Serious
                      4           0                      1                    5                            5                    3                    1                         0                       2                     0       5                    0                     1
 Injury

 Minor Injury         3           0                      9                  13                           36                   19                     1                         7                     13                      1      13                    9                     7

 Possible
                      2           0                      2                    3                          45                   19                     2                         8                     17                      7      31                    6                   17
 Injury
 No
                      1           1                      0                    3                        286                   141                     7                       11                      58                     19      106                 132                   106
 Injury/PDO
 Totals                           2                    12                   25                         375                   186                  11                         26                      90                     27      158                 147                   131

 Percentage of Crashes         0%                      1%                   3%                        38%                 19%                     1%                         3%                     9%                      3%      16%                 15%               13%


As shown in Figure 15, angle and front-to-rear crashes are significantly lower in Bluffdale based on percentages, while
single-vehicle crashes are much higher. This is likely because of the more rural nature of Bluffdale, as compared to the rest
of Salt Lake County. Fewer angle and front-to-rear crashes are occurring at busy local intersections in Bluffdale. This was
confirmed in the crash analysis; no single intersection (besides several UDOT maintained intersections) showed high
concentrations of crashes.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                             21




                           Figure 15. Percentage of crashes in Bluffdale compared to Salt Lake County.

Pedestrian Safety Characteristics
The UDOT Traffic and Safety Data were reviewed for pedestrian-involved collisions. Three collisions were reported
between January 2010 and September 30, 2016. Each collision was in a unique location, and are summarized below:

•   Fatality, 4000 West near 13996 South, driver of car driving straight ahead.
•   Minor Injury, 14830 S Heritage Crest Way, car and motorcycle involved, one turning left.
•   No Injury, Bangerter Parkway at 14075 South, driver of car driving straight ahead.

No countermeasures were offered by the reporting officer. However, education and enforcement for both drivers and
pedestrians may be necessary as Bluffdale’s population continues to grow. Measures that will also improve the situation
include development of a complete sidewalk network with appropriate crossing facilities so that pedestrians are visible
and anticipated by drivers.

Bicycle Safety Characteristics
The UDOT Traffic and Safety Data were reviewed for bicycle-involved collisions. Twelve collisions have been reported from
January 2010 to September 30, 2016, though this report acknowledges that many non-injury collisions are not reported.
Most of the bicycle-involved collisions are on 14600 South, 14400 South, and Redwood Road. Nine out of the twelve
collisions resulted in minor injuries, and there were no fatalities reported. Other Collisions occurred at 3600 W, Iron Horse
Road, Rock Hollow Road, and Pony Express Road. Nearly every collision was the result of the car or bicycle improperly
navigating an intersection, and the potential countermeasure identified as installing bicycle warning signs.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                              22

Future Conditions

Purpose
Future conditions were studied to determine transportation improvements necessary for long-term mobility in Bluffdale.
The years 2030 and 2050 were chosen as the planning horizons because that provides both short- and long-term views of
the future of Bluffdale, while making use of future travel demand model and city and state projections, as well as land use
plans. Together, these data are used in a travel demand model which estimates future traffic volumes on the collectors,
arterials, and freeways. LOS was calculated for each roadway segment to determine which transportation improvements
are required to bring the system up to a LOS C standard for collector roads and a LOS D standard for arterial roads.

Regional Transportation Planning/Improvements
The WFRC maintains the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) for the Box Elder, Davis, Morgan, Salt Lake, Tooele, and
Weber Counties. This plan is developed in coordination with UDOT, UTA, and Utah Division of Air Quality. The document
identifies, plans, and finances regional transportation improvements based on existing and anticipated growth up to the
year 2050. The current edition of this plan, Wasatch Choice 2050, was adopted on May 23, 2019. This section discusses the
highway projects within the WFRC plan located in Bluffdale City (planned public transportation projects within Bluffdale
City are discussed in the next section).

Phase I: 2019–2030. Projects located in/near Bluffdale that are planned to be completed by 2030 include the following:

•   14000 South – New construction and widening to three-lane cross-section from 2950 West to 3600 West
•   14600 South – Widen to three lanes from Redwood Road to Heritage Crest Way
•   I-15 Freeway – Managed Motorways operational improvements
•   Porter Rockwell Boulevard – New construction, widening, and bridge construction
•   Mountain View Corridor – New construction to extend Mountain View Corridor south to Utah County
•   Point of the Mountain Connector Road – New five-lane construction from Porter Rockwell Blvd to Utah County
•   600 West – New five-lane construction from Bangerter Highway to 14600 South
•   Mountain View Corridor – New freeway construction and widening
•   2700 West / Bangerter Highway (SR-154) – New interchange
•   Heritage 76 Road – New two-lane construction from Harmon Day Drive to Porter Rockwell Blvd

Phase II: 2031–2040. Projects located in/near Bluffdale that are planned to be completed by 2040 include the following:

•   Porter Rockwell Boulevard – Widen to seven lanes from Mountain View Corridor to Noell Nelson Drive
•   I-15 Frontage Roads – New two-lane northbound and southbound frontage roads

Phase III: 2041–2050. Projects located in/near Bluffdale that are planned to be completed by 2050 include the following:

•   Mountain View Corridor – Widening, interchange construction, and new HOV lanes
•   Redwood Road – Widen to seven lanes from Bangerter Highway (SR-154) to Porter Rockwell Boulevard
•   Noell Nelson Drive – New five-lane construction from Porter Rockwell Boulevard to I-15
•   I-15 Freeway – HOT lanes with ramps and reversible lanes

Unfunded Needs. Because the 2050 Regional Transportation Plan is financially constrained, some potential projects that
are deemed important to the regional transportation system, but for which no funding has been allocated, have been
identified by WFRC as “unfunded needs.” The following unfunded needs projects are located in/near Bluffdale:

•   Noell Nelson Drive / I-15 – New freeway interchange construction
•   I-15 Freeway – Variable-priced freeway lanes
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                              23

Regional Public Transportation Improvements
This section discusses the 2050 Regional Transportation Plan public transit projects located in/near Bluffdale City.

Phase I: 2019–2030. There are no projects listed in Phase I in the 2050 RTP.

Phase II: 2031–2040. Projects located in/near Bluffdale that are planned to be completed by 2040 include the following:

•   Core Service 15, Redwood Road – Frequent bus route along Redwood Road
•   FrontRunner – Doubletrack system throughout Salt Lake County

Phase III: 2041–2050. Projects located in/near Bluffdale that are planned to be completed by 2050 include the following:

•   Core Service 15, Porter Rockwell Boulevard – Frequent bus route along Porter Rockwell Boulevard and 600 West

Unfunded Needs. Because the 2050 Regional Transportation Plan is financially constrained, some potential projects that
are deemed important to the regional transportation system, but for which funding either has not been allocated, have
been identified by WFRC as “unfunded needs.” The following unfunded needs projects are located in/near Bluffdale:

•   FrontRunner – Electrify the system in Salt Lake County
•   FrontRunner – Construct a Bluffdale FrontRunner station
•   Bluffdale Transit Connector – Frequent bus route along 3600 West, 14400 South, and Redwood Road

Travel Forecasting
The following sections discuss the future travel demand forecasting used for this Regional Transportation Plan.

Methodology
Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG) and WFRC jointly maintain a regional travel demand forecasting model
for the four-county metropolitan region (Weber, Davis, Salt Lake, and Utah counties). The travel demand model predicts
future travel demand based on projections of land use, socioeconomic patterns, and transportation system
characteristics. At its core, it uses the common “four-step” modeling process which consists of trip generation, trip
distribution, mode split, and trip assignment. The model is run using the TP+/Cube software. References to “the model” in
this report refer to the scripts and data maintained by MAG and WFRC, not to the Cube software. At the time of this
Regional Transportation Plan, the MAG/WFRC official version of the TDM is 8.3, which is calibrated to represent 2019 base-
year travel conditions. Additional socioeconomic data and networks included with the official model include the years
2015, 2030, 2040, and 2050.

Model Calibration and Future Volume Corrections
The travel demand model was calibrated using the existing traffic count data that were completed previously for the
Transportation Master Planning effort, as described previously (primarily in 2016). In addition, the growth projections
completed by Hansen, Allen & Luce discussed earlier in this report were also used to update the travel demand model.
Using the same growth assumptions as were used for the other master plan updates in 2019, the travel demand was
updated and used to project future traffic volumes for Bluffdale.

Using outputs from the travel demand model runs, as well as other studies that have been completed in the area, future
2030 and 2050 traffic volumes were developed. These volumes were adjusted manually using the output from the
different models, Bluffdale’s future land use and roadway plans, and engineering judgement.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                              24

Future (2030) No-Build Conditions
This section discusses the predicted future (2030) level of service for each of the collector and arterial roads in Bluffdale
City assuming that no improvements are made to the roadway network, beyond those identified in the WFRC RTP. Figure
16 shows estimated future (2030) daily volumes and LOS for each collector and arterial roadway in Bluffdale City in a no-
build condition. As shown in the figure, the following roadways are anticipated to experience poor levels of service:

    •   14600 South – LOS E or F from 1690 West to I-15
    •   Porter Rockwell Boulevard – LOS E or F from Mountain View Corridor to Point of the Mountain Connector

Future (2050) No-Build Conditions
This section discusses the predicted future (2050) level of service for each of the collector and arterial roads in Bluffdale
City assuming that no improvements are made to the roadway network, beyond those identified in the WFRC RTP. Figure
17 shows estimated future (2050) daily volumes and LOS for each collector and arterial roadway in Bluffdale City in a no-
build condition. As shown in the figure, the following roadways are anticipated to experience poor levels of service:

    •   14600 South – LOS E or F from Redwood Road to I-15
    •   Porter Rockwell Boulevard – LOS E or F from Mountain View Corridor to Noell Nelson Drive
    •   Loumis Parkway – LOS F from 14400 South to North City Boundary
    •   2700 West – LOS E from 14400 South to 14200 South
    •   Noell Nelson Drive – LOS F from I-15 to Freedom Point Way

Emergency and Priority Snowplow Route Planning
There are a few considerations in determining priority routes for emergency evacuations and snow plowing. These
considerations include emergency situations, earthquakes, canal/river flooding, Jordan Water Conservancy chlorine
storage, wildfires, utility locations (natural gas, power, other pipelines), railroad tracks and bridges.

Evacuation route considerations include maintaining north-south traffic flows between Salt Lake and Utah Counties to
provide alternatives to I-15 and traversing Point of the Mountain. Evacuation routes follow state maintained roads (SR-68,
Camp Williams Road, Redwood Road, SR-85, Mountain View Corridor, I-15, and the future Porter Rockwell Road). Local
roads maintained by Bluffdale include Pony Express Road, 2700 West, 2200 West (which does not cross Bangerter but is a
collector for Bluffdale), 3200 West, 3600 West, and 4000 West. East-west traffic flows through Bluffdale are quite limited
because of the location of the Jordan River and railroad lines. Existing options include SR-154 (Bangerter Highway) and
14400 South/14600 South/SR-140, which is significantly constricted at the railroad bridge. The railroad bridge needs to be
reconstructed per Bluffdale General Land Use Plan. Future connections include Porter Rockwell Boulevard and potential
future development of a new interchange with I-15 at the current gravel pit.

PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT
An online survey and comment map were distributed to residents of Bluffdale and one public open house was held. See
Appendix A to review the comment map application and survey questions that were distributed, as well as the unedited
survey responses.

Advertisement Strategy for Open House and Survey
Both the survey and information regarding the public open house were distributed via several avenues, including a press
release, the Bluffdale monthly utility bill, City Council newsletters, the Bluffdale website, social media, the South Valley
Journal, and the Deseret News.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                        25




Figure 16. Future (2030) no-build volumes and LOS.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                        26




Figure 17. Future (2050) no-build volumes and LOS.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                           27

Public Meeting
A public open house was held to provide a venue for personal discussions and interactions with those completing the
transportation planning effort. It was held in the Council Chambers at the Bluffdale fire station on January 12, 2017. The
meeting was conducted using an open house format so residents could come and go as schedules allowed. The
information presented at the meeting focused on vison, goals, and objectives for Bluffdale’s future transportation system
and included discussions on safety, vehicle transportation needs, and active transportation. Attendees were also
encouraged to participate in the online survey, which could be completed at the meeting on laptops.

Online Surveys
Two different online surveys were used to collect public input regarding Bluffdale’s existing and future transportation
system. The first survey was a traditional survey that presented a series of multiple-choice questions regarding
transportation habits and two free comment questions to assess the current transportation system. The second survey
utilized an online map application which asked respondents what specific locations in Bluffdale they thought were in
need of transportation improvements or safety concerns related to transportation. A total of 295 individuals responded to
the survey. The online survey and comment application were open from December 1, 2016, through January 31, 2017.

Specific Transportation System Improvements: Three free comment questions were asked of survey respondents to
help identify specific items for improvement:

1. What do you think the city can improve most in its transportation system?
Summary of answers:

•   The majority of respondents identified the one-lane railroad underpass and the poor conditions of 14600 South.

•   Sidewalks near schools, better sidewalk connectivity, sidewalks and bike lanes on 14600 South.

•   Road conditions on 2200 West, 2700 West, 3600 West, and 13800 South were mentioned specifically.

•   The following intersection concerns and needs were identified: a crosswalk or light from Bluffdale Heights across
    Porter Rockwell Boulevard; entrance to Independence at the Point area; 13970 South and Redwood Road; Loumis
    Parkway; entrance to the Bluffs; and intersection of 14600 South and Redwood Road.

•   Public transportation access, improved east-west connectivity, and more commercial options within Bluffdale.

2. Where do you think the City has gaps in the transportation system?
Summary of answers:

    •   Lack of access to public transportation, specifically Trax, FrontRunner, and bus transit. Bluffdale does not
        currently have access to public transportation and the respondents have noticed.

    •   East-west connectivity between the unique areas of Bluffdale was another common mention. Respondents
        identified their difficulty in traveling along 14600 South and the lack of major east-west roads.

    •   Some respondents are looking forward to the construction of Porter Rockwell Boulevard to help alleviate
        congestion on 14600 South.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                   28




Figure 18. Key word analysis of answers from the question, “What can the city improve?”




Figure 19. Key word analysis of answers from the question, “Where are the gaps in the transportation system?”

3. If there is anything else you would like to mention concerning transportation in Bluffdale?
Summary of answers:

•   Increased street lighting.

•   Development of local commercial and retail options.

•   Better enforcement of speed limits.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                 29




Figure 20. Key word analysis of answers from the question, “Any last comments?”

General Characteristics of Respondents
   • The majority of the online survey respondents were between the ages of 25 and 64 (91.9%), with the most
        represented age group being 35–44 (37.3%).

    •   The majority of respondents have lived in Bluffdale for 1–5 years (44.1%). The next most responsive group were
        longer-term residents of 10 years or longer (25.8%).

    •   The majority of respondents are employed full-time (73.1%). For those who responded that they work full-time
        and part-time, the majority (37.4%) travel less than 10 miles (one-way) to their jobs. Approximately 56.8% have to
        travel more than 10 miles one-way to their job.

    •   Very few students responded to the survey. For the students who did respond, the majority of them (76.1%) travel
        less than 10 miles to school.

Travel Mode Preferences
    • Bluffdale is a car-dominated city that lacks direct access to public transportation. Therefore it is not surprising
        that the majority of Bluffdale residents drive alone to complete most of their daily activities. Carpooling was the
        second most prevalent response.

    •   To get to their place of employment, most Bluffdale residents (226 responses) drive alone. The next prevalent
        preference was “carpool,” but at a significantly lower response rate (26 responses). Several residents qualified
        their responses with the desire to use public transit or other modes of transportation if it were made available in
        Bluffdale and convenient to their destination. With the short distances identified by employees in a previous
        chart, it appears most residents in Bluffdale are working in and around the Point of the Mountain area.

    •   To get to school, most Bluffdale residents (66 responses) drive alone. The next preference was “carpool” at a lower
        response rate (25 responses).

    •   For social visits to visit family and friends, again Bluffdale residents (198 responses) drive alone. The next
        prevalent preference was “carpool” at a lower response rate (92 responses).

    •   For recreation and leisure trips, again Bluffdale residents (190 responses) drive alone. The next prevalent answer
        was “carpool” at a lower response rate (82 responses). Several respondents clarified their response by saying their
        preferred locations of recreation are outside of Bluffdale, not within.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                30

General Transportation Opinions
   • Respondents generally viewed the following more favorably: condition of roads, overall traffic safety, and current
        speed limits.

    •   Respondents generally viewed the following more negatively: attractiveness of roadways, connectivity of
        Bluffdale’s internal transportation system, ability to bike on roadways, and ability to walk places via sidewalks.

Transit and Active Transportation (Biking and Walking)
This section of the survey measures respondent’s opinions on walking, biking, and public transportation within Bluffdale.
Active Transportation and providing a complete multi-modal transportation system is a key focus of the City Council. Most
respondents replied favorably to their perceived use of public transportation, bicycle facilities, and sidewalks, if those
facilities were further developed in Bluffdale. Few respondents walk or bike regularly within Bluffdale; however, a small
group participates in both activities throughout the year.

To discover why residents may choose not to walk to work or other places in Bluffdale, respondents were asked to
comment on obstacles faced by Bluffdale pedestrians. The most significant obstacles mentioned by Bluffdale residents
were the lack of nearby destinations, lack of connected sidewalks, impracticality of walking, and feeling unsafe at
intersections.

To identify possible measures to overcome these obstacles, respondents were asked to rate their preferences on possible
pedestrian improvements. The top three needs identified were (1) more sidewalks, (2) improved connectivity of sidewalks,
and (3) better street lighting. Education and enforcement of motorists, and maintenance of sidewalks, though viewed
favorably, did not receive the strongest responses.

To discover why residents may choose not to rely on bicycle transportation in Bluffdale, respondents were asked to
comment on obstacles they faced. The most significant obstacles mentioned were feeling unsafe on the roadways and at
intersections, driver behaviors toward bicyclists, and the need for more facilities. Not being able to bike and not owning a
bike were not perceived as obstacles to bike transportation to respondents.

To identify possible measures to overcome these obstacles, respondents were asked to rate their preferences on possible
bicycle facility improvements. The top three needs identified were (1) better street lighting, (2) more separation from
traffic, and (3) more bicycle facilities. More bicycle parking and storage, as well as education received the weakest
responses.

Web Map Survey Responses
For this component of the survey, respondents were asked to identify specific places on a map of Bluffdale, where there
were transportation issues or problems. The following is a summary of the locations and comments provided by survey
respondents, which correspond to numbers on the map in Figure 21.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                       31




Figure 21. Comment locations within Bluffdale as identified by survey repondents.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                        32

Vehicle Drivers
Driver concerns indicated on the map include:
1.      Improve the bottleneck at the railroad bridge for vehicles and active transportation.
2.      A majority of the comments identified a need to improve 14600/14400 South to accommodate all users, including
        bikes and pedestrians.
3.      Difficulty accessing Redwood Road from Iron Horse Boulevard and 15000 South.
4.      Concerns for increased traffic resulting from development of surrounding communities.
5.      Comments against connecting to Herriman.
6.      Comments supporting connection to Herriman.
7.      Several comments stated that the 14400 South and Redwood Road intersection, and Loomis Parkway, are unsafe.
8.      15000 South is too narrow near Redwood Road.
9.      The intersection of Heritage Crest and 14600 South is unsafe.
10.     The intersection of Porter Rockwell and 14600 South is unsafe.
11.     A request to complete the street connection between 15250 South and Silverpoint Way.
12.     13800 South is of poor condition.
13.     Better access surrounding the Bluffs.
14.     A request to shorten the timing of the new traffic light at Redwood and Camp Williams Avenue.

Pedestrians
Concerns indicated on the map include:
15.     Gaps in the sidewalk and cross walk network surrounding Northstar Academy.
16.     The need for sidewalks along 14600 South.
17.     The need for reduced speed limit and speed enforcement on Iron Horse Boulevard and 2200 West.
18.     A pathway to connect Parry Farms to Independence.
19.     Sidewalk needs along 15250 South.
20.     Better crosswalk enforcement on 2700 West.

Bicyclists
Concerns indicated on the map include:
21.      Majority of the comments are for 14600 and the need for safer facilities to accommodate all users.
22.      Safety concern near the Bluffs.
23.      The eastern portion of 14400 South is described as too narrow to safely accommodate bikes and vehicles.
24.      1300 West is indicated to be of poor condition for those who use it to connect to the Jordan River Trail.
25.      A request is made to pave the Jordan River Parkway Trail through its extent.
26.      Bike lanes on 15000 South need to be swept.

Other Concerns
Other concerns indicated on the map include:
27.     The need for a horse path on 14400 South to connect the community to the rodeo grounds.
28.     Several comments concerning public transportation.
29.     Request for sound barrier walls near Bangerter and the Bluffs.
30.     Road conditions along 2200 West.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                         33

TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM RECOMMENDATIONS
The following sections discuss recommended improvements to Bluffdale’s transportation system, both for vehicles and
other forms of transportation, to address needs through the year 2050. Roadway improvements for vehicles use is
intended to provide acceptable levels of service for future 2030 and 2050 conditions. Improvements for other modes of
transportation, including active transportation and public transit, are also provided.

Recommended Future Road Classification and Cross Sections
In order to provide more flexibility and to encourage creativity in developing a sense of place, the City of Bluffdale has
chosen to not identify specific cross sections for different roadway categories. Instead, a list of required elements for each
class of roadway is provided (Table 9). This allows the city and developers to be flexible and design a cross section that
works best for the area. Figure 22 provides a map of the location of existing and proposed roads by roadway class.

Table 9. Required cross section amenities by roadway category from center travel lanes outward.
 Major Arterial                               Major Collector                           Standard Residential
 • Center turn lane/median (range             • Center turn lane or median              • One travel lane each direction
     12–14 feet wide)                            (minimum 12 feet wide)                     (minimum 12.5 feet wide)
 • Three travel lanes in each direction       • One travel lane each direction          • Curb and gutter
     (12 feet wide)                              (minimum 11 feet wide)                 • Park strip (minimum 6 feet wide)
 • Bike lanes (range 4–6 feet wide)           • Bike lanes (minimum 5 feet wide)        • Sidewalk (minimum 5 feet wide)
 • Buffered bike lanes are preferable         • Buffered bike lanes are preferable
 • Shoulder (range 1–10 feet wide)            • Shoulder (minimum 4 feet wide)
 • Curb and gutter                            • Curb and gutter
 • Park strip (minimum 6 feet wide)           • Park strip (minimum 6 feet wide)
 • Sidewalk (minimum 6 feet wide)             • Sidewalk (minimum 5 feet wide)
 • Trail or path could be considered in • Landscaped medians could be
     place of sidewalk                           considered in place of center turn
                                                 lane
 Minor Arterial                                                     Minor Collector
 • Center turn lane or median (minimum 12 feet wide)                • One travel lane each direction (minimum 12 feet wide)
 • Two travel lanes in each direction (11 feet wide)                • Bike lanes (minimum 5 feet wide)
 • Bike lanes (minimum 5 feet wide                                  • Buffered bike lanes are preferable
 • Buffered bike lanes are preferable                               • Shoulder (minimum 4 feet wide)
 • Shoulder (minimum 4 feet wide)                                   • Curb and gutter
 • Curb and gutter                                                  • Park strip (6 feet wide)
 • Park strip (6 feet wide)                                         • Sidewalk (minimum 5 feet wide)
 • Sidewalk (minimum 5 feet wide)                                   • Trail or path could be considered in place of sidewalks
 • Trail or path could be considered in place of sidewalks
Note: bike lanes and shoulders are distinct roadway amenities; bike lanes are designated for bicycle traffic while shoulders may be
used for automobile parking and winter snow storage. On-street parking should be prohibited on roadways with bike lanes if the
combined width of bike lane and shoulder is less than 12 feet.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                 34




Figure 22. Existing and proposed roadway functional class within Bluffdale.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                               35

Recommended Roadway Improvements for Vehicles
Projects are classified as new construction (roads that do not currently exist) and widening (cross sections that need to be
expanded to a larger lane count). Some widening projects shown may only require re-striping and not actual widening.
Conversely, some cross sections may currently have the correct number of lanes but need additional widening to
accommodate side treatments such as bike lanes, curb, gutter, and sidewalk, or shoulders. Note: to address roadway
safety, street lighting should be included in all future roadway projects. Bluffdale should conduct a city-wide street
lighting study to identify and address safety concerns through additional street lighting projects where necessary. The
future projects recommended for Bluffdale City to construct by 2030 and 2050 are shown in Tables 10 and 11, respectively.

Table 10. 2030 Bluffdale City Projects.
                                            2030 Bluffdale City Project List
 Project                                                                                   # of Lanes
                              Description                   Improvement Type                                Estimated Cost
 Number                                                                             Existing     Proposed
            14600 S Bike lanes, from Roundabout
     1                                                   Widening: Bike Lanes          2                2   $     2,055,400
            to Pony Express
            14600 S Bike lanes, Curb and Sidewalk
     2                                                   Widening: Bike Lanes          2                2   $     2,600,000
            from 1690W to Spring View Farm
     3      Heritage 76 Road                             New 2-Lane Roadway           n/a               2   $    5,000,000*
     4      Pony Express Realignment                          Realignment              2                3   $     5,806,400
                                                        Widening: Curb, Gutter,
     5      14600 South from 1690 West to PRB                                          2                3   $    26,700,000
                                                         & Center Turn Lane
     6      1780 West (behind Maverik)                   New 2-Lane Roadway         n/a to 2            2   $     1,600,000
     7      13900 South – 2700 West to 2950 West         New 2-Lane Roadway         n/a to 2            2   $     2,103,300
                                                                                                  TOTAL     $ 45,865,100
 *City portion of Project #3 will be $3,000,000.

Table 11. 2050 Bluffdale City Projects.
                                            2050 Bluffdale City Project List
 Project                                                                                   # of Lanes           Estimated
                              Description                   Improvement Type
 Number                                                                             Existing     Proposed          Cost

            2700 West - 14200 South to 14400
     1                                                     Widening: 3 Lanes           2                3   $     1,300,000
            South
            Widen 14600 South - Redwood Road to
     2                                                     Widening: 5 Lanes           3                5   $    31,700,000
            Porter Rockwell Blvd
            Widen Loumis Parkway - 14400 South
     3                                                     Widening: 3 Lanes           2                3   $     5,800,000
            to Bangerter Hwy
            Intersection improvements on Noell
     4      Nelson Drive - between 14600 South &         Improve Intersections        n/a           n/a     $     3,100,000
            Porter Rockwell Blvd
            Bringhurst Extension – Connect
     5      Bringhurst Drive to Jordan Narrows           New 3-Lane Roadway           n/a               3   $    10,647,178
            Road
                                                                                                  TOTAL     $ 52,547,178
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                         36

The future projects recommended for UDOT to construct by 2030 and 2050 in or near Bluffdale City are shown in Tables 12
and 13, respectively.

Table 12. 2030 UDOT Projects within Bluffdale
                                  2030 UDOT Project List within Bluffdale
 Project                                                                                # of Lanes
                            Description                  Improvement Type                                Estimated Cost
 Number                                                                          Existing     Proposed
            Grade-Separated Crossing at Railroad         Grade Separated
    1                                                                               2                5   $   27,800,000
            on 14600 South                               Railroad Crossing
                                                        Bridge over Jordan
    2       Porter Rockwell Boulevard Bridge                                       n/a               7   $   27,800,000
                                                               River

    3       Widen Porter Rockwell Boulevard             Widening: 7 Lanes           3                7   $   37,600,000

    4       Point of the Mountain Connector Road       New 5-Lane Roadway          n/a               5   $   23,500,000

    5       600 West                                   New 5-Lane Roadway          n/a               5   $   32,600,000

            2700 West Bangerter Highway               New Grade-Separated
    6                                                                              n/a           n/a     $   50,600,000
            Interchange                                   Interchange

    7       13800 South                                  Extend Roadway            n/a               3   $    9,100,000

            Widen 14600 South near I-15 (Not
    8                                                   Widening: 7 Lanes           5                7   $           -
            Planned)
                                                                                               TOTAL     $ 209,000,000

Table 13. 2050 UDOT Project within Bluffdale.
                                  2050 UDOT Project List within Bluffdale
 Project                                                                                # of Lanes
                            Description                  Improvement Type                                Estimated Cost
 Number                                                                          Existing     Proposed

    1       Widen Porter Rockwell Boulevard             Widening: 7 Lanes           4                7   $   62,000,000

                                                      New One-Way Frontage
    2       I-15 Frontage Roads                                                    n/a               2   $ 129,800,000
                                                             Roads

    3       Widen Redwood Road                          Widening: 7 Lanes           5                7   $ 120,700,000

                                                       Extend Roadway (5-
    4       Noell Nelson Drive to I-15                                             n/a               5   $   57,700,000
                                                             Lane)
            Noell Nelson Drive, Porter Rockwell
    5                                                   Widening: 7 Lanes       Future 5             7   $           -
            Blvd to I-15 (Not Planned)
            Urban Interchange at Porter Rockwell
    6                                                    New Interchange           n/a           n/a     $           -
            Blvd / 14600 South (Not Planned)

    7       600 West (Not Planned)                      Widening: 7 Lanes       Future 5             7   $           -

                                                                                               TOTAL     $ 370,200,000
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                 37

Future Build Conditions
The proposed Bluffdale City and UDOT projects were entered into the travel demand model and new results were
generated to determine the impact of the projects and the resulting build volumes and LOS. The volumes and LOS for the
build conditions in 2030 and 2050 are shown in Figures 23 and 24, respectively. As shown, all City roadways are anticipated
to operate at acceptable levels of service with the proposed projects implemented. However, it is anticipated that UDOT
roadways Porter Rockwell Boulevard and portions of 14600 South are anticipated to operate poorly in future conditions.

Recommended Improvements for Active Transportation
Several projects and improvement areas were identified by residents of Bluffdale and the data analysis. To help the city
prioritize projects, the following criteria and weighting method is proposed. This method is guided by the draft vision,
goals, and objectives (Table 14).

Table 14. Recommended active transportation project prioritization criteria.
 CRITERIA                       DESCRIPTION
 Safety                         Project will positively improve safety of the roadway for all users

 Level of service               Project will improve Level of Service

 Roadway condition              Project will improve a segment of road in poor condition

                                Project improves, expands, or maintains the ideal bicycle facility outlined in city cross
 Bicycle considerations
                                sections.
 Pedestrian                     Project improves, expands, or maintains the ideal sidewalk characteristics outlined in city
 considerations                 cross sections.
 Pedestrian/bicycle             Project improves, expands or maintains adequate crossing needs for cyclists and
 crossings                      pedestrians both midblock and at intersections
                                Project improves connectivity for residents including connections to: parks, schools,
 System connectivity
                                commercial destinations, residential areas, and principal routes serving the valley
                                Project is designed using Bluffdale’s Complete Streets Guidelines and has aesthetically
 Design aesthetics
                                pleasing design considerations.

Recommended Active Transportation Projects. The numbered list below corresponds to the numbers shown on the map in
Figure 26. Additional information for all the active transportation projects can be found in Appendix B.

1. Construct bike lanes and sidewalks on 14600 South, including both the 14600-widening project and the Railroad
   Underpass improvement project.
2. Add bike lanes and sidewalks on 13800 South as part of full roadway reconstruction.
3. Add bike lanes and sidewalks on 14400 South as part of full roadway reconstruction.
4. Add multi-modal facilities on Porter Rockwell as part of full roadway reconstruction.
5. Improve pedestrian crossing at 2700 West and Country Classic with initiated flashers at crosswalk.
6. Complete sidewalk network supporting North Star Academy.
7. Add shared-use pathway to access education and recreation facilities across canal into Herriman.
8. Trail network connections between Parry Farms and Independence.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                     38




Figure 23. Future (2030) build volumes and LOS.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                     39




Figure 24. Future (2050) build volumes and LOS.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                          40

In addition to the above listed active transportation projects, this transportation plan recommends Bluffdale
accommodate a diverse range of active transportation users on roadways, bike lanes, and sidewalks throughout the city.
To that end, the city should establish policy for the use of these facilities by other types of users, including skateboards,
scooters, and other user-powered recreational equipment. Other policy considerations included the use of small electric
or gas-powered equipment, such as scooters, Segways, etc. In general, it is recommended that all means of travel should
be allowed to use sidewalks if traveling less than 8 miles per hour but should move to bike lanes (when available) or
roadway if traveling faster than 8 miles per hour. Pedestrians should have the right-of-way on sidewalks.

Equestrian use is common in Bluffdale but was not thoroughly considered in this transportation plan. A future study of
equestrian use within Bluffdale should be conducted to determine how the city can better meet the needs of this user
group.




Figure 25. Potential future transportation hub, including a new FrontRunner station in Bluffdale, located at the intersection Porter
           Rockwell Boulevard, Mountain View Corridor, and Redwood Road.


Public Transportation
Developing public transit options for Bluffdale was identified as a priority by both the public and city staff. However, public
transportation in the Salt Lake Valley is operated by the UTA, which make decisions regarding location of bus routes and
bus stops. The UTA uses population density as a key indicator of public transit needs. Based on Bluffdale’s rural nature,
UTA has determined not to serve the community because current demand is not sufficient to justify the cost of a new
route through the city.

Future demand for public transit in Bluffdale is a different matter. Based on current development trends and Bluffdale’s
future land use plan (Figure 27), the eastern half of the city will build out far more densely than the western portion.
Additionally, a large portion of the area is intended for commercial and office space, which will significantly increase daily
traffic counts in the area. After this happens, UTA will need to re-evaluate the demand for public transportation.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                      41




Figure 26. Proposed active transportation projects in Bluffdale.
Bluffdale Transportation Plan                                                                                                      42

A second consideration for public transit in Bluffdale is the potential for a new FrontRunner Station located at the future
intersection of Porter Rockwell Boulevard, Redwood Road, and Mountain View Corridor. This area is also close to a future
interchange on I-15, as proposed by this Transportation Plan. The site could serve as a transit hub for the entire south end
of the Salt Lake Valley by connecting many high-traffic routes in a small geographic area.

Beyond the regional potential for rail, local analysis of future land use within 1 mile of the proposed rail station anticipates
542 acres of high-density residential and mixed-use development potential. Assuming housing unit density of between 10
and 16 units per acre and 3.5 residents per unit, the area can expect approximately 18,000–23,000 individuals will be living
within 1 mile of the site. Furthermore, another 500 acres of land is anticipated to be developed as professional business
park, with commercial and civic institutional uses that will eventually drive a large daily influx of commuters, which could
be served by public transit. Figure 27 displays future land use plans for the area around the proposed rail station.




Figure 27. Bluffdale future land use map indicates the city is planning for high density commercial and housing opportunities on the
           east side. The intensity of these future uses creates potential for future public transit opportunities in Bluffdale.
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A – SURVEY RESULTS
GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF SURVEY RESPONDENTS
As anticipated with an online survey in response to a city planning effort, the majority of the respondents were
between the ages of 25 and 64 (91.9%), with the most represented age group being 35-44 (37.3%).


                                               Age Range of Respondents
               40.0%                                       37.3%

               35.0%

               30.0%
                                                  25.8%
               25.0%

               20.0%
                                                                       14.2%        14.6%
               15.0%

               10.0%
                                                                                                 5.8%
                5.0%                   1.4%
                           0.3%                                                                              0.7%
                0.0%
                          15 and       16-24      25-34    35-44       45-54        55-64    65 and over Prefer not
                          under                                                                          to answer




The majority of respondents have lived in Bluffdale for 1–5 years (44.1%). The next, most responsive group were longer-
term residents of 10 years or greater (25.8%).


                                        How long have you lived in Bluffdale?
              50.0%
                                                44.1%
              45.0%
              40.0%
              35.0%
              30.0%                                                                  25.8%
              25.0%
              20.0%                                            15.6%
              15.0%          11.5%
              10.0%
               5.0%                                                                                       3.1%

               0.0%
                       Less than one year      1-5 years     5-10 years        More than 10 years Do not reside in the
                                                                                                    area, but travel
                                                                                                   through the area
The majority of respondents are employed full-time (73.1%). Very few students responded to the survey.


                                       Which of the following best describes you?
            80.0%         73.1%
            70.0%

            60.0%

            50.0%

            40.0%

            30.0%

            20.0%
                                           9.5%                                                    9.2%
            10.0%                                        5.1%
                                                                      1.0%          0.0%                          2.0%
              0.0%
                      Employed full-     Employed    Not employed   Full-time     Part-time        Other      Prefer not to
                          time           part-time   / unemployed    student       student                       answer




For the students who did respond, the majority of them (76.1%) travel less than 10 miles to school.


                            For Students: How far do you travel one-way to school?
             80.00%          76.10%

             70.00%
             60.00%
             50.00%
             40.00%
             30.00%
             20.00%
                                                                     11.40%
             10.00%                                  5.70%                                 3.40%              3.40%
              0.00%
                            0-10 miles            11-20 miles       21-30 miles      Greater than 30       Online school
                                                                                          miles              program /
                                                                                                           homeschooled




For those who responded that they work full-time and part-time, the majority (37.4%) travel less than 10 miles one-way to
their job. Approximately 56.8% have to travel greater than 10 miles one-way to their job.
                          For those who work: How far do you travel one-way to work?
                40.00%           37.40%

                35.00%
                                                           30.50%
                30.00%
                25.00%                                                            22.60%

                20.00%
                15.00%
                10.00%
                                                                                                                                  5.80%
                                                                                                          3.70%
                 5.00%
                 0.00%
                                0-10 miles                11-20 miles           21-30 miles         Greater than 30          Work from home /
                                                                                                         miles                telecommute




TRAVEL MODE PREFERENCES:
The following charts review the travel mode preferences of respondents. Not surprising, the majority of Bluffdale residents
drive alone to complete most of their daily activities. Carpooling was the second most prevalent response. Bluffdale is a
car-dominated city that lacks direct access to public transportation.


                         What mode of travel do you MOST often use to do the following
                                                  activities?
          900
          800
          700
          600
          500
          400
          300
          200
          100
            0
                         Walk             Bike            Transit / Public     Carpool        Drive Alone            Other        Not Applicable
                                                          Transportation

                                    Work         School       Shopping       Recreation    Social Visits (visit family/friends)




To get to their place of employment, most Bluffdale residents (226 responses) drive alone. The next prevalent answer was
‘carpool’ at a significantly lower response rate (26 responses). Several residents qualified their responses with the desire to
use public transit or other modes of transportation if it were made available in Bluffdale and convenient to their
destination. With the short distances identified by employees in a previous chart, it appears most residents in Bluffdale are
working in and around the Point of the Mountain area.
                            How often do you use the following modes of travel to WORK?
 300


 250


 200


 150

                  226
 100


  50

                                         26                    14                      11                       13
   0                                                                                                                                 5
              Drive Alone              Carpool           Transit / Public          Walk                        Bike                 Other
                                                         Transportation

       Regularly(Daily to multiple times a month)   Sometimes(Multiple times a year)    Rarely(Once per year or less)       Never   Not Applicable




To get to school, most Bluffdale residents (66 responses) drive alone. The next prevalent answer was ‘carpool’ at a lower
response rate (25 responses).


                        How often do you use the following modes of travel to SCHOOL?
 300


 250


 200


 150


 100


  50
                  66
                                         25                    10                      13                       10
   0                                                                                                                                 2
              Drive Alone              Carpool           Transit / Public          Walk                        Bike                 Other
                                                         Transportation
    Regularly(Daily to multiple times a month)      Sometimes(Multiple times a year)        Rarely(Once per year or less)   Never    Not Applicable




For social visits to visit family and friends, again Bluffdale residents (198 responses) drive alone. The next prevalent
answer was ‘carpool’ at a lower response rate (92 responses).
                              How often do you use the following modes of travel to
                                            VISIT FAMILY/FRIENDS?
 300

 250

 200

 150

 100           198

  50                                   92

   0                                                          1                    19                   10                   1
            Drive Alone             Carpool          Transit / Public            Walk                 Bike                  Other
                                                     Transportation
   Regularly(Daily to multiple times a month)   Sometimes(Multiple times a year)   Rarely(Once per year or less)    Never   Not Applicable




For recreation and leisure trips, again Bluffdale residents (190 responses) drive alone. The next prevalent answer was
‘carpool’ at a lower response rate (82 responses). Several respondents clarified their response by saying their preferred
locations of recreation are outside of Bluffdale, not within.



                              How often do you use the following modes of travel to
                                     RECREATION/LEISURE DESTINATIONS?
 300

 250

 200

 150

 100          190

  50
                                  82

   0                                                   2                20                  20                  5                   0
          Drive Alone           Carpool         Transit / Public       Walk                Bike          Horseback Ride          Other
                                                Transportation

   Regularly(Daily to multiple times a month)   Sometimes(Multiple times a year)    Rarely(Once per year or less)   Never   Not Applicable
GENERAL TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS:
The following charts review respondent’s opinions of various transportation characteristics within Bluffdale. Respondents
generally viewed the following more favorably: condition of roads, overall traffic safety, and current speed limits.
Respondents generally viewed the following more negatively: attractiveness of roadways, connectivity of Bluffdale’s
transportation system, ability to bike on roadways, and ability to walk places via sidewalks.


                          Please rate your opinions on transportation in Bluffdale:
250

200

150

100

 50

   0




                                              Excellent    Good     Fair    Poor    Don't Know



TRANSIT AND ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION (BIKING AND WALKING):
The next section of the survey review respondent’s opinions on walk and biking and public transportation within
Bluffdale. Active Transportation and providing a complete multi-modal transportation system is a key focus of the
steering committee. Most respondents replied favorably to their perceived use of public transportation, bicycle facilities,
and sidewalks, if those facilities were further developed in Bluffdale. Few respondents walk or bike regularly within
Bluffdale; however, a larger group participates in both activities throughout the year.


                                  How frequently do you do the following:
250

200                                 42                                       29                                        26
               60                                         73                                      53
                                                                             39                                        37
150                                 44
                                                          45                                      68
               77                                                                                                      92
100                                                                          84
                                    83
 50                                                       78                                      79
               64
                                    48                                       65                                        64
  0            17                                         22                                      19
           Do you use        How often would         Do you currently     How often would How often do you How often would
          transit/public        you use local        bike in Bluffdale? you bike in Bluffdale  walk to/from    you walk to/from
         transportation         transit/public                          if more or improved   destinations in   destinations in
       available outside of transportation if it                            facilities were     Bluffdale?    Bluffdale if more or
            Bluffdale?      were developed in                                 provided?                        improved walking
                                  Bluffdale?                                                                     facilities were
                      Regularly (Daily to multiple times per month) Sometimes (Multiple times per year)            provided?
                     Rarely (Once per year or less)                 Never
To assist in identifying why residents may not be choosing to walk, respondents were asked to comment on some
potential barriers. The most significant barriers for Bluffdale residents are the lack of nearby destinations, lack of
connected sidewalks, impracticality of walking, and feeling unsafe at intersections.



                     Please rate barriers to WALKING in Bluffdale that apply to you:
         250

         200

         150

         100

          50

           0




                                                                                            Major Barrier    Minor Barrier     Not a Barrier




To help identify possible measures to help alleviate the barriers mentioned in the previous question respondents were
asked to rate their preferences on possible pedestrian improvements. The top three needs identified were, more
sidewalks, improved connectivity of sidewalks, and better street lighting. Education and enforcement of motorists, and
maintenance of sidewalks, though viewed favorably, did not receive the strongest response.


                      How great is the need for the following improvements to support
  250
                                          WALKING in Bluffdale?
  200


  150


  100


   50          103                                  106                                   97
                                                                       84                                   79                                  69
                                61                                                                                            53
    0
        More sidewalks     Maintenance of        Improved        Better pedestrian    Better street   More separation    Education for    Enforcement for
                             sidewalks         connectivity of   accommodations         lighting       from traffic      motorists and     motorists and
                          (sweeping, snow        sidewalks        at intersections                                      pedestrians on     pedestrians on
                           removal, fixing                        (warning lights,                                         traffic laws      traffic laws
                         frost heaves, etc.)                         signs, etc.)                                          concerning       concerning
                                               Great Need        Minor Need          Not a Need       Don't Know        pedestrians and     pedestrians
                                                                                                                         safe behaviors
To assist in identifying why residents may not be choosing to bike, respondents were asked to comment on some
potential barriers. The most significant barriers for Bluffdale residents are feeling unsafe on the roadway and at
intersections, driver behaviors towards bicyclists, and need for more facilities. Not able to bike and not owning a bike were
not perceived as barriers to respondents.


                      Please rate barriers to BICYCLING in Bluffdale that apply to you:
  250

  200

  150

  100

   50

    0
         Not enough Bike facilities    Unsafe         Driver       Do not feel    Not enough         It’s not   I do not like to I do not own a
        bike facilities  in poor    intersections   behaviors       safe biking bicycle parking practical       or I am unable         bike
         (i.e., lanes,  condition                    towards                       or storage     (travel with       to bike
        trails, routes,                             bicyclists                   such as racks small children,
             etc.)                                                                                 too many
                                                                                                   stops, too
                                                                                                much to carry,
                                                                                                takes too long,
                                                                                                       etc.)
                                              Major Barrier      Minor Barrier    Not a Barrier



To help identify possible measures to help alleviate the barriers mentioned in the previous question respondents were
asked to rate their preferences on possible bicycle facility improvements. The top three needs identified were better street
lighting, more separation from traffic, and more bicycle facilities. More bicycle parking and storage, as well as education
received the weakest response.
How great is the need for the following improvements to
              support BIKING in Bluffdale?
250


200


150


100


50
      74              72                 80        77
              60             62                                          55          62
                                                            28
 0




                                  Great Need   Minor Need   Not a Need        Don't Know
APPENDIX B – ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PROJECT INFORMATION SHEETS
                                        Construct Bike Lanes and Sidewalks
                                                  on 14600 South



Project Overview
Add bike lanes and sidewalks on 14600 South
between Redwood Road and I-15, including
1700 West and 14400 South.

Benefits
This route provides an important east/west
connection for active transportation users but
is currently viewed as dangerous for
pedestrians and bicyclists due to narrow
shoulders, lack of sidewalks, and the
bottleneck at the railroad bridge.

Funding
Estimated Cost: $11,500,000 (including both
the 14600 widening project ($6,500,000) and
Railroad Underpass project ($5,000,000)).

Timeline
Short term: Completed in 1 – 6 years.
                                              Add Bike Lanes and Complete
                                               Sidewalks on 13800 South



Project Overview
Improve 13800 South to complete cross-
section with bike lanes and sidewalks to
facilitate bicycle and pedestrian traffic. This
project should be included with future
roadway construction.

Benefits
Sidewalks along 13800 South are currently
disconnected forcing pedestrians to walk in
the street. The roadway is too narrow for bike
lanes; cyclists must share the roadway with
automobiles.

Funding
Estimated Cost: $4,500,000 (as part of full
roadway reconstruction). 13800 South is a
shared road with Riverton, and therefore the
costs and improvements will need to be
coordinated and shared with Riverton City.

Timeline
Medium term: Completed in 6 – 10 years.
                                       Complete Bike Lanes and Sidewalks
                                      14400 South (Redwood Rd to 2200 W)



Project Overview
Widen 14400 South from Redwood Road to
2700 West from a 2-lane cross section to a 3-
lane cross section. The new cross section
should include bike lanes and sidewalks
Benefits
Widening the roadway to a 3-lane cross
section will increase the capacity of 14600
South by providing a TWLTL for drivers to use
for left turn movements.

Funding
Estimated Cost: $2,200,000 (as part of full
roadway reconstruction).

Timeline
Short Term: Completed in 1 – 6 years.
                                        Extend Multi-Modal Facilities along
                                            Porter Rockwell Boulevard



Project Overview
Complete the extension of Porter Rockwell
Boulevard to Redwood Road, including bike
lanes and shared-use pathway.

Benefits
A multi-modal cross section will provide safe
pedestrian facilities for the high-density
residential housing in the area. Bike lanes will
serve the regional bicycling community.

Funding
Estimated Cost: $104,000,000 (UDOT)
This project is part of the WFRC Long Range
Plan and will be constructed by UDOT.

Timeline
Short Term: Completed in 1 – 6 years.
                                      Add Flashes for Pedestrian Crossing
                                       at 2700 West and Country Classic



Project Overview
Add user initiated flashers at crosswalk.



Benefits
Improve safety for pedestrians crossing 2700
West.

Funding
Estimated Cost: $8,000

Timeline
This project is not connected to road
construction, installation could occur at any
time.




                                                                Google Earth Street View
                                         Complete Sidewalk Network to
                                          Support North Star Academy



Project Overview
Complete sidewalk network around North
Star Academy and Wardle Fields Regional
Park.

Benefits
Improve safety and walkability for pedestrians
accessing North Star Academy and
recreational facilities at Wardle Fields
Regional Park.

Funding
Estimated Cost: $ 135,000

Timeline
This project is not connected to road
construction. Bluffdale could also install
sidewalks at any time should funding become
available. Alternatively, sidewalks will be
completed as part of future residential
developments in the area.
                                      Pedestrian and Bicycle Connection
                                        with Herriman at 14400 South



Project Overview
Construct a pedestrian bridge over canal to
connect Bluffdale and Herriman.

Benefits
Constructing an active transportation
connection between Bluffdale and Herriman
will provide pedestrian access to the areas
education and recreation facilities.

Funding
Estimated Cost: Undetermined


Timeline
As parks and schools are constructed in
Herriman, Bluffdale should enable these
connections.




                                                               Google Earth Street View
                                          Active Transportation Connections
                                               Between Parry Farms and
                                                    Independence


Project Overview
Construct active transportation connections
between Parry Farms and Independence.

Benefits
Facilitating connections will provide
pedestrian access from higher density
residential areas to recreation facilities, local
trails, and regional trail connections via
Jordan River Parkway Trail.

Funding
Estimated Cost: Undetermined

Timeline
As new developments are constructed in the
area, Bluffdale should facilitate and fund
these connections.
APPENDIX C – CITY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
                                        ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
                                   14600 South from 1690 West to PRB
Bid Item                                             Quantity    Units        Price                    Cost
Mobilization                                            1          LS    $   800,000.00 $                 800,000.00
Traffic Control                                         1          LS    $   500,000.00 $                 500,000.00
Survey                                                  1          LS    $   130,000.00 $                 130,000.00
Granular Borrow (8 inches)                           21,054       TON $            20.00 $                421,084.91
Untreated Base Course (6 inches)                     15,346       TON $            26.60 $                408,200.30
Hot Mix Asphalt - 1/2 inch (4 inches)                11,268       TON $            84.00 $                946,551.42
Curb and Gutter                                      16,253      FOOT $            17.25 $                280,357.35
Concrete Sidewalk                                    97,516      SQ FT $            4.50 $                438,820.20
Concrete Driveway                                     4,277      SQ FT $            5.00 $                 21,385.00
Contingency (50%)                                        1         LS    $ 1,973,199.59 $               1,973,199.59
                                                                       Roadway Subtotal $               5,919,598.77
Preliminary Engineering (10%)                            1         LS    $   591,959.88 $                 591,959.88
Construction Engineering (15%)                           1         LS    $   887,939.82 $                 887,939.82
Environmental Document                                   1         LS    $    85,000.00 $                  85,000.00
                                                           Engineering Services Subtotal $              1,564,899.69
Right of Way Consultant                                 87      Property $     6,500.00 $                 565,500.00
Right of Way                                         470,470     SQ FT $            6.25 $              2,940,437.50
                                                                   Right-of-Way Subtotal $              3,505,937.50
                                                                 TOTAL $ 10,990,435.97
                                        TOTAL INCLUDING INFLATION (2030) $ 14,770,226.91

Assumptions:
Full roadway reconstruction.
Pavement section 3- 12' lanes and 2-8' shoulders (52).
RR structure and RAB will be removed as part of the UDOT project. This project will also purchase the necessary ROW
for this section.
Contingency includes, removals/excavation, fence (removal/replacement), utility relocation, landscaping, cut/fill,
pavement markings, signage, etc.
There will be no 4f property concerns with the park as it is owned by the county. Plus no additional ROW is needed on
this property.
                                 ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
                  Widen 14600 South - Redwood Rd to Porter Rockwell Blvd.
Bid Item                                               Quantity     Units        Price                     Cost
Mobilization                                              1           LS    $    940,000.00 $                 940,000.00
Traffic Control                                           1           LS    $    680,000.00 $                 680,000.00
Survey                                                    1           LS    $    165,000.00 $                 165,000.00
Roadway Excavation                                      44,444      CU YD   $         11.00 $                 488,888.89
Granular Borrow (8 inches)                              37,867       TON    $         20.00 $                 757,333.33
Untreated Base Course (6 inches)                        27,600       TON    $         26.60 $                 734,160.00
Hot Mix Asphalt - 1/2 inch (4 inches)                   20,267       TON    $         84.00 $               1,702,400.00
Curb and Gutter                                         19,000      FOOT    $         17.25 $                 327,750.00
Concrete Sidewalk                                      114,000      SQ FT   $          4.50 $                 513,000.00
Concrete Driveway                                       19,500      SQ FT   $          5.00 $                  97,500.00
Signal Modications                                        2         EACH    $    250,000.00 $                 500,000.00
Contingency (50%)                                         1           LS    $ 3,453,016.11 $                3,453,016.11
                                                                          Roadway Subtotal $               10,359,048.33
Preliminary Engineering (10%)                              1         LS     $ 1,035,904.83 $                1,035,904.83
Construction Engineering (15%)                             1         LS     $ 1,553,857.25 $                1,553,857.25
Environmental Document                                     1         LS     $     85,000.00 $                  85,000.00
                                                               Engineering Services Subtotal $              2,674,762.08
                                                                  TOTAL $ 13,033,810.42
                                         TOTAL INCLUDING INFLATION (2050) $ 31,636,478.88

Assumptions:
Full roadway reconstuction.
Will not need to widen the RR structure. Assume it will be widened by the previous project to the full 5-lane buildout.
Assume the widening of 14600 South will be included in the maintenance agreement with UPRR from the 3-lane cross-
section structure.
Cross Section: 5 - 12' Lanes, 2-10' Shoulders, 4' Parkstrips and 6' Sidewalks.
The horizontal alignment near the RR tracks will be straightened as part of the previous project.
The roundabout will be removed when the horizontal aligment is straightened.
Assume the necessary ROW will be obtained prior to this project.
Contingency includes, removals, fence (removal/replacement), utility relocation, landscaping, cut/fill, pavement markings,
signage, etc.
                                      ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
                          13900 South Connection - 2700 West to 2950 West
Bid Item                                                Quantity    Units        Price                      Cost
Mobilization                                               1          LS    $   110,000.00 $                   110,000.00
Traffic Control                                            1          LS    $    25,000.00 $                    25,000.00
Survey                                                     1          LS    $    13,000.00 $                    13,000.00
Roadway Excavation                                       2,917      CU YD $            8.60 $                   25,083.33
Granular Borrow (8 inches)                               2,485       TON $            20.00 $                   49,700.00
Untreated Base Course (6 inches)                         1,811       TON $            26.60 $                   48,179.25
Hot Mix Asphalt - 1/2 inch (4 inches)                    1,330       TON $            84.00 $                  111,720.00
Curb and Gutter                                          2,500      FOOT $            17.25 $                   43,125.00
Concrete Sidewalk                                       12,500      SQ FT $            4.50 $                   56,250.00
Concrete Driveway                                        1,000      SQ FT $            5.00 $                    5,000.00
Parkstrip Landscaping                                      1          LS    $     2,000.00 $                     2,000.00
Contingency (25%)                                           1         LS    $   121,764.40 $                   121,764.40
                                                                          Roadway Subtotal $                   610,821.98
Preliminary Engineering (10%)                               1         LS    $    61,082.20 $                    61,082.20
Construction Engineering (15%)                              1         LS    $    91,623.30 $                    91,623.30
Environmental Document                                      1         LS    $    20,000.00 $                    20,000.00
                                                              Engineering Services Subtotal $                  172,705.49
Right of Way Consultant                                     4      Property $     6,500.00 $                    26,000.00
Right of Way                                             86,250     SQ FT $           15.00 $                1,293,750.00
                                                                      Right-of-Way Subtotal $                1,319,750.00
                                                                                      TOTAL $           2,103,277.47

Assumptions:
Does not include any future utilities the City may want to install along this new roadway.
Minor corridor typical Section (no buffer for the bike lane, min. required widths).
The roadway excavation may be used as fill for the tie in slopes (no additional fill is anticiated).
ROW will go to the back of walk - permits to enter and construct for the tie in locations.
Road will be built by 2020.
Contingency includes, removals/excavation, fence (removal/replacement), utility relocation, landscaping, cut/fill,
pavement markings, signage, etc.
                                       ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
                                   2700 West - 14200 to 14400 South
Bid Item                                              Quantity     Units       Price                  Cost
Mobilization                                             1           LS    $ 40,000.00 $                 40,000.00
Traffic Control                                          1           LS    $ 29,000.00 $                 29,000.00
Survey                                                   1           LS    $    8,000.00 $                8,000.00
Granular Borrow (8 inches)                              795         TON    $       20.00 $               15,904.00
Untreated Base Course (6 inches)                        580         TON    $       26.60 $               15,417.36
Hot Mix Asphalt - 1/2 inch (4 inches)                   426         TON    $       84.00 $               35,750.40
Curb and Gutter                                        1,400       FOOT $          17.25 $               24,150.00
Concrete Sidewalk                                      4,988       SQ FT $          4.50 $               22,446.00
Pedestrian Access Ramp                                   3         EACH $       2,000.00 $                6,000.00
Concrete Driveway                                      1,814       SQ FT $          5.00 $                9,067.50
Contingency (50%)                                         1          LS    $ 102,867.63 $               102,867.63
                                                                       Roadway Subtotal $               308,602.89
Preliminary Engineering (10%)                              1         LS    $ 30,860.29 $                 30,860.29
Construction Engineering (15%)                             1         LS    $ 46,290.43 $                 46,290.43
Environmental Document                                     1         LS    $ 28,000.00 $                 28,000.00
                                                            Engineering Services Subtotal $             105,150.72
Right of Way Consultant                                    5      Property $    6,500.00 $               32,500.00
  Residential (R-1-43)                                  7,344      SQ FT $          6.25 $               45,900.00
  Residential ROW Damages (Garage)                        1        EACH $ 16,789.50 $                    16,789.50
  Church Pavillion Property                             3,600      SQ FT $         10.00 $               36,000.00
  Church Property                                       3,900      SQ FT $         10.00 $               39,000.00
                                                                   Right-of-Way Subtotal $              170,189.50
                                                                 TOTAL $     583,943.11
                                        TOTAL INCLUDING INFLATION (2050) $ 1,417,383.20

Assumptions:
Widening will occur to the west - 12' additional roadway (crown will no longer be in the center of the roadway).
Existing Roadway can be protected in place.
Keep protected bike lane with existing dimensions.
No ROW will be required at the park.
No considerations of the school zone due to the high level (included in contingency).
Church's parking stalls may all be protected in place.
No ROW damages will be paid to the church pavillion.
Damages will be paid to the impacted garage lot.
Contingency includes, removals/excavation, fence (removal/replacement), utility relocation, landscaping, cut/fill,
pavement markings, signage, etc.
There will be no 4f property concerns with the park as it is owned by the county. Plus no additional ROW is needed
on this property.
Drainage will be able to handle the additional hardscape. The new catchbasins can tie into the existing mainline.
ROW assume that they will only need 12' wide strip.
                                      ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
                         Intersection Improvements on Noell Nelson Drive
                          - between 14600 South & Porter Roackwell Blvd.
Bid Item                                                  Quantity     Units       Price          Cost
                                                Typical 4-Leg Intersection
Granular Borrow (8 inches)                                   85         TON     $      20.00 $       1,704.00
Untreated Base Course (6 inches)                             62         TON     $      26.60 $       1,651.86
Hot Mix Asphalt - 1/2 inch (4 inches)                        46         TON     $      84.00 $       3,830.40
Curb and Gutter                                             400        FOOT $          17.25 $       6,900.00
Concrete Sidewalk                                          2,000       SQ FT $          4.50 $       9,000.00
Pedestrian Access Ramp                                       4         EACH $       2,000.00 $       8,000.00
Contingency (50%)                                            1           LS     $ 15,543.13 $       15,543.13
                                                                   4-Leg Intesection Subtotal $     46,629.39
                                                Typical 3-Leg Intersection
Granular Borrow (8 inches)                                   43         TON     $      20.00 $         852.00
Untreated Base Course (6 inches)                             31         TON     $      26.60 $         825.93
Hot Mix Asphalt - 1/2 inch (4 inches)                        23         TON     $      84.00 $       1,915.20
Curb and Gutter                                             200        FOOT $          17.25 $       3,450.00
Concrete Sidewalk                                          1,000       SQ FT $          4.50 $       4,500.00
Pedestrian Access Ramp                                       4         EACH $       2,000.00 $       8,000.00
Contingency (50%)                                            1           LS     $ 40,857.83 $       40,857.83
                                                                   3-Leg Intesection Subtotal $     60,400.96
Mobilization                                                 1           LS     $ 60,000.00 $       60,000.00
Traffic Control                                              1           LS     $ 45,000.00 $       45,000.00
Survey                                                       1           LS     $ 14,000.00 $       14,000.00
4-Leg Intersection                                            2        EACH $ 46,629.39 $           93,258.78
3-Leg Intersection                                            7        EACH $ 60,400.96 $          422,806.69
Future Signal                                                 1        EACH $ 175,000.00 $         175,000.00
                                                                           Roadway Subtotal $      810,065.47
Preliminary Engineering (10%)                                 1          LS     $ 81,006.55 $       81,006.55
Construction Engineering (15%)                                1          LS     $ 121,509.82 $     121,509.82
Environmental Document                                        1          LS     $ 14,000.00 $       14,000.00
                                                               Engineering Services Subtotal $     216,516.37
Right of Way Consultant                                      11       Property $    6,500.00 $      71,500.00
  Residential                                                11      ch Turn La $   5,625.00 $      61,875.00
                                                                       Right-of-Way Subtotal $     133,375.00
                                                                  TOTAL $ 1,266,987.18
                                         TOTAL INCLUDING INFLATION (2050) $ 3,075,310.42

Assumptions:
Future Intersections will have a left, thru, and right turn lanes.
Bike lanes will convert to a sharro with the thru lane.
Widening for this layout will be an additional 6' wide.
Assume a standard 100' right turn lane length.
Assumed a right turn at the park.
Assume 1 signal will be installed with the improvements.
                               ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE
       Bringhurst Extension - Connect Bringhurst Drive to Jordan Narrows Road
Bid Item                                                Quantity    Units        Price                      Cost
Mobilization                                               1          LS    $   300,000.00 $                   300,000.00
Traffic Control                                            1          LS    $    85,000.00 $                    85,000.00
Survey                                                     1          LS    $    40,000.00 $                    40,000.00
Roadway Excavation                                       8,233      CU YD $            8.60 $                   70,806.67
Granular Borrow (8 inches)                               6,646       TON $            20.00 $                  132,912.00
Untreated Base Course (6 inches)                         4,844       TON $            26.60 $                  128,845.08
Hot Mix Asphalt - 1/2 inch (5 inches)                    4,446       TON $            84.00 $                  373,464.00
Curb and Gutter                                          5,400      FOOT $            17.25 $                   93,150.00
Concrete Sidewalk                                       27,000      SQ FT $            4.50 $                  121,500.00
Concrete Driveway                                        2,160      SQ FT $            5.00 $                   10,800.00
Parkstrip Landscaping                                      1          LS    $    40,000.00 $                    40,000.00
Contingency (25%)                                           1         LS    $   339,119.44 $                   339,119.44
                                                                          Roadway Subtotal $                 1,735,597.18
Preliminary Engineering (10%)                              1          LS    $   173,559.72 $                   173,559.72
Construction Engineering (15%)                             1          LS    $   260,339.58 $                   260,339.58
Environmental Document                                     1          LS    $    45,000.00 $                    45,000.00
                                                              Engineering Services Subtotal $                  478,899.30
Right of Way Consultant                                    6       Property $     6,500.00 $                    39,000.00
Right of Way                                            213,300     SQ FT $           10.00 $                2,133,000.00
                                                                      Right-of-Way Subtotal $                2,172,000.00
                                                                TOTAL $ 4,386,496.48
                                    TOTAL INCLUDING NO INFLATION (2050) $ 10,647,178.28

Assumptions:
Does not include any future utilities the City may want to install along this new roadway.
Major corridor typical Section (no buffer for the bike lane, min. required widths).
The roadway excavation may be used as fill for the tie in slopes (no additional fill is anticiated).
ROW will go to the back of walk - permits to enter and construct for the tie in locations.
Contingency includes, removals/excavation, fence (removal/replacement), utility relocation, landscaping, cut/fill,
pavement markings, signage, etc.
No impacts to the adjacent canal.
APPENDIX D – CHANGES IN 2020 TMP UPDATE
Page 1 of 3



                                        MEMORANDUM

Appendix D - Changes in the 2020 Bluffdale Transportation Plan Update
                                                                                       UT19-1450

This memorandum discusses the changes that were made to the Bluffdale Transportation Plan in
the 2020 update. These changes include modifications to the project lists, the report maps, and
text within the report.

Transportation Master Plan Update

The original Transportation Plan adopted in August 2017 focused on a future analysis based
around the year 2040. At the time, 2040 was the future planning horizon that the Wasatch Front
Regional Council (WFRC) travel demand model was built for. However, since 2017, WFRC has
adopted a new Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) that looks out to the year 2050 in addition to
the years 2030 and 2040. Based on these new horizon years, this update to the Bluffdale
Transportation Plan focused on future analyses for the years 2030 and 2050 to determine short-
term (2030) and long-term (2050) transportation demand and needs.

In addition, the travel demand model, transportation master plan and impact fee facilities plan
were updated based on a consistent growth projection developed by Hansen, Allen, & Luce. This
consistent growth model ensures that all of the City master plans and impact fees are based on
the same assumptions, land use plans, and growth projections.

Project List Changes

Some of the projects listed in the original Transportation Plan have since been completed and are
not included in the updated project lists. The following are the projects listed in the original
Transportation Plan with an indication if they have been completed:

    Short–term Projects (1–6 years):

    1. [COMPLETED] Widen 14400 S. from Redwood Road to 2200 W. to a three-lane road.
    2. Widen 14600 South railroad underpass to two lanes.
    3. Widen 14600 South to five-lane cross section from I-15 to 800 West and a three-lane cross
       section from 800 West to Redwood Road.
    4. Improve 14400 South / Loumis Parkway Intersection with roundabout or other
       improvement.
    5. [COMPLETED] Construct new collector road at 1780 West

                       1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                                         www.halesengineering.com
Page 2 of 3

    6. Complete Porter Rockwell Boulevard extension to Redwood Road (this is part of the
       WFRC Long Range Plan and will be constructed by UDOT).
         a. [PARTIALLY COMPLETED] Three to five lanes will be constructed initially from
             14600 South to the river.
         b. [COMPLETED] Five lanes will be constructed from Redwood Road (SR-68) to
             Jordan River by 2018.
         c. The bridge across the river will be completed by 2020.

    Medium-term Projects (6–10 years):

    7. Widen 2700 West from Bangerter Highway to 14400 South to a consistent, three-lane
       cross section.
    8. Widen 13800 South to a three-lane cross section from 3600 West to the canal.
          a. Construct canal crossing for 13800 South to the west.

    Long-term Projects (10–20 years):

    9. Construct an urban interchange at the Porter Rockwell Boulevard / 14600 South
        interchange.
    10. Construct the future roadway system around Porter Rockwell Boulevard and I-15 Frontage
        Roads (Pony Express).
    11. Extend a one-way I-15 Frontage Road System (Pony Express) from Lehi to 14600 South.
    12. Future I-15 Interchange near gravel pits.

The projects that have not yet been completed have either been kept with the new project lists or
modified based on new plans and analyses. For example, the previous project 2 to widen the
railroad underpass on 14600 South has now been modified to be a grade-separated overpass
over the railroad. The new project lists for Bluffdale City and UDOT projects are provided in the
updated Transportation Plan in Tables 10 – 13.

Report Changes

The following are the sections that were changed as part of the 2020 update to the Transportation
Plan:
   • Introduction:
           o Updated names in acknowledgments tables
   • Existing Conditions:
           o Added discussion regarding the new future analysis methodology
           o Added details regarding growth projections and the travel demand model, including
               new figures
           o Updated the zoning map

                       1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                                         www.halesengineering.com
Page 3 of 3

              oUpdated the existing traffic control map
              oUpdated the roadway level of service thresholds to match the latest Highway
               Capacity Manual methodologies
    •   Future Conditions:
           o Updated the WFRC RTP list to match the latest plan
           o Added discussion regarding the 2030 and 2050 travel demand modeling
           o Added figures showing no-build future volumes and LOS
    •   Transportation System Recommendations:
           o Updated the project lists, as discussed previously
           o Updated the proposed roadway map with roadway types and intersection controls
           o Added figures showing build future volumes and LOS
    •   Appendices
           o Included only the active transportation projects in Appendix B
           o Added cost estimates for City projects in Appendix C
           o Added this memorandum to Appendix D




                      1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                                        www.halesengineering.com
                 BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
REPORT




                        Appendices   iv
                                                                Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                          August 2021




 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
 Bluffdale is located between Bangerter Highway and I-15 which are major transportation routes in Salt
 Lake and Utah Counties. Because of Bluffdale’s central location, it is an attractive area for workers from
 the two most populous counties in Utah.
 Figure 1: Bluffdale Boundary




 Source: Utah AGRC

 Bluffdale has a growing population that is forecast by the State to increase at near 2.1 percent per year
 over the next thirty years. The City is anticipated to reach a population in excess of 22,000 by 2050, a
 near 66 percent increase from current indications. The City is unique in that it has a very low median
 age – 26.2, according to the American Community Survey, the U.S. Census Bureau, and the State of
 Utah. The countywide median age is 32.9, suggesting that Bluffdale has a unique position of young
 families in a rapidly growing area. Despite the youthful makeup of the city, the median household
 income is in excess of $105,000, nearly 50 percent greater than the countywide median of roughly
 $68,000.

 The combination of a growing populace, low median ages, and high incomes presents an attractive
 future climate for potential retailers and employers. Consequently, it is important for Bluffdale to
 properly plan its key corridors and development sites to maximize growth opportunities.


ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                          1
                                                               Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                        August 2021




 Figure 2: Salt Lake County Household Sizes




 Source: US Census ACS 2019 5-Year Estimate


 POPULATION AND GROWTH
 The rapid population growth across the Salt Lake Valley has been capturing headlines for a decade.
 Bluffdale is also growing quickly, and future growth is estimated to remain high compared to Salt Lake
 County. Undeveloped land is becoming scarce in Salt Lake County, and the City has partnered with
 neighboring communities to plan for the best use of an important resource.




ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                      2
                                                                         Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                                   August 2021


 Figure 3: Projected Population Growth Rates, 2020-2050

   3.50%
                                                                      3.17%

   3.00%


   2.50%
                                                                                 2.14%
   2.00%
                                                                                                         1.73%
               1.53%        1.57%
   1.50%                                                                                     1.43%
                                          1.32%


   1.00%


   0.50%

                                                            0%
   0.00%
            West Jordan South Jordan     Riverton        Copperton   Herriman   Bluffdale   Salt Lake   Southwest
                                                                                             County      Valley*

 Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute and US Census

 The relocation of the prison site will also bring extra growth to the area along with new opportunities for
 the City. The map below highlights future population growth along the Point of the Mountain. In
 Bluffdale, growth is expected to occur in the southern area of the City, especially along I-15. Most of the
 undeveloped land in the City is in these areas of expected growth, but they are currently zoned for the
 gravel pit to the north and agriculture to the south.




ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                3
                                                                    Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                        August 2021




 Figure 4: Point of the Mountain Area Estimated Population Change




 Source: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute

 The following table shows how many acres select areas in the County will need for projected growth to
 be realized. Area needed for growth depends on the cities’ desired densities. Bluffdale could only need
 40 acres or more but also could fit all growth inside four acres.




ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                       4
                                                                             Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                                  August 2021




 Table 2: Acres Needed per Year to Meet Projected Growth from 2020-2060

   City/Area                      15,000 Sq. Ft. Lots                7,500 Sq. Ft. Lots     1,500 Sq. Ft. Lots
                                     (3 du/acre)                       (5.5 du/acre)       (30 du/Acre – Apts)
   West Jordan                         170 Acres                         85 Acres               17 Acres


   South Jordan                        190 Acres                         95 Acres               19 Acres


   Riverton                            60 Acres                          30 Acres               6 Acres


   Herriman                            150 Acres                         75 Acres               15 Acres


   Bluffdale                           40 Acres                          20 Acres               4 Acres


   Salt Lake County                   2,100 Acres                      1,050 Acres             210 Acres

 Source: Population Estimates from Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute




 EDUCATION
 A slight majority (51 percent) of residents in Bluffdale do not have a college degree, although 76 percent
 of the City’s population 25 and over have at least some college education. This is higher than the State
 of Utah, where almost 70 percent of the population has attended some college. Compared to Bluffdale,
 the State has a larger percentage of citizens who hold advanced degrees. Figure 5 on the next page
 shows how educational attainment is broken up in Bluffdale.




ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                             5
                                                                Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                           August 2021




 Figure 5: Bluffdale College Attainments




                                    9%

                                                  23%
                                                                               Less than High School
                                                                               High School or Equivalent
                    25%
                                                                               Some College
                                                                               Associate's Degree
                                                                               Bachelor's Degree
                                                                               Graduate or Professional Degree

                                                  27%
                              15%




 Source: ACS 2019 5-Year Estimate


 EMPLOYMENT
 The top four industries by number of employees in Bluffdale are, in order, educational services, and
 health care and social assistance; professional, scientific, and management and administrative and
 waste management services; retail trade; and manufacturing.

 The table on the next page compares the workforce in Bluffdale to that of the State of Utah. The
 Bluffdale and Utah Percentage columns show what percentage of workers are employed in the given
 industry. The Bluffdale Quotient shows where Bluffdale has concentrations of workers relative to the
 State. A value greater than 1 suggests that the City has a larger proportion of the given workforce, and a
 value less than 1 suggests that the City has fewer jobs in the industry compared to the State.

 Despite smaller concentrations of employees in information, finance, and wholesale trade industries in
 the City as a whole, these industries are more highly concentrated in Bluffdale than they are in the
 State.




ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                         6
                                                                    Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                          August 2021




 Table 1: Jobs Accessible in 30-Minute Transit Ride per Capita

                                             Bluffdale Bluffdale          Utah        Utah       Bluffdale
                                             Workforce Percentage         Workforce   Percentage Quotient
     Agriculture, forestry, fishing and
   hunting, and mining                                71          1.12%       25694       1.72%         0.65
     Construction                                    728         11.48%      107416       7.17%         1.60
     Manufacturing                                   627          9.88%      154154      10.30%         0.96
     Wholesale trade                                 164          2.59%       37266       2.49%         1.04
     Retail trade                                    838         13.21%      173869      11.61%         1.14
     Transportation and warehousing,
   and utilities                                     273          4.30%       73253       4.89%         0.88
     Information                                     206          3.25%       31724       2.12%         1.53
     Finance and insurance, and real
   estate and rental and leasing                     499          7.87%      103881       6.94%         1.13
     Professional, scientific, and
   management, and administrative
   and waste management services                     994         15.67%      186638      12.46%         1.26
     Educational services, and health
   care and social assistance                       1297         20.45%      331352      22.13%         0.92
     Arts, entertainment, and
   recreation, and accommodation and
   food services                                     220          3.47%      136012       9.08%         0.38
     Other services, except public
   administration                                    301          4.75%       65812       4.40%         1.08
     Public administration                           125          1.97%       70283       4.69%         0.42


 Bluffdale and other communities in the southwest areas of the County lag in jobs available in a square
 mile and jobs available within a 30-minute drive. The graphs below highlight both indicators and show
 that Bluffdale has work to do in the employment sector.




ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                      7
                                                                    Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                                August 2021




 Figure 6: Jobs Within One Square Mile




                    23,950             23,400




                                                     16,200



                                                                                                     10,760
                                                                                      9,100



                                                                    4,200




               West Jordan          South Jordan    Riverton      Copperton          Herriman       Bluffdale

 Source: US Census On-The-Map Tool

 Figure 7: Jobs Accessible in 30-Minute Transit Ride per Capita

       Bluffdale                0.50
      Herriman               0.35
     Copperton        -
       Riverton                     0.61
   South Jordan                0.48
   West Jordan                      0.58
         Draper                        0.77
          Sandy                       0.70
        Midvale                                                                                     4.33
         Kearns                                    1.57
         Murray                                                               3.10
    West Valley                      0.65
     Taylorsville                                  1.54


 Source: ACS 2019 Five Year Estimates




ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                            8
                                                                         Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                                   August 2021


 RETAIL
 Retail sales distribution from the State to municipalities is based off point of sale and population. When
 compared to other states, Utah’s system for sales tax distribution is somewhat unique and can be an
 important factor in planning decisions so as to maximize fiscal benefits to a City.

 The global pandemic has accelerated a trend of increasing online sales. In Bluffdale, 25 percent of the
 approved budget comes from sales tax distributions. There is a smaller commercial presence in Bluffdale
 than there is in Salt Lake County, so the City is reliant on the State’s distribution based on population
 rather than point of sale.

 Most residents of Bluffdale travel to other communities for better shopping and dining options. This, as
 the graph below shows, is not uncommon for southwest Salt Lake County. Lower sales per capita across
 the area suggest that Bluffdale residents travel further than neighboring communities for a greater
 selection of retail.
 Figure 8: Retail Sales per Capita



                                                                                         $26,168

                       $22,895



       $17,090                                                                                          $16,989
                                     $14,698                                 $15,073




                                                                $7,715

                                                    $4,547




     West Jordan South Jordan        Riverton      Copperton   Herriman      Bluffdale   Salt Lake     Southwest
                                                                                          County        Valley*

 Source: Utah State Tax Commission and US Census




ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                               9
                                                                 Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                       August 2021




 Figure 9: Retail Sales per Capita


                Percent of Southwest Study Area Taxable Sales

                                                     Bluffdale
                                               Herriman
                                            Copperton 4%
                                                  6%
                                               0%
                                     Riverton
                                       14%                         West Jordan
                                                                      40%




                                      South Jordan
                                          36%




 Source: Utah State Tax Commission


 TRANSPORTATION
 About half of Bluffdale’s workers travel more than 10 minutes for work, with 25 percent of workers
 commuting on Interstate 15.1 As a result, transportation costs are much higher in Bluffdale than Salt
 Lake County’s average and are even higher than the communities that make up the Southwest Valley.




 1
     US Census On-The-Map

ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                     10
                                                                        Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                                  August 2021




 Figure 10: Yearly Transportation Costs


                                                 $17,648
                                                                            $16,500
                                    $16,023                   $15,587                                  $15,996
                       $15,426
           $14,789
                                                                                        $13,999




       West Jordan South Jordan    Riverton     Copperton    Herriman       Bluffdale   Salt Lake     Southwest
                                                                                         County        Valley*


 Source: Center for Neighborhood Technology

 Beyond facing higher transportation costs, workers from Bluffdale face congestion issues as well. With
 substantial growth occurring in the area, upwards of 40,000 commuters travel along Bangerter Highway
 each day.2



 KEY NODES
 It is critical that Bluffdale focus on its key nodes in order to develop greater economic sustainability for
 the City. Key nodes for commercial development are identified as the following sites:

       •     14600 S and I-15
       •     Bangerter and Redwood Road
       •     Bangerter and 2700 West
       •     Porter Rockwell and Camp Williams

 Considerations for these sites include:

       •     The ability to capitalize on visibility and access from I-15 with Class A office development
       •     Appearance and attractiveness of gateways to the City
       •     Secondary locations for professional office and incubator space
       •     Building on existing development and amenities such as regional parks

 2
     UDOT Average Daily Traffic Counts

ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                              11
                                                                  Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                             August 2021


      •   Potential for hotel development
      •   Favorable market conditions and trends such as flex office space
      •   Synergistic development with redevelopment of the Prison site
      •   Ability to attract consumers from a larger region




 TOOLS FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
 Bluffdale should consider implementing some specific policies to help establish a proper ratio of
 commercial and residential space. These may include the following:

      •   Public Infrastructure District (PID) – This development tool allows a city to establish specific
          requirements and guidelines for new construction. A PID is a financing tool that permits a
          property owner to issue bonds against tax revenues or assessments created from the
          development. It requires 100 percent property ownership approval, so it typically relates to
          single-ownership developments. A city can require specific development in “exchange” for
          approval of a PID, thereby allowing the city to have notable say in what type of development
          occurs at key sites. Bluffdale should consider adopting a PID policy that closely outlines its vision
          for a mixture of commercial and residential types.

      •   Community Reinvestment Area (CRA) – A CRA is an economic development tool that allows for
          capturing new increases in taxable values, with those gains to be spent within a defined project
          area. This tool is intended to aid projects that would not otherwise be built with existing market
          conditions. A city creates a project area plan for defined boundaries and outlines key objectives
          and purposes of the planned tax financing. Bluffdale may choose to incentivize specific types of

ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                        12
                                                                 Bluffdale Economic Development
                                                                                           August 2021


          commercial development or make requirements that for residential development to receive
          funding assistance, a certain amount of commercial space also be added.


 These and other tools can operate independently or collectively. A proper application of the right tools
 in the correct areas will aid in reducing commute times, income spent on transportation and will
 increase the number of local options for employment.

 GOALS AND STRATEGIES

 Goal: Diversify Bluffdale’s tax base, reducing the City’s dependency on property taxes

          Strategy:      Attract retail businesses, including a hotel, to the area to build up sales tax base

          Strategy:      Utilize economic incentives for key industries and businesses at key nodes in the
                         City

 Goal: Reduce retail sales leakage outside of the City

          Strategy:      Utilize economic development tools to provide incentives, as necessary, to
                         target specific business types

          Strategy:      Partner with businesses to expand current operations or to bring in retail
                         sectors that the City lack

 Goal: Promote job growth for current and future residents, thereby reducing
 transportation costs and commute times

          Strategy:      Increase vocational, technological, recreational, and entrepreneurial
                         employment opportunities in accordance with State of Utah Cluster Initiatives

          Strategy:      Work closely with the Governor’s Office of Economic Development and
                         EDCUtah on possible locations for new businesses

          Strategy:      Focus on key nodes within the City that have the highest development potential




ZIONS PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                       13
                   BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




2022 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
STRATEGIC PLAN




                          Appendices   v
                           Bluffdale City Council
               2022 Strategic Plan for Economic Development


Purpose:

   ●   To identify and define specific economic development goals, objectives, and strategies
       for the City
   ●   To use information and data to strategically prioritize economic development activity,
       from both a City perspective and a citizen perspective
   ●   To prioritize economic development activities to efficiently utilize City resources
   ●   To set measurable goals regarding achieving stated objectives
   ●   To obtain direction, guidance, and support from the City Council to staff and Planning
       Commission to help accomplish economic development goals of the city
   ●   To adapt to changing economic conditions and priorities, and to update the plan
       accordingly
   ●   To educate the development community regarding the City’s priorities to create an
       effective partnership
   ●   To utilize a regular sub-committee to discuss Economic Development progress and
       alignment with the City’s goals
Transportation & Infrastructure
Objectives, Strategies, Goals & Measurements

Objective:
Invest in and prioritize transportation, active transportation, and infrastructure projects/programs
that will facilitate economic development activities.

Strategy 1: Complete a 14600 South Master Plan
Goal: Develop and complete a master plan that shows the future vision for the corridor from I-15
to Redwood Road, and which identifies short and long-term projects to achieve the master plan.
The Master Plan should have specific projects that need to be completed to achieve the final
plan.
Measurement: By February 28, 2022, have the plan completed from the trestle east to I-15 and
presented to the City Council;
by December 2023, complete corridor study from the Trestle west to Redwood Road.

Strategy 2: Develop and implement strategies that support a future I-15 interchange adjacent to
Point Crossing
Goal: Focus on the development of a new I-15 interchange by engaging property owners,
regional planning agencies, UDOT, lobbyists, committees, and elected officials.
Measurement: Status report by December 31, 2022

Strategy 3: Analyze options for increased broadband internet in the community
Goal: Evaluate pros/cons of city-wide fiber installation options and the potential costs to the City
and to citizens.
Measurement: Report to Council with findings and recommendations by December 31, 2022

Strategy 4: Complete a comprehensive update to the City’s Trails and Active Transportation
Plan
Goal: To improve mobility, safety, and quality of life and to prioritize which projects to devote
limited resources to.
Measurement: Fund consulting budget by July 1, 2022
Planning & Zoning
Objectives, Strategies, Goals & Measurements

Objective:
Develop and/or enhance city plans to guide economic growth and development

Strategy 1: Follow up on any recommended ordinance or policy development changes adopted
in the 2022 General Plan or the Economic Development Strategic Plan
Goal: Develop ordinances and policies in accordance with adopted plans
Measurement: Complete necessary ordinance development which implements plan
recommendations by December 31, 2022

Strategy 2: Ensure zoning along key corridors and gateway nodes reflects the city’s economic
development goals
Goal: Update zoning and allowed uses at gateway nodes and key corridors, as necessary so
that zoning aligns with economic development goals and to assure that landowners and
developers understand our goals early on
Measurement: By December 31, 2022, complete zoning changes recommended by the 2022
General Plan
Marketing, Branding, Image
Objectives, Strategies, Goals & Measurements

Objective:
Promote a positive public image that is attractive to residents and commercial investment and
enhances Bluffdale’s desirability. Public image should create a sense of place, be consistent
with adopted branding standards, and let those entering the city through a Gateway easily
recognize that they are in Bluffdale.

Strategy 1: Rename key streets to improve recognition and enhance key areas.
Goal: Complete branding of 2700 W business corridor between Bangerter Highway and 14000
South.
Measurement: Complete renaming/re-branding of corridor by December 31, 2022.

Strategy 2: Construct gateway monuments with signage in key City entries
Goal: Provide funding and authorization for professional design and construction of monument
features and electronic messaging / signage in identified gateways
Measurement: By July 1, 2022, designate and fund at least one location

Strategy 3: Have a modern and robust communication program to provide regular updates and
relevant information to residents and businesses using various forms of media.
Goal: Prepare recommendations for the City’s communication program and acquire necessary
resources
Measurement: Hire new communications position by April 1, 2022. New Staff to present any
necessary budget requests for FY 22-23, approved by July 1, 2022

Strategy 4: Survey the community regarding economic development and fiscal impact concerns
and preferences to determine how their opinions align with the City’s strategies, opportunities,
and constraints. Complete a survey on a recurring time table or when major economic
development milestones have been achieved.
Goal: To identify trends, desires, and achievable economic development outcomes from the
public’s perspective
Measurement: Complete a reliable citizen survey by outside consultant by October 12, 2022
Economic Development and Business-Friendly Processes
Objectives, Strategies, Goals & Measurements


Objective:
Enhance economic development functions and tools within the city to strengthen our focus and
provide necessary resources to achieve goals. Create a business-friendly environment through
streamlined processes and updated codes and regulations.

Strategy 1: Set clear priorities or ranked preferences to focus limited resources on achieving
economic development goals that are supported by community attributes
Goal: Develop ranked preference list for types of economic development activities to encourage
or incentivize, using categories such as: sales tax revenue, assessed value growth, community
service provision, targeted service sectors, jobs, incubators, industrial and manufacturing, traffic
generators, external impacts, community compatibility
Measurement: By July 1, 2022, develop an economic development priority matrix

Strategy 2: Have strategies and plans for targeted use of RDA funds and available incentives
Goal: Establish written priorities and evaluative criteria for RDA participation, evaluate fund
balances and agency financial obligations twice annually.
Measurement: Evaluate funds, obligations and adopt adopt a RDA policy resolution by October
1, 2022

Strategy 3: Continuously work toward facilitating targeted businesses or industries
Goal: Communicate project wins and potential opportunities in regular emails or at meetings, as
the case may be
Measurement: Throughout the year provide regular updates on ongoing efforts and action items
to the economic development committee or City Council via email

Strategy 5: Maximize development of City owned parcels on Redwood Road pursuant to
preferred economic development outcomes
Goal: Determine approach for property ownership, marketing, and infrastructure to achieve
goals and preferred timelines
Measurement: Approve development scenario approach and timeline by July 1, 2022
Accomplishments (or substantial completion) since Plan Inception
   ● 14600 S pre-environmental Trestle Study Completed and presented to Council
   ● Initial funding for trestle received from legislature, $20M
   ● 14600 South (east of trestle) study budgeted and nearing completion
   ● General Plan funded and nearing completion, early 2022
   ● Audited and reported on UDOT and UTA long range plans, 1/2021
   ● Adopted updated sign code
   ● Reported on and studied Form-Based Codes
   ● Adopted updated design standards in GC-1 zone and City-wide
   ● Renamed 14600 S to Bluffdale Blvd (commemorative)
   ● Renamed Camp Williams Road to Redwood Road
   ● Completed City Branding Guide, including street signs
   ● Continued Economic Development emphasis to all employees
   ● Evaluated Community and Economic Development dept. staffing needs
   ● Implemented Iworq online portal for public works, fleet, building and engineering
     permitting and business licensing
   ● Re-organized and re-assigned business licensing dept
   ● Adopted updated business license code
   ● Adopted updated alcohol licensing code to facilitate additional retail licenses
   ● Adopted transportation impact fee reduction for non-residential development approved
     June 9, 2021
   ● Presented RDA Training and funding priorities to agency in 2020 and 2021
   ● Completed and marketed professional supermarket location analysis
   ● Discovered and followed up with multiple grocer leads

Specific Results
   ● 2020 Commercial Building Permits:
          ○ 9 stand alone buildings
          ○ 19 tenant space improvements
          ○ $21.7M valuations
   ● 2021 Commercial Building Permits:
          ○ 12 stand alone buildings
          ○ 32 Tenant Space Improvements
          ○ $43.7M valuations
   ● 2021 Business Licenses:
          ○ 172 total new business licenses
          ○ 81 new commercial licenses (not home occupations)
   ● Infrastructure snapshot
          ○ $1.5M Corridor Preservation Funding for Freedom Point Way
          ○ $20M for the “Trestle” Study, Design and Construction
          ○ 14600 S completed to Redwood Road
          ○ 4.5M gallon drinking water tank
          ○ Loumis Parkway / 14400 S intersection re-design
                  BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




2021 MODERATE INCOME
HOUSING REPORT




                         Appendices   vi
                                     2020 UPDATE MIH PROGRESS REPORT
                                          2019 Strategic Options

    1. Strategy: Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, accessory dwelling units
       (ADUs) in residential zones

Goals:
    •    Extend accessory dwelling units to all single-family residential zones
    •    Streamline process by removing the conditional use permit requirement and permitting the use,
         thereby allowing zoning administrator approval

ADU permits previously required Conditional Use Permit approval and a public hearing – now the approval is
administrative by the Zoning Administrator.

Specific outcomes that strategy intends to accomplish:

    ●    Decrease non-conformities of those creating apartments within a home – by providing legal pathways
         to do it
    ●    Provide more certainty for accessory dwelling unit housing options by making it permitted which
         allows it to be approved by a zoning administrator rather than involving a public hearing
             o      Simplify process by allowing accessory dwellings to be a permitted use, based on objective
                    standards
             o      Zoning administrator approval – reduced review and approval times, rather than noticing for a
                    public hearing

    How has municipality monitored its annual progress toward achieving the goals? :

    ●    To achieve the goals of increasing accessory dwelling units in the community by allowing them in
         additional zoning districts and not requiring a conditional use permit, there were text amendments to
         the city’s land use ordinance in 2019. This allowed the zoning administrator as the Land Use Authority,
         provided additional specific standards for ADUs, and allowed them to be essentially City-wide.

    ●    Records of ADU approvals and building permits related to ADUs

5a: Identify key tasks of each stage needed to accomplish the goals:

    •    This primarily occurred by way of two text amendments in 2019. The ADU municipal code chapter was
         amended as well as the administration and procedures code chapter.
    •    Accessory dwelling units were a conditional use before in most zones
    •   Tried to address community concerns about parking within ordinance

Identify parties responsible for completing the key tasks of each stage identified in item immediately
above in 5a:

The zoning administrator, planning commissioners, city council members, the planning staff, administration,
building official, and the public citizens were involved in completing key tasks.

Describe resources that city must allocate to complete the key task of each stage identified above in 5a:

Resources primarily include: city staff review time, Planning Commission and City Council hearing time,
application fees and building inspection time.

State specific deadlines for completing key tasks of each stage:

Deadlines include: project application deadlines for text amendments, public hearing/notice deadlines based on
the hearing date, and building permit deadlines.

Which of key tasks have been completed so far, and what were their results?

Both text amendments have occurred and were successful in increasing accessory dwelling unit rights in
Bluffdale City. Additionally, three (3) new accessory dwelling units have been issued since adoption of the new
ordinance.

If any of tasks were unsuccessful how is city addressing negative results? :

NA, results were successful

What, (if any) barriers did city encounter during course of implementation of said goals? :

No barriers were encountered as the goals were well received. Off-street parking, however, does remain a
community concern for all housing types.




    2. Strategy: Allow for higher density or moderate income residential development in
       commercial and mixed-use zones, commercial centers, or employment centers

Goal:

Continue to facilitate completion of varying mixed use projects – including infrastructure implementation

Specific outcomes that strategy intends to accomplish? :

Increase variety of housing options in Bluffdale City and allow for housing flexibility for all ages and incomes
How has municipality monitored its annual progress toward achieving the goals? :

Annual progress has occurred through project application processes and timelines. Additionally, progress has
occurred through building permits to the city.

5a: Identify key tasks of each stage needed to accomplish the goals:

Aspects of the project process, like development review meetings with applicants, review processes, public
meetings, notice periods, approval documents and other notice steps.

Identify parties responsible for completing the key tasks of each stage identified in item immediately
above in 5a:

The zoning administrator, planning commissioners, city council members, the planning staff, administration,
building official, and the public citizens were involved in completing key tasks.

Describe resources that city must allocate to complete the key task of each stage identified above in 5a:

Resources primarily include: city staff review time, Planning Commission and City Council hearing time,
application fees and building inspection time.

State specific deadlines for completing key tasks of each stage:

Deadlines include: project application deadlines for subdivisions, public hearing/notice deadlines based on the
hearing date, and building permit deadlines.

Which of key tasks have been completed so far, and what were their results?

New neighborhoods – with a variety of housing sizes and unit types - were constructed in this time period, with
some of them including parks and schools.

If any of tasks were unsuccessful how is city addressing negative results? :

NA

What, (if any) barriers did city encounter during course of implementation of said goals? :

NA



     3. Strategy: Utilize a MIH set aside from a community reinvestment agency, redevelopment
        agency, or community development and renewal agency.
Goals:

     •   Continue to make same regular payments to local affordable apartment owners to offset maintenance
         and upkeep costs until expiration of redevelopment areas that include the housing set aside
     •   Look for additional opportunities within the city when developing a new proposed CRA, such as SLCO,
         or with the non-profit, HousingConnect
Specific outcomes that strategy intends to accomplish? :

Outcomes that this strategy intends to accomplish are to increase the variety of housing options in Bluffdale City
to allow for housing flexibility for all ages/incomes, as well as to offset rental increases and application fees.

How has municipality monitored its annual progress toward achieving the goals? :

The city has annual discussions with project/property owners to monitor progress.

5a: Identify key tasks of each stage needed to accomplish the goals:

Key tasks consist of administrative staff internal discussions regarding future recommendations for the agency
for use of funds.

Identify parties responsible for completing the key tasks of each stage identified in item immediately
above in 5a:

Parties responsible for completing tasks consist of administrative staff, the city manager, the economic
development director, and the finance director.

Describe resources that city must allocate to complete the key task of each stage identified above in 5a:

Resources mainly consist of staff time for meetings, calls, and coordination on committees.

State specific deadlines for completing key tasks of each stage:

The primary need is to review materials annually.

Which of key tasks have been completed so far, and what were their results?

There have been continuous efforts with continuous payments to specific projects. There have also been
participation agreements for specific developments.

If any of tasks were unsuccessful how is city addressing negative results?:

NA

What, (if any) barriers did city encounter during course of implementation of said goals?

NA
Section 1: Population by tenure in Bluffdale city
                                    2009          2017
                                                             Annual                                                               Difference
         Table B01003            American       American                                                        2025
                                                           Growth Rate                                                          between 2017
         Table B25008           Community Community                                                           Projection
                                                             (Slope)                                                              and 2025
                                   Survey        Survey
Total Population:
(ACS Table B01003)                     7,425        10,869         437                                                13,160           2,291
Total Population in occupied
housing units
(ACS Table B25008)                     7,425        10,869         435                                                13,128           2,259
Total Population in owner-
occupied housing
(ACS Table B25008)                     6,571         8,954         333                                                10,821           1,867
Total Population in renter-
occupied housing
(ACS Table B25008)                       854         1,915         102                                                 2,308             393
Source 1: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B01003: Total population. American Community Survey.
Source 2: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B25008: Total population in occupied housing units by tenure. American Community Survey.


Section 2: Supply of housing units by structure type in Bluffdale city
                                   2009          2017
                                                              Annual                                                              Difference
         Table B25001            American     American                                                          2025
                                                           Growth Rate                                                          between 2017
         Table B25032          Community Community                                                            Projection
                                                              (Slope)                                                             and 2025
                                  Survey        Survey
TOTAL HOUSING UNITS
(ACS Table B25001)                    1,875         2,822           116                                                3,531             709
Total occupied units
(ACS Table B25032)                    1,787         2,716           113                                                3,411             695
Owner-occupied structures
(ACS Table B25032)                    1,522         2,254             92                                               2,812             558
   1 unit, detached                   1,363         2,080           102                                                2,713             633
   1 unit, attached                     122           132             -3                                                 111             -21
   2 units                                0             0              0                                                   0               0
   3 or 4 units                           0             0             -3                                                 -14             -14
   5 to 9 units                          11            25             -2                                                   9             -16
   10 to 19 units                        26            17             -2                                                  -6             -24
   20 to 49 units                         0             0              0                                                   0               0
   50 or more units                       0             0              0                                                   0               0
   Mobile homes                           0             0              0                                                   0               0
   Boat, RV, van, etc.                    0             0              0                                                   0               0
Renter-occupied structures
(ACS Table B25032)                      265           462             22                                                  599            137
   1 unit, detached                      87           111              8                                                  218            107
   1 unit, attached                      36            56             -1                                                   16            -40
   2 units                                0             0              0                                                    0              0
   3 or 4 units                          34             0             -2                                                    2              2
   5 to 9 units                          10            49              2                                                   38            -11
   10 to 19 units                        98           183              8                                                  240             57
   20 to 49 units                         0             0              0                                                    0              0
   50 or more units                       0            63              6                                                   85             22
   Mobile homes                           0             0              0                                                    0              0
    Boat, RV, van, etc.                                         0                  0                   0                0              0
Source 1: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B25001: Total housing units. American Community Survey.
Source 2: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B25032: Tenure by units in structure. American Community Survey.


Section 3: Housing occupancy in Bluffdale city
                                 2009           2017
                                                           Annual                                                             Difference
         Table B25003          American       American                                                       2025
                                                         Growth Rate                                                        between 2017
         Table B25081         Community Community                                                          Projection
                                                           (Slope)                                                            and 2025
                                Survey         Survey
Total households in occupied
housing units
(ACS Table B25003)                   1,787         2,716         113                                             3,411               695
Total households in owner-
occupied housing
(ACS Table B25003)                   1,522         2,254           92                                            2,812               558
   With a Mortgage
   (ACS Table B25081)                1,253         1,784           61                                            2,111               327
   Without a Mortgage
   (ACS Table B25081)                  269           470           31                                              701               231
Total households in renter-
occupied housing
(ACS Table B25003)                     265           462           22                                              599               137
Source 1: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B25003: Tenure. American Community Survey.
Source 2: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B25081: Mortgage status. American Community Survey.


Section 4: Housing vacancy in Bluffdale city
                                     2009       2017
                                                           Annual                                                             Difference
                                   American   American                                                       2025
         Table B25004                                    Growth Rate                                                        between 2017
                                  Community Community                                                      Projection
                                                           (Slope)                                                            and 2025
                                    Survey     Survey
Total vacant units
(ACS Table B25004)                         88        106            2                                              120                14
   For rent
   (ACS Table B25004)                       0         25            4                                               66                41
   Rented, not occupied
   (ACS Table B25004)                       0          0            0                                                   0              0
   For sale only
   (ACS Table B25004)                       0         44            5                                               65                21
   Sold, not occupied
   (ACS Table B25004)                      74          0           -8                                               -69              -69
   For seasonal, recreational, or
   occasional use
   (ACS Table B25004)                       0          5            0                                                   4             -1
   For migrant workers
   (ACS Table B25004)                       0          0            0                                                   0              0
   Other vacant
   (ACS Table B25004)                      14         32            1                                               55                23
Source 1: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B25003: Tenure. American Community Survey.


Section 5: Average household size in
                                                   2009                2017
                                                 American            American                                2025
            Table B25010
                                                Community           Community                              Projection
                                                  Survey              Survey
Average Household Size
(ACS Table B25010)                                         4.16                    4                                    3.85
Average Owner
Household Size
(ACS Table B25010)                                         4.32               3.97                                      3.85
Average Renter
Household Size
(ACS Table B25010)                                         3.22               4.15                                      3.85
Source 1: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B25010: Average household
size of occupied housing units by tenure. American Community
Survey.


Section 6: Monthly housing costs in Bluffdale city
                                                    2009               2017
                                                                                            Annual                             Difference
            Table B25088                         American            American                                    2025
                                                                                        Growth Rate                          between 2017
            Table B25064                       Community Community                                             Projection
                                                                                            (Slope)                            and 2025
                                                  Survey              Survey
Total owner-occupied
housing unit costs
(ACS Table B25088)                                     $1,663              $1,963                    $19              $2,124 $         161
    Units with a mortgage
    (ACS Table B25088)                                 $2,023              $2,268                    $16              $2,363 $          95
    Units without a mortgage
    (ACS Table B25088)                                    $493                $563                   $10                $633 $          70
Median gross rent
(ACS Table B25064)                                     $1,103              $1,173                    -$2
Source 1: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B25088: Median selected monthly owner costs (Dollars) by mortgage status. American
                                                                                                                      $1,005 $        (168)
Community Survey.
Source 2: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B25064: Median gross rent (Dollars). American Community Survey.


Section 7: Median household income in Bluffdale city
                                  2009        2017
                                                         Annual                                                                  Difference
                                American    American                                                         2025
        Table B25119                                   Growth Rate                                                             between 2017
                               Community Community                                                         Projection
                                                         (Slope)                                                                 and 2025
                                 Survey      Survey
Median household income
(ACS Table B25119)                 $84,864    $105,391       $1,465                                            $106,773 $            1,382
Owner-occupied income
(ACS Table B25119)                 $87,708    $113,966       $2,306                                            $128,529 $           14,563
Renter-occupied income
(ACS Table B25119)                 $48,250     $65,212         $769                                             $54,443 $          (10,769)
Source 1: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B25119: Median household income that past 12 months by tenure. American Community
Survey

Section 8: Salt Lake County Area Median Income (AMI)*
                                   2009        2017
                                                                                         Annual                                  Difference
        Table B19019             American    American                                                        2025
                                                                                       Growth Rate                             between 2017
        Table B19119            Community Community                                                        Projection
                                                                                         (Slope)                                 and 2025
                                  Survey      Survey
Median HOUSEHOLD income
(ACS Table B19019)                                         $0             $67,922              $4,987            $109,679    $   41,757
   1-person household                                 $29,347             $35,234                $680             $39,400    $    4,166
   2-person household                                 $60,515             $70,072              $1,063             $76,112    $    6,040
   3-person household                                 $66,549             $79,895              $1,452             $87,757    $    7,862
   4-person household                                 $72,043             $88,785              $1,883             $99,734    $   10,949
   5-person household                                 $72,151             $87,250              $1,461             $92,922    $    5,672
   6-person household                                 $79,716             $92,268              $1,019             $93,541    $    1,273
   ≥ 7-person household                               $81,746             $96,814              $1,165             $97,309    $      495
Median FAMILY income
(ACS Table B19119)                                    $66,413             $78,828              $1,342              $85,868   $    7,040
   2-person family                                    $59,252             $68,991                $973              $74,200   $    5,209
   3-person family                                    $63,983             $78,081              $1,557              $87,394   $    9,313
   4-person family                                    $72,222             $88,255              $1,877              $99,082   $   10,827
   5-person family                                    $73,345             $87,065              $1,310              $91,148   $    4,083
   6-person family                                    $80,836             $92,594              $1,006              $93,644   $    1,050
   ≥ 7-person family                                  $85,906             $95,705                $749              $91,785   $   (3,920)
Source 1: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B19019: Median household income that past 12 months by household size. American
Community Survey
Source 2: U.S. Census Bureau. Table B19119: Median family income in the past 12 months by family size. American Community
Survey
*NOTE: AMI is calculated at the COUNTY level.
UCA 10-9a-408(2)(c)(i)
Calculate the municipality's housing gap for the current year by entering the number of moderate-
income renter households, affordable and available rental units from TABLE 1 below:
     2020         Renter      Affordable Available       Affordable Units      Available Units
   Shortage    Households Rental Units Rental Units - Renter Households - Renter Households
≤ 80% HAMFI         260          340           245                         80                  -15
≤ 50% HAMFI         120          140           70                          20                  -50
≤ 30% HAMFI          55           25            0                         -30                  -55

Calculate the municipality's housing gap for the previous annual by entering the number of
moderate-income renter households, affordable and available rental units from TABLE 2 below:
    2016          Renter      Affordable Available       Affordable Units     Available Units
  Shortage     Households Rental Units Rental Units - Renter Households - Renter Households
≤ 80% HAMFI         235          325           240                         90                   5
≤ 50% HAMFI         130          120           60                         -10                 -70
≤ 30% HAMFI          50           35            15                        -15                 -35

Subtract Table 2 from Table 1 to estimate progress in providing moderate-income housing
                   Renter    Affordable Available      Affordable Units     Available Units
 PROGRESS
                Households Rental Units Rental Units - Renter Households - Renter Households
≤ 80% HAMFI               25          15            5                   -10                 -20
≤ 50% HAMFI             -10           20          10                     30                  20
≤ 30% HAMFI                5         -10         -15                    -15                 -20


UCA 10-9a-408(2)(c)(ii)
Report the number of all housing units in the municipality that are currently subsidized by each
level of government below:

    Municipal Government:         0           Subsidized by municipal housing programs
       State Government:          0           Subsidized by Utah's OWHLF multi-family program
     Federal Government:         336          Subsidized by the federal Low-Income Housing Tax
                                              Credit (LIHTC) program

UCA 10-9a-408(2)(c)(iii)
Report the number of all housing units in the municipality that are currently deed-restricted for
moderate-income households in the box below:

                                 336
                                   Residential Development & Housing
and other landscaping in residential developments cannot be overemphasized. After the initial stage
of development, the proper maintenance of yards and structures should be emphasized in the City’s
residential standards and zoning codes.

Affordable Housing and Housing Diversity
The predominance of one-acre lots in Bluffdale has led to
higher property values, and concerns about affordability               Blended Communities
and accessibility for young, aging, and low-to-moderate
                                                                       Best Practices
income groups. The City has increased the land allocated to
multi-family residential uses in recent years, and the planned         Housing development
development and construction of apartment complexes,                   should seek to provide a
condominiums, and other more affordable housing types has              variety of housing types
become significant. The City’s current inventory of affordable         that includes distinct
housing units is 531 units, or 25 percent of the total housing         architecture, density, scale
inventory.                                                             and type, as well as different
                                                                       income levels of households
Because most of the City’s VLDR land is built out, a
                                                                       within neighborhoods.
high percentage of future population growth will be
accommodated in areas of new development, where much
higher density is envisioned and a significant quantity of more
affordable housing can be accommodated. The City’s Mixed Use areas outline numerous goals that
include higher densities and a more diverse integration of development features. These areas would
allow a variety of residential product types, price points, and could include townhomes, apartments,
condominiums, live/work units, and detached structures on smaller lots.
Encouraging a variety of housing options supports several important community functions. In
coming years communities across the Wasatch Front will need to accommodate an aging and more
culturally diverse population. A variety of housing types allows a community to meet the needs
of all stages of the “lifecycle”, which includes first homes, family homes, empty nests, and special
needs housing. Moreover, Utah State Code (Section 10-9a-403) requires consideration of moderate-
                                                                income housing in the general plan, and
                                                                charges cities to facilitate a “reasonable
   Design Guidelines Best Practices for Housing                 opportunity” for moderate income
   Create a variation in housing mix (architectural             housing. The US Department of Housing
   styles, lot sizes and building types and sizes) in           and Urban Development (HUD) defines
   walkable communities. This creates greater visual            moderate income housing to include:
   interest along sidewalks for pedestrians. In contrast,
                                                                “Housing occupied or reserved for
   streets lined with identical homes and blank
                                                                occupancy by households with a gross
   garage doors make walking less appealing. In new
                                                                household income equal to or less than
   residential areas, a mix of housing models and
                                                                80 percent of the median gross income
   architectural treatments are recommended.
                                                                for households of the same size in the
                                                                county in which the City is located.”




                                                                                                        31
Bluffdale General Plan
Area Median Income Levels
                                                          Accessible Housing Best Practices
HUD’s Area Median Income (AMI) and average                Construct housing with practical
household size data for Salt Lake County are used         features that provide basic access and
to determine moderate income thresholds for an            functionality for people of all ages
average household. In 2014, the Salt Lake County          and various mobility and ambulatory
AMI is $70,300 and the average household size             capabilities. Housing design should
is 2.96 (rounded to 3.0 for analysis). This puts          include options for current and future
the moderate-income threshold at $50,650 for the          accessibility needs of family members
County. HUD’s standard for housing affordability          and friends by utilizing the minimum
is that housing expenses are no higher than 30            requirements of the Fair Housing
percent of gross monthly income. This calculation         Act Design Manual. Encourage
of housing expenses includes mortgage/rent                opportunities to include housing that is
payment, utilities, and insurance.                        visitable by people of all levels of ability.
Affordable housing at the moderate income
threshold of $50,650 is calculated in this way:
     • $50,650 annual income / 12 months = $4220.83 monthly income
     • $4220.83 monthly income * 30 percent allocated for housing = $1,266.25 per month
     • $1,266.25 housing expense minus an assumed average $300 in non-rent expenses (e.g. utilities,
       taxes, insurance) = $966.25.
Therefore, a family of three can afford a rent or mortgage payment of approximately $966 per month.
In terms of property rental, this translates simply. For the purpose of analyzing what this means in
terms of home ownership, it is more complex. To calculate an affordable house price for the same
family of three, the following calculations currently apply:
                                                  •     Expendable mortgage income = $966/month.
                                                  •     Average interest rate of 4.5% on a 30-year loan.
                                                  •     Assume a 10% down payment.
                                                  With a $21,000 down payment, this family could
                                                  afford a $210,000 home (roughly $190,000 financed).
                                                  As interest rates increase from current historic lows,
                                                  this equation will change significantly, and homes
                                                  will become less affordable unless incomes rise.

                                                  Analysis of Affordability
                                                  Currently Bluffdale has 2,148 housing units. These
                                                  consist of 1,796 single family units, 168 apartment
                                                  units, and 184 condominiums. Table 1.2 below shows
                                                  Bluffdale’s distribution of single-family units by


32
                                          Residential Development & Housing
 home value, according to 2014 parcel data from the Salt Lake County Assessor’s Office. This parcel
 data indicates that 179 (approximately 10 percent) of Bluffdale’s single-family homes are valued at or
 below $200,000 (the current approximate affordability threshold in Salt Lake County). The City also
 allows accessory apartments in single family homes in all residential zones, which further increases
 the affordable rental housing supply.
                                                      Bluffdale’s multi-family housing is presently
           Market Price of                 Number     concentrated at “The Bluffs” development, which
        Single Family Homes               of Homes    includes 168 apartments and 184 condominiums
                                                      and makes up 16 percent of the total number of
  Less than $50,000                              34   housing units in the City. Assuming about $300 per
  $50,000-$100,000                               31   month in utility and other housing costs, rent rates
  $100,000-$150,000                              50   should be $966 or lower to be affordable. Apartments
  $150,000-$200,000                              64   at The Bluffs range from $750 to $850 in rent per
  $200,000-$250,000                             100   month. Condominiums are currently being sold
                                                      with an average asking price slightly under $190,000.
  $250,000-$300,000                             341
                                                      Therefore all apartments and condominiums in
  $300,000-$350,000                             413   Bluffdale currently meet the “affordability” threshold.
  $350,000-$400,000                             361
                                    At present, Bluffdale is achieving and actively
  $400,000-$450,000                             190
                                    accommodating reasonable opportunity for moderate-
  $450,000-$500,000                              77
                                    income households to live in the City. Combining
  $500,000-$550,000                              40
                                    affordable multi- and single-family units brings the
  $550,000-$600,000                              25
                                    total affordable housing supply to 531 (about 25
  $600,000-$650,000                 percent). A new apartment development (Beacon
                                                 18
  $650,000-$700,000                 Hills) is under construction and will add 168 units to
                                                 15
                                    the affordable supply. Moreover, as Independence
  $700,000-$750,000                               8
                                    and other east side developments are constructed,
  More than $750,000                             26
                                    a significant addition to the inventory of affordable
 TABLE 2.1: BLUFFDALE SINGLE FAMILY living units will be achieved. In the coming 10 years
 HOME VALUES                        or so, Independence alone will add an estimated
 Source: 2014 SLCO Assessor Parcel Data




Figure 2.2 Vintage on the Bluff Condominiums.


                                                                                                          33
Bluffdale General Plan




Figure 2.3 Townhomes in the Independence development.

3,600 dwelling units to the city, with over 400 townhome
                                                                  Housing Best Practices
units, over 900 apartment units, and a denser and more
affordable mix of single-family housing products overall.         Design communities in a manner
These additions will dramatically increase the percentage         that is conducive to walkable and
of affordable units in the city. Bluffdale City will routinely    transit-friendly neighborhoods, to
analyze its compliance with the State’s requirements to           reduce the demand for additional
plan for, protect, and accommodate a reasonable supply            road capacity. Encourage greater
of moderate-income housing, as measured using the                 choice in housing to reduce
80% AMI formula for affordability and a minimum 20%               demand on infrastructure. Greater
affordable supply target.                                         choice in housing would reduce
                                                                  land consumption and increase
KEY VALUES AND CHARACTER PROTECTION                               redevelopment, thus reducing
                                                                  demand for new sewer, water
Bluffdale’s unique character is a result of many factors,         and transportation infrastructure
including its geographic location at the narrow neck              significantly.
between two urban counties, topography from the Jordan
River bottom to the high bluff, and the predominance
of residential housing. To protect and preserve existing
subdivisions it is necessary to maintain the character of the housing stock. To protect the quality of
life and unique character of established neighborhoods, Bluffdale’s zoning ordinances and policies
should carefully and comprehensively address this issue. Specific factors that are critical include:
average front yard setbacks, maximum building heights, lot sizes for new subdivisions, maximum
lot coverage, and accessory structures.
One of the most substantial changes to residential land use in the city will occur along Redwood
Road, where a primarily residential use is expected to evolve toward a commercial and retail focus.


34
                   BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




2021 WATER CONSERVATION
PLAN UPDATE




                          Appendices   vii
2021 WATER CONSERVATION
            PLAN UPDATE
         (HAL Project No.: 394.02.100)




                    December 2021
     CITY OF BLUFFDALE
2021 WATER CONSERVATION PLAN UPDATE



      (HAL Project No.: 394.02.100)




      Robert B. Sowby, Ph.D., P.E., ENV SP
                 Project Engineer




       859 W. South Jordan Pkwy. Ste. 200
            South Jordan, UT 84095
                 801-566-5599
           www.hansenallenluce.com


              December 2021
TABLE OF CONTENTS


TABLE OF CONTENTS ............................................................................................................. i

CHAPTER 1 – INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................ 1-1

CHAPTER 2 – EXISTING WATER SYSTEM ......................................................................... 2-1
 SYSTEM PROFILE ............................................................................................................. 2-1
 INVENTORY OF WATER RESOURCES............................................................................. 2-1
 SUPPLY .............................................................................................................................. 2-2
 WATER MEASUREMENT ................................................................................................... 2-3
 BILLING .............................................................................................................................. 2-6
   Current Water Rate Structure ........................................................................................... 2-6
 WATER USE ....................................................................................................................... 2-6

CHAPTER 3 – CONSERVATION ISSUES AND GOALS ....................................................... 3-1
 IDENTIFIED PROBLEMS .................................................................................................... 3-1
 GOALS ................................................................................................................................ 3-1

CHAPTER 4 – CONSERVATION MEASURES & IMPLEMENTATION .................................. 4-1
 EXISTING CONSERVATION MEASURES.......................................................................... 4-1
 PROPOSED CONSERVATION MEASURES ...................................................................... 4-3
 DROUGHT RESPONSE ACTIONS ..................................................................................... 4-4

REFERENCES

APPENDIX A
     BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL ADOPTION OF WATER CONSERVATION PLAN

APPENDIX B
     SUMMARY OF JVWCD WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS

APPENDIX C
     CITY OF BLUFFDALE CODE ON WATER CONSERVATION




Bluffdale City                                                       i                  2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
                                                 LIST OF TABLES

Table 2-1        2019 Water System Connections ..................................................................... 2-1
Table 2-2        Summary of Bluffdale City Water Sources ....................................................... 2-2
Table 2-3        Summary of JVWCD Connections ................................................................... 2-3
Table 2-4        Bluffdale City Percent Metered Connections by Type of Use ........................... 2-4
Table 2-5        Comparison of Water Produced to Metered Water Use.................................... 2-4
Table 2-6        2019 Water Rate Structure .............................................................................. 2-6
Table 2-7        Bluffdale City Historical Water Supply Summary .............................................. 2-6
Table 2-8        2019 Per Capita Water Use by Type ................................................................ 2-8
Table 4-1        Existing Conservation Measures ...................................................................... 4-1
Table 4-2        Proposed Conservation Measures ................................................................... 4-3
Table 4-3        Water Conservation Action Plan ...................................................................... 4-4

                                                LIST OF FIGURES

Figure 2-1       Water System Service Area Map ............................................................. After 2-1
Figure 2-2       Bluffdale City Percent Metered Connections by Type of Use ........................... 2-4
Figure 2-3       Comparison of Water Produced to Metered Water Use.................................... 2-5
Figure 2-4       Bluffdale City Historical Water Supply Summary .............................................. 2-7
Figure 2-5       Historical Per-Capita Water Use ...................................................................... 2-8
Figure 2-6       Future Use Comparision .................................................................................. 2-9




Bluffdale City                                               ii               2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
CHAPTER 1 – INTRODUCTION


The City of Bluffdale recognizes the need for proactive planning to meet the water needs of its
citizens. The Utah State Legislature has passed legislation requiring public water suppliers to
prepare a Water Conservation Plan and then to update the plan periodically. This 2021 report is
an update of the City’s 2015 Water Conservation Plan. This report describes the drinking water
system, summarizes water consumption, assesses the water conservation alternatives available
to the City, sets goals to conserve water, and identifies existing and proposed water conservation
measures to be implemented by the City.

The new Regional M&I 2030 Water Conservation Goal for the Salt Lake region is to reduce
consumption by 11% from the year 2015 to 2030, resulting in a reduction goal of 210 to 187 gpcd
(HAL and BCA, 2019). Bluffdale City is already below the regional goal, and therefore, has the
goal to also have an 11% reduction from 2015 to 2030, following the same trajectory as the
regional goal. The City was at 171 gpcd in 2015. So for 2030 the City’s goal is to be at 152 gpcd.

Appendix A includes the resolution documenting the City’s adoption of the conservation plan
update.




Bluffdale City                                 1-1            2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
CHAPTER 2 – EXISTING WATER SYSTEM


SYSTEM PROFILE

Located along the Jordan River corridor in southern Salt Lake County, Bluffdale has grown
steadily during its transition from rural land use to residential subdivisions. In 2019, the City
reported to the Division of Water Rights an estimated population of 16,350 people.

Bluffdale owns and operates a public water system serving 4,242 connections (Utah Division of
Water Rights 2019). These connections include domestic (4,066), commercial (118), and
institutional (58) customers with both indoor and outdoor water uses. A summary of the current
connections by type is shown in Table 2-1.

                         Table 2-1: 2019 Water System Connections
                           Connection Type      Total Connections
                               Residential               4,066
                               Commercial                 118
                                Industrial                 0
                               Institutional               58
                                  Total                  4,242


The drinking water system consists of three main pressure zones (Zone 1, Zone 2, and Zone 3
from low to high) and one intermediate pressure zone (Bluffdale Heights). Zone 1 and Zone 2 are
divided into east and west (Zone 1E, 1W, etc.) according to their position relative to the Jordan
River.

All potable water is purchased from Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD), which
delivers water through nine metered connections. The City has water storage capacity in three
tanks, one of which it shares with JVWCD. The City’s drinking water pipe network contains some
90 mi of pipe, according to GIS data provided during the 2019 Drinking Water Master Plan. About
50% is 8 in. diameter and over 90% is PVC material. About 30% of the pipe was installed in the
last 15 years.

Bluffdale has no citywide irrigation system but owns and operates several irrigation facilities
serving different areas. Since not all secondary water is metered, secondary water is excluded
from this report.

INVENTORY OF WATER RESOURCES

The City’s drinking water system extends throughout the municipal boundaries covering an area
of approximately 11.14 mi2. Currently, the water system provides water to 4,066 residential, 118
commercial, 0 industrial, and 58 institutional (public) connections. Figure 2-1 shows the system
and service area boundaries.



Bluffdale City                                 2-1              2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
                                                                                                                                                       Figure 2-1: Existing Drinking Water System
                                                                                                                                                       City of Bluffdale - Water Conservation Plan                                              Zone1W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           El
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ev .≈4360-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4570f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t
                                                                                                                                                                   13800 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Max.HGL≈4710f t

                                                                                                                                                                             3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                           2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Zone1E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           El
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ev .≈4360-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4570f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         t
                                                                                                                                                                                                 F
                                                                                                                                                                                                 G                                                                         Max.HGL≈4710f t
                                                                                                                                                                                       14400 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14600 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F
                                                                                                                                                            Zone2W
                                                                                                                                                       El
                                                                                                                                                        ev .≈4570-
                                                                                                                                                                 4740f
                                                                                                                                                                     t
                                                                                                                                                       Max.HGL≈4860f t                           G
                                                                                                                                                                                                 F   15000 S                  F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G                                G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               F
Document Path: H:\Projects\394 - Bluffdale\02.100 General Consulting\2021 Water Conservation Plan\GIS\WCP_Figure 2-1_Existing System with labels.mxd




                                                                                                                                                                                                 F
                                                                                                                                                                                                 G                           G"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lvd.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ll B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            kwe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R o c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  uffdaleHei   sZone
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            gh t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Por
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Elev .≈4570-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4640ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Max.HGL≈4740f   t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Zone2E(Fu t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ure)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Red




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      El
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ev .≈4570-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4740ft(TBD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   woo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Max.HGL≈4830f  t(TBD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ro a




                                                                                                                                                           "
                                                                                                                                                           )
                                                                                                                                                           P Pump
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        d




                                                                                                                                                           G Existing JVWCD Connection
                                                                                                                                                           F
                                                                                                                                                           Pipe Diameter (in.)
                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                                12

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Zone3
                                                                                                                                                                16

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    El
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ev .≈4740-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4940f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                18
                                                                                                                                                           Pressure Zone
                                                                                                                                                                Zone 1E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Max.HGL≈5000f t
                                                                                                                                                                Zone 1W
                                                                                                                                                                Bluffdale Heights
                                                                                                                                                                Zone 2E
                                                                                                                                                                Zone 2
                                                                                                                                                                Zone 3
                                                                                                                                                                City Boundary



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    °
Date: 5/19/2021




                                                                                                                                                       0                              1 Mile
The City does not own or operate any of its own drinking water sources. All of the City’s drinking
water supply is purchased from JVWCD. The City’s contract to secure water from JVWCD is set
forth in a formal Water Purchase Agreement. The agreement establishes a fixed annual volume
and unit price. The City pays for 100% of the volume whether it is used or not. As a contingency,
the agreement also allows the City to use up to 120% of the contract volume (i.e., 20% more) at
the same unit price. Beyond 120%, the unit price doubles. The City plans to rely completely on
JVWCD for future water supply.

Starting in 2021, JVWCD has new policies affecting wholesale contracts pertaining to contract
volumes, water conservation practices, and land use policies (see Appendix B). JVWCD is
encouraging its member agencies to adopt its Water Efficiency Standards to reduce water
demand from new developments and has created a new price structure for wholesale water based
on being “existing” or “new” water. When consumption goes beyond 120% of the contract volume,
it is considered “new” water and the more expensive rate will apply.

Ideally, actual water use would fall between 100% and 120% of the contract volume so as to
maximize the purchase without incurring the steeper prices for excessive use. The agreement is
updated every few years as the City’s needs for water change. In 2021, the contract volume is
expected to be 3,300 ac-ft/yr.

SUPPLY

Previous, current, and projected water supply is shown in Table 2-2.

                        Table 2-2: Summary of Bluffdale City Water Sources
       Year            Actual Delivery (ac-ft)   Contract (ac-ft)      Contract + 20% (ac-ft)
      2015                     2,074                   1,710                    2,052
      2016                     2,496                   1,710                    2,052
      2017                     2,374                   1,710                    2,052
      2018                     2,894                   2,300                    2,760
      2019                     2,908                   2,400                    2,880
      2020                     3,732                   2,500                    3,000
      2021*                    3,500                   3,200                    4,000
      2022*                    4,000                   3,424                    4,280
      2023*                    4,500                   3,760                    4,700
* Projected amounts.

The City has nine connections from JVWCD. A list of the connections is presented in Table 2-3.




Bluffdale City                                   2-2           2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
                             Table 2-3: Summary of JVWCD Connections
                                        Flow
                       Pressure
   Meter Station                     Capacity 1    Status                      Notes
                         Zone
                                       (gpm)
 15000 S. 1000 W.          1E            450       Active
  (Coyote Gulch /
    Westgate)
 14600 S. 850 W.           1E            450       Active
 15050 S. 3200 W.       1W (via         Not yet    Active
  (Triangle Tank        Triangle       included
       Meter)            Tank)
 14400 S. 3200 W.          1W            400       Standby   Connection is closed to favor Triangle
                                                             Tank. Do not open without first isolating
                                                             the tank. If opened, pressure may
                                                             overpower the tank.
     14900 S.              1W            300       Standby   Connection is closed to favor Triangle
   Redwood Rd.                                               Tank. Do not open without first isolating
                                                             the tank. If opened, pressure may
                                                             overpower the tank.
  14600 S. Pony         Bluffdale        450       Active    Comes at slightly higher pressure (from
   Express Rd.          Heights                              Metro). Supplies Bluffdale Heights Zone.
                                                             Valve in Regent Garden Lane must
                                                             remain closed.
 15100 S. 3200 W.          2W            300       Active    Limited capacity; pumped by JVWCD
    (Pumped)                                                 before delivery to Bluffdale. Check Iron
                                                             Horse and River View PRV settings to
                                                             reduce unnecessary demand on this
                                                             connection.
     15000 S.             3 (via         780       Active
   Redwood Rd.             PS)
  (Camp Williams
   Pump Station)
  1260 W. Jordan          3 (via         450       Active
    Narrows Rd.            PS)
 (Jordan Narrows
   Pump Station)
       Total 2                          3,580
1. Maximum average flow rate over 24 hr.
2. Based on 2020 contract volume of 2,500 ac-ft.

WATER MEASUREMENT

Every water system loses some water or at least cannot account for the fate of all water produced.
Mechanisms for water loss include leaks, breaks, hydrant flushing, construction water, waste
pumping, and unmetered uses. According to the EPA (2017), water loss in public water systems
averages 16%; some Utah systems have identified losses of 30% or more. Lost water is also lost
Bluffdale City                                      2-3          2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
energy and lost revenue, so preventing and mitigating water loss should be a priority if losses are
excessive.

In Bluffdale, water loss is less than 10%, as shown in Table 2-5. This means that the City was
able to bill for almost all of the water it provided. Though there is room for improvement, a 10%
loss is better than the national average of 16% and better than many Utah systems. In Bluffdale,
the only unmetered uses of potable water are those associated with fire hydrants. The Public
Works Department also attributes the low water loss to standard design, construction, and
inspection procedures for new pipes and connections. Aged pipes will be replaced in coming
years to further reduce water loss.

Water meters are critical to track water use and incentivize conservation. In Bluffdale, meters are
read once a month. Percent of metered connections by type are summarized in Table 2-4.

Table 2-5 compares the water produced by the City’s drinking water sources to the metered water
delivered to users from 2010 to present. Based on discussions with City staff, possible
explanations for the unaccounted water use include leaks in the distribution system and meter
inaccuracies. If high water usage is discovered, then the City investigates.

          Table 2-4: Bluffdale City Percent Metered Connections by Type of Use
                                             Percent Water Use
        Year
                      Residential      Commercial      Industrial    Institutional/Other
        2010              63.2%               9.5%              0.0%                27.4%
        2011              75.8%              12.2%              0.0%                12.0%
        2012              48.3%              10.0%              0.0%                41.7%
        2013              58.6%               8.4%              0.0%                33.0%
        2014              65.9%               9.4%              0.0%                24.7%
        2015              73.9%               8.7%              0.0%                17.4%
        2016              76.6%               7.0%              0.0%                16.4%
        2017              85.6%               6.0%              0.0%                 8.4%
        2018              77.5%               4.6%              0.0%                18.0%
        2019              71.4%               5.7%              0.0%                22.9%

Figure 2-2 below shows the percentage difference of metered connection types in the form of a
graph using the information found in Table 2-4 above.




Bluffdale City                                 2-4            2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
                           100.0%
                           90.0%
                           80.0%
   % Metered Connections



                           70.0%
                           60.0%
                           50.0%
                           40.0%
                           30.0%
                           20.0%
                           10.0%
                            0.0%
                                    2010   2011      2012       2013   2014   2015       2016       2017   2018       2019

                                                  Residential    Commercial   Institutional/Other

                               Figure 2-2: Bluffdale City Percent Metered Connections by Type of Use



                                 Table 2-5: Comparison of Water Produced to Metered Water Use
                                            Total Metered          Total Source        Percent of Water
                            Year
                                              Use (ac-ft)        Production (ac-ft)    Unaccounted For
                            2010                  1,862.68                    1,622.44                            *
                            2011                  1,392.55                    1,512.60                      7.94%
                            2012                  2,521.70                    1,512.60                            *
                            2013                  2,078.50                    1,776.80                            *
                            2014                  4,872.96                    2,038.40                      4.50%
                            2015                  1,911.56                    2,073.52                      7.81%
                            2016                  2,413.13                    2,601.90                      7.26%
                            2017                  2,281.98                    2,480.44                      8.00%
                            2018                  2,721.84                    2,893.67                      5.94%
                            2019                  2,781.99                    2,907.68                      4.32%
* Note: Removed due to inaccuracies in the reporting.

Figure 2-3 below shows the comparison of metered use vs. water produced in the form of a
graph using the information found in Table 2-5 above.




Bluffdale City                                                         2-5           2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
              3,500.00

              3,000.00

              2,500.00
  Acre-Feet




              2,000.00

              1,500.00

              1,000.00

               500.00

                  0.00
                           2010   2011       2012    2013     2014     2015      2016    2017    2018     2019
                                                                   Year

                                         Total Metered Use     Total Source Production

                         Figure 2-3: Comparison of Water Produced to Metered Water Use

BILLING

Current Water Rate Structure

The City’s drinking water rate structure is summarized in Table 2-6. The City adopted a tiered
water rate structure about eight years ago to encourage water conservation and comply with the
Division of Drinking Water’s requirements. This program lets homeowners know whether or not
they are using too much water by penalizing high water users with higher fees. The water rate
structure was adjusted last year. Secondary water from the City is being metered, but there
currently is no tiered rate for secondary water. Secondary is currently priced at $0.90 per 1,000
gallons. The City has said that the tiered rates have been successful and have encouraged less
water use.

                                         Table 2-6: 2019 Water Rate Structure
                                         Water Tiers                                     Price
                 Monthly Base Water Fee (Residential)                           $12.00
                 Monthly Base Water Fee (Commercial)                            $30.00
                 Tier 1 (0–10,000 gallons)                                      $2.50 per 1,000 gallons
                 Tier 2 (10,001–50,000 gallons)                                 $3.00 per 1,000 gallons
                 Tier 3 (50,001–100,000 gallons)                                $3.85 per 1,000 gallons
                 Tier 4 (100,001 gallons and above)                             $4.55 per 1,000 gallons

WATER USE

Bluffdale has replaced all old water meters with new, continuous-read water meters. The City has
also established a fixed-network meter-reading system and bills its users monthly. All delivered
potable water is metered. The City requires water meters for all new active secondary water
connections. Fire hydrants are not metered.

Historical water supplied by the City’s drinking water sources is summarized in Table 2-7.

Bluffdale City                                               2-6              2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
                                    Table 2-7: Bluffdale City Historical Water Supply Summary
                                                                 Total Source Supplied (ac-ft)
                                            Year
                                                                       JVWCD Purchases
                                            2000                           1,172.21
                                            2001                           1,227.13
                                            2002                           1,086.00
                                            2003                           1,149.00
                                            2004                           1,245.11
                                            2005                           1,231.00
                                            2006                           1,488.24
                                            2007                           1,692.96
                                            2008                           1,429.20
                                            2009                           7,090.08
                                            2010                           1,622.44
                                            2011                           1,512.60
                                            2012                           1,512.60
                                            2013                           1,776.80
                                            2014                           2,038.40
                                            2015                           2,073.52
                                            2016                           2,495.50
                                            2017                           2,374.03
                                            2018                           2,893.67
                                            2019                           2,907.68

Figure 2-4 charts the City’s historical water supply from 2010 to 2019.

                         3,500.00

                         3,000.00
  Water Supply (ac-ft)




                         2,500.00

                         2,000.00

                         1,500.00

                         1,000.00

                          500.00

                             0.00
                                    2010   2011    2012   2013    2014    2015      2016   2017    2018    2019

                                                           JVWCD Purchases

                                    Figure 2-4: Bluffdale City Historical Water Supply Summary




Bluffdale City                                                   2-7             2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
Water use data from 2019 was evaluated to determine indoor versus outdoor use. Indoor use can
be estimated by determining the average use during winter months. Any use above this amount
during other times of the year is assumed to be outdoor watering. The only monthly data available
to estimate indoor use was monthly source data. There is no monthly data available to determine
indoor versus outdoor use by type. Therefore, typical water use percentages were used to
determine average indoor and outdoor use by type. Annual water use converted to average daily
use divided by population provides the per capita water use, or gallons per capita-day (gpcd). The
2019 per capita water use is shown in Table 2-8.

                                                                    Table 2-8: 2019 Per Capita Water Use by Type
                                                                                                Indoor Use
                                                                                                                                          Outdoor Use                                      Total
                                                             Type                              (Winter Use)
                                                                                                                                            (gpcd)                                        (gpcd)
                                                                                                  (gpcd)
                                                      Residential                                        45*                                           69*                                   113
                                                      Commercial                                             8*                                         1*                                       9
                                                      Institutional                                      33*                                            4*                                       36
                                                        Industrial                                           0                                           0                                       0
                                                             Total                                           68                                         91                                   159
                                                 * Typical residential water use for arid regions is about 40% indoor use and 60%
                                                   outdoor. Typical commercial and institutional water use is about 90% indoor use and
                                                   10% outdoor.


Annual per capita use was calculated from 2000 to present using data reported to the Utah
Division of Water Rights. Figure 2-5 shows that the City has an overall decreasing trend from
around 260 gpcd in 2000 to less than 160 gpcd in 2019 which is now below the regional water
conservation goal established by the Division of Water Resources for the Salt Lake region.

                          300

                          250
  Per Capita Use (gpcd)




                          200

                          150

                          100

                           50

                            0
                                2000
                                       2001
                                              2002
                                                     2003
                                                            2004
                                                                   2005
                                                                          2006
                                                                                 2007
                                                                                        2008
                                                                                               2009
                                                                                                      2010
                                                                                                             2011
                                                                                                                    2012
                                                                                                                           2013
                                                                                                                                  2014
                                                                                                                                         2015
                                                                                                                                                2016
                                                                                                                                                       2017
                                                                                                                                                              2018
                                                                                                                                                                     2019
                                                                                                                                                                            2020
                                                                                                                                                                                   2021
                                                                                                                                                                                          2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2027
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2028
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2029
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2030




                                                             Annual per capita use (gpcd)                                                                      Regional Goal

                                                                      Figure 2-5: Historical Per-Capita Water Use




Bluffdale City                                                                                                               2-8                                2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
A comparison between reliable supply, current and projected water use, and efficient use is
presented on Figure 2-6. Future water use was projected by using the ERC and demand per ERC
given from water rights website and projected buildout ERC values from the 2019 Drinking Water
Master Plan. The reliable supply is based on the current annual contract with JVWCD with an
estimated contract growth of 250 ac-ft per year until buildout in 2050. JVWCD’s water contract is
expected to increase as demand increases to make sure there is enough supply. The regional
efficient use curve begins with its 2015 water use per capita. The efficient use shows the 11%
reduction goal in the 2015 regional water use by 2030, resulting in a reduction goal of 210 to 187
gpcd (HAL and BCA, 2019). As shown on Figure 2-6, the City’s projected reliable supply will be
negotiated and stay larger than consumption. Since 2015, the City has also been under the 11%
reduction goal but is not projected to stay below the goal in the future. The City’s policy for new
developments is to have a working pressurized irrigation system, which would bring down drinking
water use in the future. Incorporating the Jordan Valley Water Efficiency Standards with new
construction landscaping will also bring down water use. As shown in Figure 2-6, with the
projected population growth from now until 2050 Bluffdale City will need to cut back on water use
to be able to accommodate the projected growth, which is projected at about 58% from 2019 to
2050.

                   14,000


                   12,000


                   10,000
  Volume (ac-ft)




                    8,000


                    6,000


                    4,000


                    2,000


                       0
                        2000   2005   2010    2015     2020         2025       2030     2035      2040   2045   2050

                                         Actual Water Use                  Reliable Supply
                                         Regional Efficient Use            Water Use Projection

                                      Figure 2-6: Future Water Use Comparison

After reaching conservation targets, if future demands exceed the existing water supply the City
plans to meet these demands through additional wholesale purchase from Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District.




Bluffdale City                                                2-9                 2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
CHAPTER 3 – CONSERVATION ISSUES AND GOALS


IDENTIFIED PROBLEMS

The City is concerned with the potential waste of water from inefficient indoor/outdoor water use
and from system wide losses. The following specific concerns have been identified by the City:

    •   Water loss from line breaks or leaks in the system
    •   Unmetered water use from hydrants
    •   Illegal unmetered connections (theft)
    •   Unmetered water use from aging meters
    •   Water loss from leaks on the customer’s side of the meter

GOALS

Based on Utah’s Regional M&I Water Conservation Goals report (HAL and BCA, 2019), the
regional water conservation goal for the Salt Lake Region is an 11% reduction from the 2015
baseline by 2030. The 2015 baseline was established as 210 gpcd resulting in a goal of 187 gpcd
by 2030. Bluffdale City is already below the regional goal, and therefore, we propose the City’s
goal to also be an 11% reduction from 2015 to 2030, following the same trajectory as the regional
goal. The City was at 171 gpcd in 2015. So, for 2030 the City’s goal is to be at 152 gpcd. The
City’s main goal of reaching 152 gpcd by the year 2030 can be attained by adhering to the goals
found in Tables 4-1 and 4-2.




Bluffdale City                                3-1            2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
CHAPTER 4 – CONSERVATION MEASURES &
IMPLEMENTATION


The City believes that water conservation is an important strategy in its water management
portfolio, now and in the future. City staff are aware of the conservation goals and work together
to reach them. Water conservation efforts are combined and coordinated by both the Engineering
Department and the Public Works Department. The engineering department oversees design
standards, rates, and development, while the public works department oversees parks, metering,
and water distribution.

 Michael Fazio                                      Shane Paddock
 City Engineer                                      Public Works Director
 801-254-2200                                       801-254-2200


The City shall devote part of at least one regular meeting every five years of its governing body
to a discussion and formal adoption of the water conservation plan, and allow public comment on
it. Upon adoption, meeting minutes will be added as an appendix and the plan will be made
available to the public and to the media.

EXISTING CONSERVATION MEASURES

Table 4-1 identifies water conservation measures that are currently being implemented by the
City. The measures will continue to be implemented according to the plan indicated in Table 4-1.
It is believed that existing conservation measures and public education programs are working
based on the continued decline of water use rates seen since 2000.

                        Table 4-1: Existing Conservation Measures
           Conservation Measure                        Implementation Plan
 Require rock mulch instead of turf for small   The design is included in development standards and
 storm drain ponds.                             plan reviews.
 Require construction water users to use a      The City has about 35 portable meters ready to use.
 meter.                                         Contractors must register and check out a meter
                                                before construction.
 Eliminate errors found when collecting         The data are stored on the water department’s
 customer meter reads.                          computers and are reviewed for accuracy, comparing
                                                with JVWCD source flows and other SCADA
                                                information.
 Implement tiered rates for drinking water.     The City reevaluates tiered rates, based on
                                                consumption, every three years when JVWCD Water
                                                Purchase Agreement is renewed.
 Maintain a water conservation garden.          The City has a public water conservation garden with
                                                educational signage and water-efficient plants.
 Investigate abnormally high water use.         Whenever metered water data indicates unusually
                                                high water use, the City contacts the water user to
                                                check for leaks and discuss water use habits.



Bluffdale City                                   4-1             2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
           Conservation Measure                                Implementation Plan
 Practice good stormwater management and       The City incorporates low impact development (LID)
 LID.                                          that results in the infiltration and use of stormwater to
                                               protect water quality.
 Send out water conservation tips with water   Conservation mailers are sent out on a regular basis
 bills.                                        to City customers as well.
 Host a water conservation booth at Old West   The City sets up a water conservation booth at the
 Days.                                         annual Old West Days City Festival where residents
                                               can discuss water conservation with City staff and
                                               received handouts with water conservation tips.
 Leverage social media to promote efficient    Provide water conservation reminders,
 water use.                                    announcements, and helpful links through the City
                                               website and social media channels.
 Take advantage of JVWCD classes and other     The City encourages residents to participate
 offered resources.                            JVWCD’s landscaping classes and other sponsored
                                               resources.
 Meter water use at City parks.                Some parks are currently metered, and the
                                               consumption is reviewed regularly by City staff.
 Reuse water from the Utah Data Center.        The water used to cool the data center is discharged
                                               to a 2 MG tank, blended with drinking water, reused
                                               as irrigation water for the main City park.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s Conservation        JVWCD offers landscaping classes that focus on
 Garden Park.                                  water conservation principles for residential and
                                               commercial water users.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s rebates for         JVWCD offers rebates to residential, commercial, and
 smart irrigation controllers and toilets.     institutional water users within its jurisdiction who
                                               replace old systems with smart irrigation controllers
                                               and/or toilets.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s park strip          JVWCD offers rebates to residential, commercial, and
 replacement rebates.                          institutional water users within its jurisdiction who “flip”
                                               their park strip to be more water efficient.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s Localscapes         Residents who want to renovate or install a landscape
 Rewards.                                      may qualify for cash rewards and a free review of
                                               their landscape plan.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s landscaping         JVWCD provides landscaping consultation to educate
 assistance.                                   the public of how to conserve water while designing
                                               their landscapes.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s Landscape           JVWCD offers grants to businesses, institutions,
 Leadership Grants.                            builders, developers, and HOAs with large
                                               landscaping projects that have potential for significant
                                               water savings.
 Develop drought response actions.             In conjunction with JVWCD, the City prepared
                                               response actions to execute during severe drought
                                               conditions, such as restricting outdoor water use.




Bluffdale City                                  4-2              2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
PROPOSED CONSERVATION MEASURES

Table 4-2 identifies water conservation measures that are proposed to be implemented by the
City in the future. The City plans to continue the measures described in Table 4-1. Therefore, they
have been included below with additional proposed measures to be implemented in the future.


                       Table 4-2: Proposed Conservation Measures
             Conservation Measure                      Implementation Plan
 Establish standards for new landscape               Adopt the JVWCD Water Efficiency Standards
 construction (or reconstruction).                   and enforce the corresponding water-efficient
                                                     landscaping requirements with new construction.
 Create a Water Efficient Landscaping Ordinance.     As a complement to the JVWCD Water Efficiency
                                                     Standards (which focus on new construction), the
                                                     Water-Efficient Landscaping Ordinance would
                                                     recommend water users to incorporate some sort
                                                     of xeriscaping in their landscaping to be more
                                                     water efficient.
 Improve accuracy of the City’s water use            Continue to compare customer end use with
 reporting.                                          incoming JVWCD source flows and intra-system
                                                     flows (pump stations and PRVs) to close the
                                                     mass balance.
 Regularly analyze water usage to search for         Prepare a map to view where the highest water
 regular extreme water users in Bluffdale.           users are and where leaks occur. Analyze the
                                                     data regularly, such as on an annual basis (e.g.,
                                                     July for peak water use). Update the database
                                                     with information such as leaks per customer, etc.
 Meter all city parks to analyze consumption and     Budget for and install meters at remaining
 control water waste.                                unmetered parks and integrate data streams with
                                                     other water use analysis.
 Reduce turf area at City parks.                     Use less grass. Replace areas of unused turf
                                                     (e.g., between parking lots and sidewalks),
                                                     especially small areas that are difficult to irrigate
                                                     efficiently, with rock mulch or xeriscaping. Refer
                                                     to JVWCD Water Efficiency Standards.
 Optimize irrigation of City parks.                  Optimize water use at existing parks. Consider
                                                     new timing, moisture sensors, fertilizers, etc.
 Create an ongoing pipe replacement program.         Budget each year to replace older pipes in the
                                                     distribution system (perhaps 5% per year).
 Create a Low-Flow Plumbing Fixtures Ordinance.      Adopt an ordinance to encourage, or even
                                                     require, fixtures with flow rates lower than the
                                                     current plumbing code or EPA WaterSense
                                                     standards.




Bluffdale City                                     4-3             2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
DROUGHT RESPONSE ACTIONS

Bluffdale is participating in JVWCD’s Drought Monitoring Committee, which meets every spring
to recommend a drought level that will guide water use decisions for the year. JVWCD’s drought
conditions are defined as:
     Normal – At least 95% allocation available from Jordanelle system; at least 80% allocation
        available from Provo River system; local groundwater diversions below safe yield.
     Moderate – At least 95% allocation available from Jordanelle system; at least 75%
        allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield.
     Severe – At least 90% allocation available from Jordanelle system; at least 75% allocation
        available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield.
     Extreme – At least 90% allocation available from Jordanelle system; less than 75%
        allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield.
     Critical – Less than 90% allocation available from Jordanelle system; less than 45%
        allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield.

Table 4-3 identifies an action plan that the City is exploring for use in the case of a drought or
other water shortage.

                            Table 4-3: Water Conservation Action Plan
                                                            Parks and                           Water for
   Water Year                             Residential      Recreational                       Industrial and
                       Indoor Water
    Supply                              Outdoor Water        Facilities                        Agricultural
                                                             Watering                              Use
  Normal             Water                   Water conservation         Water                Water
                     conservation            encouraged*.               conservation         conservation
                     encouraged*.                                       encouraged*.         encouraged*.
  Moderate           Household water         Recommended:               Water grassed        Recommend
  drought            conservation            Grass watering             areas three times    irrigating fields
                     plan**.                 every other day. No        a week. Reduce       twice a week.
                                             watering during the        water to trees. No
                                             day**.                     watering during
                                                                        the day.
  Severe             Household water         Recommended:               Water grassed        Recommend:
  drought            conservation            water grassed areas        areas once a         irrigating fields
                     plan**. Apply           watered twice a            week. Reduce         once a week. No
                     drought water           week. Apply                water to trees.      car washing.
                     rates level 1.          drought water
                                             rates level 1.
  Extreme            Apply drought           Recommended:               No watering of       Recommend:
  drought            water rate level        water grassed areas        grassed areas.       limiting irrigation.
                     2.                      once a week. Apply         Reduce tree          No car washing.
                                             drought water rate         watering to once a
                                             level 2.                   week.
  Critical           Apply drought           Recommend: cease           Cease irrigation.    Recommend:
  drought            water rate level        any outdoor                                     Cease irrigation.
                     3.                      irrigation. Apply                               No car washing.
                                             drought water rate
                                             level 3.
* Conservation in normal years allows for increased reservoir storage in future years.
** Recommended water use conservation practices (see below).




Bluffdale City                                           4-4               2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
Recommended conservation practices include the following:

       Check toilets for leaks.
       Take shorter showers.
       Install water-saving shower heads or flow restrictors.
       Turn off water while brushing your teeth.
       Turn off water while shaving.
       Check faucets and pipes for water leaks.
       Use your automatic dishwasher for full loads only.
       Use automatic washing machine for full loads only.
       Do not let the water run while washing vegetables.
       Keep a bottle of drinking water in the refrigerator.
       Use broom to clean driveways.




Bluffdale City                                  4-5              2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
REFERENCES

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 2017. Water Audits and Water Loss Control for Public
       Water     Systems.      5/13/21.    <https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2015-
       04/documents/epa816f13002.pdf>

Hansen, Allen & Luce, Inc. (HAL) and Bowen Collins & Associates (BCA). 2019. Utah’s Regional
      M&I Water Conservation Goals. Utah Department of Natural Resources.

Hansen, Allen & Luce, Inc. (HAL). 2019. Bluffdale 2019 Drinking Water Master Plan.

Utah Division of Administrative Rules. 2019. Utah Administrative Code, Definitions – Water
      Conservation Plan Required 73-10-32. The Department of Administrative Services.

Utah Division of Water Rights. 2019. Public Water Supplier Information. 4/19/21.
     <https://waterrights.utah.gov/asp_apps/viewEditPWS/pwsView.asp?SYSTEM_ID=1264h
     ttps://waterrights.utah.gov/asp_apps/viewEditPWS/pwsView.asp?SYSTEM_ID=1001>




Bluffdale City                               R-1           2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
                 APPENDIX A
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL ADOPTION
   OF WATER CONSERVATION PLAN
                                CITY OF BLUFF DALE, UTAH

                                RESOLUTION NO. 2022-08

A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE WATER CONSERVATION PLAN (2021 UPDATE).

WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale ("City") recogn izes that water is a valuable resource that
needs to be wisely managed;

WHEREAS by promoting a meaningful water conservation effort, the City will better
manage its water supply, reduce water waste, extend its water supply, and thereby delay
the need to purchase additional water supply and construct new infrastructure;

WHEREAS the City is a retail water provider to its citizens;

WHEREAS pursuant to Utah Code Ann.§ 73-10-32, the City of Bluffdale has adopted a Water
Conservation Plan and desires to amend such plan;

WHEREAS it is in the City's and its customers' best interest to adopt and implement an
updated water conservation plan;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:



      Section 1.      Adoption.    The Water Conservation Plan (2021 Update) is hereby
adopted.

      Section 2.      Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon passage.

PASSED AND APPROVED: January 26, 2012.



                                                     CITY OF BLUFFDALE




 ATTEST:
Voting by the City Co uncil:    Yes   No   Absent

       Councilmember Aston      _X_ __
       Councilmember Crockett   _X_ __
       Councilmember Gaston     _X_ _ _
       Councilmember Hales      _X_ __
       Councilmember Ka ll as   _X____
            APPENDIX B
         SUMMARY OF JVWCD
WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
                             WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS

1.   Purpose
     The purpose of these Water Efficiency Standards is to conserve the public's water
     resources by establishing water conservation standards for indoor plumbing fixtures and
     outdoor landscaping.

2.   Applicability
     The following standards shall be required for all developer/contractor installed residential,
     commercial, institutional, and industrial construction, as applicable. The Outdoor
     Landscaping Standards shall also be required for new landscaping construction installed
     by homeowners.

3.   Indoor Fixture Requirements
     It is recommended and encouraged, but not mandated, that all new and future
     construction and future additions, remodels, or refurbishments install plumbing fixtures
     that have the WaterSense label, including: lavatory faucets, shower heads, sink faucets,
     water closets (tank and flushometer-valve toilets), and urinals, to the extent Utah law
     allows municipalities or local districts to require these fixtures.

4.   Outdoor Landscaping Standards
     All new and rehabilitated landscaping for public agency projects, private development
     projects, developer-installed landscaping in multi-family and single-family residential
     projects within the front and side yards, and homeowner provided landscape
     improvements within the front and side yards of single and two-family dwellings shall
     comply with the landscaping standards below:

     Definitions

     A. Activity Zones: Portions of the landscape designed for recreation or function, such as
        storage areas, fire pits, vegetable gardens, and playgrounds.

     B. Active Recreation Areas: Areas of the landscape dedicated to active play where Lawn
        may be used as the playing surface (ex. sports fields and play areas).

     C. Central Open Shape: An unobstructed area that functions as the focal point of
        Localscapes and is designed in a shape that is geometric in nature.

     D. Gathering Areas: Portions of the landscape that are dedicated to congregating, such
        as patios, gazebos, decks, and other seating areas.

     E. Hardscape: Durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, pavers, stone, or
        compacted inorganic mulch.

                                               1
     F. Lawn: Ground that is covered with grass or turf that is regularly mowed.

     G. Localscapes®: A landscaping approach designed to create locally adapted and
        sustainable landscapes through a basic 5-step approach (central open shape,
        gathering areas, activity zones, connecting pathways, and planting beds).

     H. Mulch: Any material such as rock, bark, compost, wood chips or other materials left
        loose and applied to the soil.

     I. Park Strip: A typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb and
        sidewalk.

     J. Paths: Designed routes between landscape areas and features.

     K. Planting Bed: Areas of the landscape that consist of plants, such as trees, ornamental
        grasses, shrubs, perennials, and other regionally appropriate plants.

     L. Total Landscaped Area: Improved areas of the property that incorporate all of the
        completed features of the landscape. The landscape area does not include footprints
        of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways, and other non-irrigated areas
        intentionally left undeveloped.

5.   Landscaping Requirements

     A. All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the
        highest water efficiency. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used except in Lawn areas.
        Drip irrigation systems shall be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-end
        assembly, and any other appropriate components.

     B. Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope and soil
        conditions, and plant materials with similar watering needs. Lawn and Planting Beds
        shall be irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers
        shall be placed on separate irrigation valves.

     C. Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense labeled smart irrigation
        controller which automatically adjusts the frequency and/or duration of irrigation
        events in response to changing weather conditions. All controllers shall be equipped
        with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.

     D. At least 3-4 inches of Mulch, permeable to air and water, shall be used in Planting
        Beds to control weeds and improve the appearance of the landscaping.

     E. At maturity, landscapes are recommended to have enough plant material (perennials
        and shrubs) to create at least 50% living plant cover at maturity at the ground plane,
        not including tree canopies.
                                               2
F. Lawn shall not be installed in Park Strips, Paths, or on slopes greater than 25% or 4:1
   grade, and be less than 8 feet wide at its narrowest point. To the extent reasonably
   practicable, Lawn shall be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes,
   etc.).

G. In residential landscapes, the landscaping shall adhere to the following Localscapes
   requirements:

      i.   If size permits, the landscaped areas of the front yard and back yard shall
           include a designed Central Open Shape created by using Lawn, Hardscape,
           groundcover, gravel, or Mulch.
      ii. Gathering Areas shall be constructed of Hardscape and placed outside of the
           Central Open Shape. In a landscape without Lawn, Gathering Areas may
           function as the Central Open Shape.
      iii. Activity Zones shall be located outside of the Central Open Shape and shall be
           surfaced with materials other than Lawn.
      iv. Paths shall be made with materials that do not include Lawn, such as
           Hardscape, Mulch, or other groundcover.
      v. Lawn areas shall not exceed the greater of 250 square feet, or 35% of the Total
           Landscaped Area.
      vi. Small residential lots, which have no back yards, which the Total Landscaped
           Area is less than 250 square feet, and which the front yard dimensions cannot
           accommodate the minimum 8 feet wide Lawn area requirement of the
           Landscaping Requirements in section F, are exempt from the 8 feet minimum
           width Lawn area requirement.

H. In commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-family development common area
   landscapes, Lawn areas shall not exceed 20% of the Total Landscaped Area, outside
   of Active Recreation Areas.

I. Certain special purpose landscape areas (e.g. stormwater management areas, etc.)
   may receive exceptions from the slope limitations and other elements of the
   Landscaping Requirements (see Paragraph F, above). Applications to receive
   exceptions are to be considered on a case-by-case basis.

J. These outdoor standards are not intended to be in conflict with other landscaping
   requirements as defined by Utah law, including stormwater retention requirements
   and low-impact development guidelines. Notwithstanding these outdoor standards,
   whenever any requirement may be in conflict with Utah law, such conflicting
   requirements shall not apply.



                                        3
                                                                                                                               2/22/2021




          Water Efficiency
          Standards and
          Wholesale Policy
          Summary of the water efficiency standards and recent policy
          changes approved by JVWCD’s Board of Trustees




12




                                 1. Tax Increment Financing
     Strategies to                     As a condition of all tax increment financing requests, the projects must adopt
                                        the water efficiency standards.
     Encourage
                                 2. Annexation Petitions
     Adoption of Water                 As a condition of annexation, the new lands must conform to the water
     Efficiency                         efficiency standards.
     Standards                         Any water consumed in these lands will also be charged a higher Block 2
                                        wholesale rate.

                                 3. Water Fees and Charges
                                       New water purchase agreements which increase the minimum purchase
                                        amount, are subject to the Member Agency implementing the water efficiency
                                        standards (applicable to all new construction).
                                       Beginning January 1, 2021, water taken in excess of 120% of minimum
                                        purchase contract amount will be charged at a higher Block 2 wholesale rate.



                                                                                                                          13



13




                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                         2/22/2021




                                               System Component                 Block 1             Block 2
                                     Water Supply                                    $161.61              $760.00
                                     Water Treatment                                   $88.88                      n/a
                                     Transmission
                                                                                     $175.69              $175.69
     Block Rate                      (includes storage and pumping)
                                     Distribution                                      $12.60              $12.60
     Comparison                      Capital                                           $73.69              $73.69
     Source: HDR Engineering
     2020 Rate Study Update          Conservation                                       $9.87                 $9.87
                                     Other                                              $6.80                 $6.80
                                     Average non-pumped rate (per AF)                $529.14           $1,038.65
                                     Notes:
                                     a) Block 2 is based on the most recently developed supply (Central Water
                                        Project)




14




                               Indoor water efficiency standards




                                                                              It is recommended but not
                                                                              mandated that all indoor
                                                                              plumbing fixtures (e.g. toilets,
                                                                              urinals, showerheads, and
                                                                              faucets) be WaterSense
                                                                              labeled.




                                                                                                              15



15




                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                    2/22/2021




     Residential
     Landscape
     Standards
      Applicable to front and side
       yards.
      Lawn is a designed as an open
       space and does not exceed 35%
       of the total landscaped area.
      Prohibit lawn in park strips and
       other narrow areas that are less
       than 8 feet wide.
      Drip irrigation is used in planting
       beds.
      Exceptions to these standards can
       be made in very small lot
       scenarios.


                                                                               16



16




                                  Commercial Landscape Standards

       • Outside of active recreation areas, keep lawn to 20% of the
         total landscaped area.
       • Prohibit lawn in park strips, parking lot islands, or other
         narrow areas that are less than 8 feet wide.
       • Keep lawn areas free of obstructions such as trees, signposts,
         and boulders; and avoid use on steep slopes.
       • Drip irrigation is used in planting beds.
       • Recommended to have enough plant materials to create at
         least 50% living plant cover at maturity.
       • Submit new landscape projects to the municipality to ensure
         they meet water conservation requirements and guidelines.
       • Certain special purpose landscape areas may receive variances
         to the standards based on need (ex. stormwater management
         areas)




                                                                          17



17




                                                                                           3
             APPENDIX C
          CITY OF BLUFFDALE
CODE ON WATER CONSERVATION
8.10.160 Scarcity Of Water

In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the mayor and the governing
body be necessary, the mayor shall by proclamation limit the use of water to such extent as may
be necessary. It shall be unlawful for any person, his family, servants or agents to violate any
proclamation made by the mayor in pursuance of this chapter. (Ord. 5-27-80-1, 5-27-1980, eff.
5-28-1980)

8.10.170 Excessive Use Of Sprinklers

   1. Effect On City Water System: It shall be unlawful for any person to use such number of
      outlets simultaneously or to use such sprinkler or combinations of sprinkler or outlets as
      will in the opinion of the governing body materially affect the pressure or supply of water
      in the city water system or any part thereof, and the governing body may from time to
      time, by resolution, specify combinations or numbers of outlets which may have such
      effect.
   2. Order To Discontinue: The governing body shall, after determining that such improper
      use exists, notify the affected water user or the owner of the premises whereon such use
      occurs of such determination in writing, order such use discontinued and advise that such
      continued usage constitutes a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 5-27-80-1, 5-27-1980, eff. 5-
      28-1980)

8.10.180 Waste Of Water

   1. Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any water user to:
          1. Waste water.
          2. Allow it to be wasted by stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or pipes, or to allow
              tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow.
          3. Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets or stops, or through basins, water
              closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus.
          4. Use the water for purposes other than for those which he has applied, or to use
              water in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the water supply.
   2. Refer To Governing Body: Users of water from the city water system shall not permit
      water to continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to conserve water. If, in the
      judgment of the water superintendent or any of the officers of the city, a user of city
      water engages in practices which result in the needless waste of water and continues to do
      so after reasonable notice to discontinue wastefulness has been given, the water
      superintendent or any officer may refer the matter to the governing body.
   3. Termination Of Service; Meeting: The governing body may thereupon consider
      terminating the right of the individual to use culinary water. If it elects to consider the
      matter of termination, it shall give notice to the water user of the intention to terminate
      his water connection at least five (5) days prior to the meeting of the governing body at
      which termination of water service is to be considered. The notice shall inform him of the
      time and place of the meeting of and the charges which lead to the consideration of the
      termination.
   4. Appearance By Water User: A water user whose right to utilize city water is being
      reviewed shall have opportunity to appear with or without counsel and present the
      reasons why his water service should not be discontinued.
   5. Determination: After due hearing, the governing body may arrive at a determination. If
      the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user's service connection, the
      governing body shall notify him of the decision and of the period during which the
      service will remain discontinued. (Ord. 5-27-80-1, 5-27-1980, eff. 5-28-1980)

8.10.210 Irrigation Water

   1. Running Upon Public Streets; Penalty: It shall be unlawful and a violation of this
      subsection for any person who owns, leases or otherwise has control of irrigation waters
      within the city limits to allow said waters to flow or run upon the public streets of the
      city. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor
      and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. Each
      day during or on which a violation of this section occurs or continues shall constitute a
      separate offense and shall be punishable as such as hereinabove described. (Ord. 6-8-82-
      3, 6-8-1982; amd. 2013 Code)
   2. Reckless Flooding; Penalty: A person is guilty of reckless flooding if he damages the
      property of another by reckless use of irrigation water. Reckless flooding is a class B
      misdemeanor if the damage to property exceeds five hundred dollars ($500.00) in value;
      and a class C misdemeanor if the damage to property exceeds fifty dollars ($50.00). Upon
      conviction of such violation, the violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
      1-4-1 of this code. Any other violation under this subsection shall constitute an infraction.
      (Ord. 7-12-88-2, 7-12-1988; amd. 2013 Code)

8.10.220 Nonliability For Damages

   1. The city shall not be held liable for any damage to a water service user by reason of
      stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by fire, scarcity of
      water, accidents to the water system or its mains, or which occurs as the result of
      maintenance and extension operations, or from any other avoidable cause. This chapter
      shall not be construed to extend the liability of the city beyond that provided in the
      governmental immunity act. (Ord. 5-27-80-1, 5-27-1980, eff. 5-28-1980)
                                     AR Y
                                  IN
                            City of Bluffdale
                                                                                      DETAIL SERIES:

                                                                 STANDARD DETAIL      LANDSCAPE

                    IM
                         Engineering Standards

                  L                                     WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING
              P RE
EST. 18 4 8   Approved                                                                DETAIL NO.

                                                                                            L-2
                          City Engineer          Date
                                                               WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE EXAMPLE




                              City of Bluffdale
                                                                                                   DETAIL SERIES:

                                                                    STANDARD DETAIL                LANDSCAPE
                           Engineering Standards
E ST. 1 8 4 8   Approved
                            City Engineer
                                               19 Jul 21
                                                    Date
                                                           WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING             DETAIL NO.

                                                                                                         L-2
                    BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




BLUFFDALE PARKS, TRAILS,
RECREATION & OPEN SPACE
MASTER PLAN




                           Appendices   viii
BLUFFDALE PARKS, TRAILS, RECREATION
         & OPEN SPACE MASTER PLAN
                                OCTOBER 2015
Page left intentionally blank.
                    ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Mayor & City Council
  Derk Timothy, Mayor
  Bruce Kartchner
  Alan Jackson
  Justin Westwood
  Ty Nielsen
  Heather Pehrson 		




Parks & Recreation Committee
  Tricia Albiston            Travis Higby
  Rick Bliss                 Lisa Jolio
  Jose Chavez                Andrew Jones
  Bud Dudley                 Amanda Luker
  Judy Dudley                Kory Luker
  Pam Farrell                Wayne Mortimer
  Annie Gatrell              Brian Neilson
  Matthew Good               Rich Pemberton
  Gary Hamblin               Dani Zarbock
  Tonya Hamblin




City Staff
  Mark Reid, City Manager
  Blain Dietrich, Public Works Manager
  Grant Crowell, City Planner / Economic Development Director
  Alan Peters, Associate Planner
  Jennifer Robison, Associate Planner



Consultant Team
                            Steve Duh, CPRP, Principal-in-Charge
                            Jean Akers, RLA, AICP, Sr. Associate
                            Michelle Kunec-North, Associate

                            Scott Peters, PLA, ASLA
                            Nate Ferguson, PLA, ASLA

                            Ron Vine
                            Rachael Beckett

                                                          Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   
     Page left intentionally blank.




ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS

 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.......................................................... v

 CHAPTER 1: Introduction & Plan Framework ............................ 1

 CHAPTER 2: Community Profile . .............................................. 9

 CHAPTER 3: Community Engagement ..................................... 15

 CHAPTER 4: Inventory & Classifications ................................. 19

 CHAPTER 5: Goals & Objectives ............................................. 49

 CHAPTER 6: Needs Assessment ............................................... 55

 CHAPTER 7: Capital Facilities Plan ......................................... 79

 CHAPTER 8: Implementation Strategies ................................... 89

 APPENDICES ........................................................................ 99




    Adopted by Bluffdale City Council on October 28, 2015




                                  Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   iii
iv
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This Parks, Trails, Recreation and Open Space (PTROS) Plan is a five-
year guide and strategic plan for managing and enhancing park, trail
and recreation opportunities in Bluffdale. It establishes a path forward
for providing high quality, community-driven parks, trails, open spaces
and recreational opportunities. The Plan provides a vision for the City’s
park and recreation system, outlines park and facility classifications
and addresses citywide goals, objectives and other management
considerations toward the continuation of high-quality recreation
opportunities to benefit residents of Bluffdale.
This Plan was guided with input and direction of city residents and the
Parks and Recreation Committee. The Plan inventories and evaluates
existing park and recreation areas, assesses the needs for acquisition,
site development and operations and offers specific policies and
recommendations to achieve the community’s goals.



Bluffdale’s Park & Recreation System
Bluffdale provides and maintains a growing system of parks that supports
a range of active and passive experiences. The City provides nearly 60
acres of public parkland and recreation facilities distributed among 9
park sites and numerous open space parcels. City-provided athletic
fields are available at City Park and Parry Farms, which include one
large soccer field and two softball/baseball fields. Bluffdale also provides
a centrally-located equestrian arena at the west end of City Park. In
addition, there are approximately 16 miles of trails within the City,
which include the Jordan River Parkway Trail and several pedestrian and
equestrian routes.
The City does not currently offer recreation programs, although
organized sports are provided by private youth leagues, and the Jordan
School District offers some additional recreation programming for youth.
City residents also have access to Salt Lake County recreational facilities
within close proximity.
Bluffdale is a rapidly growing community with many families and
children. As the City grows, new investments in parks and recreation
will be necessary to meet the needs of the community, support youth
development, provide options for residents to lead healthy active lives
and foster greater social and community connections.

                                                            Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   
Goals & Policies
This Plan includes goals and objectives intended to guide City decision-making to ensure the parks and
recreation system meets the needs of the Bluffdale community for years to come. These goals and objectives
were based on community input and technical analysis. They include:
     ■     Community Involvement & Information: Encourage and support public involvement in park and
           recreation issues.
     ■     Parks & Open Space: Acquire and develop a high-quality, diversified system of parks, recreation
           facilities and open spaces that provides equitable access to all residents.
     ■     Trails: Develop a network of shared-use trails and corridors to enable connectivity between parks,
           neighborhoods and public amenities.
     ■     Recreation Programming: Facilitate and promote a varied and inclusive suite of recreation programs
           that accommodate a spectrum of ages, interests and abilities.
     ■     Maintenance & Operations: Provide a parks and recreation system that is efficient to maintain
           and operate, provides a high level of user comfort, safety, and aesthetic quality, and protects capital
           investments.
     ■     Design: Provide high-quality care for play structures and surfaces and maintenance of trails, parks and
           recreation facilities throughout the City.
     ■     Administration & Management: Support and promote the Parks and Recreation Committee and the
           Department of Public Works to the community, stakeholders, partners and City Council.



Future Improvements
The City of Bluffdale is anticipated to grow to approximately 17,000 residents by 2030. Serving existing and
future residents will require improvements to existing parks and expansion of the park, trail and recreation
system. The Capital Facilities Plan proposes approximately $9.4 million of investment in acquisition,
development and renovation of the parks system over the next 5 years and identifies additional investment
priorities for the future.

  Figure ES1: Capital Facilities Plan Summary by Classification & Type

     Park Type                          Acquisition Development Renovation                                               Sum
         ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇWĂƌŬƐ               Ψϰ͕ϭϮϯ͕ϬϴϬ ΨϭϴϮ͕ϬϮϬ Ψϭϲ͕ϭϰϱ Ψϰ͕ϯϮϭ͕Ϯϰϱ
         EĞŝŐŚďŽƌŚŽŽĚWĂƌŬƐ            Ψϭ͕ϲϳϳ͕ϰϴϰ Ψϰϴϴ͕ϰϳϴ Ψϯϭ͕ϱϰϳ ΨϮ͕ϭϵϳ͕ϱϬϵ
         WŽĐŬĞƚWĂƌŬƐ                  ΨͲ ΨϳϬ͕ϱϯϳ Ψϳ͕Ϭϲϯ Ψϳϳ͕ϲϬϬ
         ^ƉĞĐŝĂůhƐĞWĂƌŬƐ                                     Ψϯϲ͕Ϯϯϲ Ψϳ͕ϲϭϳ Ψϰϯ͕ϴϱϯ
         dƌĂŝůƐ                        Ψϭ͕ϰϱϱ͕ϭϳϯ Ψϭ͕ϯϰϬ͕ϳϱϰ                                  ΨϮ͕ϳϵϱ͕ϵϮϳ
                              dKd> Ψϳ͕Ϯϱϱ͕ϳϯϲ ΨϮ͕ϭϭϴ͕ϬϮϱ ΨϲϮ͕ϯϳϮ Ψϵ͕ϰϯϲ͕ϭϯϯ


To ensure existing parks provide desired recreational amenities and opportunities, the Plan includes
investments in the development and improvement of neighborhood and community parks. For example,
the acquisition of at least one new community park will greatly expand park access and resources for the
community as a whole. The Plan also proposes smaller improvements throughout the park system to enhance
accessibility, safety and usability of park features.
The Plan includes a focused land acquisition program to ensure sufficient land for outdoor recreation as the

vi
City’s population grows. It identifies target acquisition areas to secure community parkland and fill gaps in
neighborhood park access.
To connect Bluffdale’s residents to destinations throughout the City and provide options for walking, biking
and horseback riding, the Plan proposes development of 7.2 miles of new trails, in addition to the previously
planned trails in Independence and the extension of the Bonneville Shoreline Trail. Many of these new trail
connections follow canals and creeks to connect residents to nature and between parks.



Implementation Strategies
Partnerships & Community Collaboration
Dedicated coordination and collaboration with other public agencies, as well as private and community
organizations, businesses and Bluffdale residents, will greatly enhance the City’s ability to fulfill the
community’s aspirations and the goals of this Plan.
Through enhanced internal coordination, the City can pursue trail corridors that meet both recreation and
transportation needs and utilize the development review process to identify trail easement and parkland set-
aside opportunities. Partnerships with the Jordan School District, Salt Lake County and nearby cities can
improve recreation options for Bluffdale residents through joint use, development and programming of park
and recreation facilities and trails.
The Bluffdale community has expressed interest in contributing to the development and stewardship of the
City’s park and recreational resources. Coordination with service and civic organizations can expand on
volunteer efforts to improve and beautify City’s parks, while also fostering a stronger sense of community
pride and ownership in park facilities. Finally, by engaging property owners, the City can open opportunities
to expand the park and trail system, while fostering a sense of legacy and stronger community ties for those
land owners.

Funding
The City of Bluffdale currently relies on impact fees and general funds to finance and maintain individual
projects. Additional, dedicated funding may be required to finance upgrades to, and growth in, the parks
system to meet community needs. Continuing to stay current with the Impact Fee Facilities Plan, which is
a program that assesses fees on new development to meet the increased demand for parks resulting from
the new growth, will allow the City to obtain future acquisition and development funding from residential
development. A short-term bond or levy could augment impact fee revenue to support parkland acquisitions
and development, trail development and general park upgrades. Such mechanisms would require both
political and public support, and as per the community survey results from this planning effort, a strong
majority of Bluffdale residents indicated a willingness to pay for park and recreation improvements. State and
federal grant programs offer additional potential opportunities to leverage available local revenues to fund
specific development projects.




                                                           Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   vii
       Page left intentionally blank.




viii
           Introduction




                                        1
Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   
Introduction & Plan Framework
Plan Overview
The City of Bluffdale began the preparation of its Parks, Trails, Recreation and Open Space Plan in
November 2014 to provide a logical blueprint for the management and growth of the City’s park system.
As a five-year guide and strategic plan for enhancing park and recreation services for the community, this
Plan establishes a path forward for providing high quality, community-driven parks, trails, open spaces
and recreational opportunities throughout Bluffdale. This Plan provides a vision for the City’s park and
recreation system; discusses City service standards for parks and trails; and addresses goals, objectives and
other management considerations toward the continuation of quality recreation opportunities and potential
upgrades to benefit the residents of Bluffdale.
This Parks, Trails, Recreation and Open Space Plan was developed with the input and direction of Bluffdale
residents, which included public meetings, a community survey and discussions with core stakeholders. It
was also guided by the City’s Parks, Trails, and Open Space Committee, who provided initial direction for
the planning project and reviewed intermediate products and the draft Plan. Also, the Plan inventories
and evaluates existing park and recreation areas, assesses the needs for acquisition, site development and
operations, and offers specific policies and recommendations to achieve the community’s goals.



Vision for the Future
The public outreach efforts during the comprehensive park planning process provided feedback from a variety
of City residents regarding their vision, needs and preferences for parks and recreation opportunities. Building
upon the vision statement noted in the City’s General Plan for parks, trails and open space (Chapter 5) and
through the outreach efforts for this Plan, an updated vision for the future emerged:
    Bluffdale envisions an interconnected community with a park, trail and open space system that contributes
    to the City’s small town character and that provides for and enhances a variety of recreation opportunities.
This vision provided the foundation for the goals, objectives, recommendations and guidelines in the
following chapters within this Plan.



Parks System Management Overview
The Engineering / Public Works Department manages the construction, operation and maintenance of all
City-owned public infrastructure, including parks and trails. Within the parks division, the department has
three staff with a fourth position approved in the most recent budget. Also, the City utilizes 2 - 4 seasonal
staff during peak periods to manage its facilities. The City also contracts seasonally for mowing services.



Review of Other Community Plans
To supplement community outreach, nine community plans were reviewed for past policy direction and goals
as they pertain to the provision and planning for parks, trails and recreation opportunities for Bluffdale. The
development of each involved public input and final adoption by their respective responsible legislative body.
   City of Bluffdale General Plan (2014)
   The 2014 General Plan establishes the policy guidance through specific goals and principles to maintain
   Bluffdale’s community values in the face of significant growth and supportive new infrastructure needs.
   The plan outlines the goals for safeguarding the tax rate; encouraging a variety of local employment;
   ensuring adequate public infrastructure; improving the transportation system; and enhancing recreation
   opportunities. Preserving the rural character of Bluffdale and a shared love of parks and recreation,
   especially trail amenities, contributes to Bluffdale’s unique community character along the Wasatch Front.
   The General Plan outlines several goals related to parks, trails and open space. For parks, Goal 1 is
   to maintain and promote a park system that meets appropriate standards and provides outstanding
   community gathering opportunities. Goal 2 is to prioritize an active program for park management,
   dedication, acquisition, and easements that will accommodate future park needs. For trails, the goal is to
   design and develop a comprehensive trail system that effectively accommodates pedestrian, bicycle, and
   equestrian uses. For open space, the goal is to strive to meet present and future recreational and sensitive
   resource protection needs of the City.
   Bluffdale developed a Trails Master Plan map in 2007 to identify trail-related opportunities in the
   community. Salt Lake County’s 2008 Southwest Parks and Trails Master Plan is largely consistent with
   the City’s General Plan, and the County is a committed partner in helping the City accomplish important
   regional trail connections, such as the Bonneville Shoreline Trail, the Jordan River Trail, and multiple
   canal and other corridor trails within the City. Developing this trails system represents an opportunity
   to significantly improve the variety of outdoor recreation opportunities available to residents, and enjoys
   broad community support.
   City of Bluffdale Capital Improvements Plan and Impact Fee Analysis (2013)
   The 2013 Bluffdale Capital Facilities Plan (CFP) and Impact Fee Analysis accompanied the 2014
   General Plan and outlined the City’s future growth patterns and its projected infrastructure needs. It
   contains separate chapters detailing the Impact Fee Facilities Plan (IFFP) and addresses needs for water,
   transportation, storm drain, public safety, parks and recreation and administrative services. Regarding
   parks, Bluffdale previously had previously adopted the standard of 7 acres of parks and recreational
   facilities per 1,000 residents. The 2013 Impact Fee Analysis recommended a more flexible definition
   of level of service (LOS) in terms of monetary value of improvements. The IFFP has been equated to
   $1,349,789.86 per 1,000 residents. In order to maintain this LOS, a conceptual plan for constructing
   future parks and recreation facilities for the City identified $43.2 million (2013 dollars) of future projects,
   including the specific parks agreed upon in the Independence at the Point subdivision development
   agreement.
   Southwest Regional Park Site Plan (2013)
   Southwest Regional Park is a Salt Lake County regional park on an 80-acre site at 14010 South and
   2700 West. The park’s master plan was approved in 2011 and include multiple parking lots providing
   vehicular access from the east, north and west; a trail system; pavilions, restrooms and playgrounds; multi-
   purpose sports fields; tennis, pickleball and basketball courts; open lawn areas; and extensive landscaping.


                                                            Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   
    The County is implementing Phase 1 site plan improvements targeting 45 acres in the east side of the
    proposed park. The remainder of the property will continue to be leased for farming until the County is
    ready to proceed with Phase 2.
    City of Draper Parks, Recreation, and Trails Master Plan (2008)
    In the 2008 Master Plan, Draper had a current inventory of 150.2 developed park acres with an
    additional 48.5 acres still undeveloped. Park priorities included upgrading existing parks and developing
    future parks as well as collaborating to design the county-owned Wheadon Farms property and provide
    complimentary amenities in the planned/future South Fork Park. Trail priorities include closing gaps in
    existing trail systems, linking neighborhoods, providing restrooms and adding more trails and trailheads.
    Draper’s trail system includes the Jordan River Parkway Trail and the Bonneville Shoreline Trail, county
    regional trails that link to Bluffdale. Draper’s Point of the Mountain trail is located on the east side of
    Interstate 15 and the rail line. Connecting to this multi-use paved trail from Bluffdale’s proposed Jordan
    and SLC Canal could link trail users to the Draper Canal Trail and the Porter Rockwell Trail and further
    to a network of hiking trails in the foothills of the Wasatch Front.
    Salt Lake County Parks & Recreation Master Plan (2005)
    The Salt Lake County Parks & Recreation Master Plan was developed to guide to guide the county’s
    future parks, open space and recreation facilities and program planning and development. Action priorities
    from county-wide survey identified the need to build new walking, hiking and biking trails, improve
    regional trails and provide a higher level of maintenance for parks, buildings, sports fields and open spaces.
    Park acreage needs were identified across the county with shortfalls of 902 acres for 2014 increasing to
    2,436 acres by 2030, using the adopted standard 5 acres per 1,000 people. In the Southwest planning area
    (includes Bluffdale), the county-wide park system currently exceeds the standard; however, with projected
    growth, a shortfall of 283 acres is expected by 2030. To address this shortfall, the Plan recommends that
    the County acquire three 40- to 120-acre community park sites in the area, including one in Central
    Bluffdale and one in Northwestern Bluffdale, near Herriman and Riverton.
    The Plan also calls for construction of a new recreational facility to serve Bluffdale, Herriman and
    Riverton, ideally near the convergence of the three cities (built now in Herriman). The new recreation
    center could include two high school-size gymnasiums, lap and leisure swimming pools, multi-purpose
    community gathering and activity space, a fitness and aerobics component, multi-purpose athletic fields,
    a skate park and/or other features typically found in centers of this dimension. The Plan identifies a
    potential location at Western Springs Park (12600 South 4600 West) or on a parcel of land to be acquired
    in the northwest portion of Bluffdale City.
    During the planning process, both public and agency stakeholders identified the need for more trails and
    trail connections and additional multi-purpose fields as the top two priorities for the Southwest county
    area. To address the need for trail connections, the Plan calls for the continued planning and improvement
    of the Jordan River Trail, Utah & Salt Lake Canal Trail and the Bonneville Shoreline Trail in the
    Bluffdale area.
    Southwest Trails and Parks Master Plan, Salt Lake County (2008)
    The primary objective of the Southwest Trails and Parks Master Plan was to establish an integrated
    and coherent approach to trails and park development in the Southwest part of the Valley. The plan
    included Herriman, Riverton, Draper and Bluffdale, as well as unincorporated portions of Salt Lake
    County. Specific trail alignments that provide realistic connections to existing and future destinations
    were proposed. One key finding from the trails plan indicated a significant change beginning in the


late 1980’s when the value of retaining open space and creating trails was recognized as beneficial and
incorporated into development patterns. Since then, cities began requiring corridor preservation as part
of development. The trail concept proposed in this master plan is to create a system of trails in a gridlike
pattern that traverses the project area, provides numerous access points from adjacent neighborhoods and
provides connections to major destinations within the area. Where proposed or existing development
interrupts the proposed grid system, adjustments were presented to complete the trail connections. Several
regional trails are proposed through Bluffdale including the undeveloped section of the Jordan River Trail,
the Bonneville Shoreline Trail, the Utah and Salt Lake Canal Trail. Other major trail systems include
four north-south trails following existing canal alignments (South Jordan Canal, Utah & Salt Lake Canal,
Utah Lake Distribution Canal, and Welby-Jacob Canal) and several east-west connector trails (14000
South Trail, 16000 South Trail, 14800 South Trail, and 15300 South Trail) as well as the extension of
existing equestrian trails to connect both east-west and north-south trails.
The county plan also identified a strong need to provide additional park space within the South sub-area
(Bluffdale) and proposed a new community park within the sub-area boundaries.
Salt Lake County East West Recreational Trails Master Plan (under development in 2015)
The Salt Lake County East West Recreational Trails Master Plan will identify preferred future trail
alignments to improve east-west connectivity. The Plan will also identify rights-of-way, potential trailhead
locations, opportunities to connect to Utah Transit Authority (UTA) and FrontRunner stations, and
potential solutions to key constraints to trail development.
In addition to the existing Jordan River Parkway Trail, the existing Utah & Salt Lake Canal Trail, and the
proposed Bonneville Shoreline Trail, this Plan is considering a network of potential trails through and
near Bluffdale. Salt Lake County staff and the project’s technical committee are currently developing a
Draft Plan, including prioritized alignments. In and near Bluffdale, the trail corridor alignments under
consideration include:
   ■   Parallel to the Mountain View Corridor Highway to the west of Bluffdale
   ■   Following the Welby Jacobs Canal along the Bluffdale’s northwest city limits
   ■   Along the existing Utah Lake Distribution Canal Trail
   ■   Along 2700 W between the existing Utah Lake Distribution Canal Trail and the Bangerter
       Highway
   ■   Along Rose Creek, then roughly paralleling the Bangerter Highway (154) to the Jordan River
       Parkway along Bluffdale’s northern limits.
Blueprint Jordan River (2008)
The Greenway that follows the Jordan River extends over 50 miles between Utah Lake and the Great Salt
Lake. The Blueprint documents the public visioning process for the future framework of conservation
of the Greenway and enhancement of recreational facilities and economic opportunities of several new
“river centers” along the corridor. The plan supports restoration of ecological function to support improved
water quality and biodiversity. The “blue-green” trail is intended to support boaters, cyclists, pedestrians
and wildlife enthusiasts. Salt Lake County completed three other studies in tandem with the Blueprint
process, which informed the Blueprint’s efforts: The Jordan River Trail Master Plan, The Water Quality
Stewardship Plan, and The Open Space Acquisition Plan. The Blueprint concluded with five key goals to
be accomplished:
   ■ The bulk of the remaining Open Space along the river must be protected.
   ■ Water quality must improve. This will entail improved water treatment and stormwater

                                                       Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   
          management practices, as well as stricter development standards within ½ mile of the river.
        ■ The trail must be completed through the 15 municipalities without gaps and the water way must be
          convenient to navigate with no hazardous obstructions.
        ■ An over-arching entity must be formed to ensure that the Blueprint is implemented (the Jordan
          River Commission).
        ■ There must be a variety of dedicated funding sources for capital projects, maintenance, and open
          space acquisition.
    Utah Collaborative Active Transportation Study (2013)
    The study was conducted in response to the need for more active transportation (walking and biking)
    options for residents along the Wasatch Front. The Utah Collaborative Active Transportation Study
    (UCATS) developed plans for infrastructure that will improve mobility for bicycles and enhance
    pedestrian and bicycle connectivity to major transit lines. The study laid the groundwork for an urban
    network of bicycle routes throughout the Wasatch Front and recommends walking routes within one
    mile from the Utah Transit Authority (UTA) TRAX and FrontRunner stations. UCATS has developed
    a Regional Bicycle Network with links to transit and identified 25 project areas to act as a foundation for
    creating a network of connections to evolve into a complete active transportation system for the Wasatch
    Front. Bluffdale has several sections of roadway corridors included on the Regional Bicycle Network.



Benefits of Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space
A number of organizations, non-profits, and studies have noted the overall health, economic, environmental
and social benefits provided by parks, open space and trails. In 2005, The Trust for Public Land published
“The Benefits of Parks: Why America Needs More City Parks and Open Space.” This report makes the following
observations about the benefits of parks and open space, all of which have health impacts.
    ■ Improvements to physical and mental health are increased through physical activity and contact with
      the natural world.
    ■ Social and community benefits, including more stable neighborhoods, improved social connections and
      reductions in crime and juvenile delinquency.
    ■ Increases in local economic prosperity as residential and commercial property values rise, community
      and economic development sustainability and enhanced tourism.
    ■ Environmental benefits through trees and other vegetation, which improve air quality, act as natural air
      conditioners and assist with storm water control and erosion.

Physical Activity Benefits
Residents in communities with increased access to parks, recreation, natural areas and trails have more
opportunities for physical activity, both through recreation and active transportation. By participating in
physical activity, residents can reduce their risk of being or becoming overweight or obese, decrease their
likelihood of suffering from chronic diseases, such as heart disease and type 2 diabetes and improve their
levels of stress and anxiety.
Nearby access to parks has been shown to increase levels of physical activity. According to studies cited in the
National Park and Recreation Association’s 2010 report, the majority of people of all ages who visit parks
are physically active during their visit. In addition, the CDC reports that greater access to parks leads to 25%
more people exercising three or more days per week. Park location and access also matters. According to a


study in Los Angeles, people who live within 1 mile of a park are four times more likely to visit the park one
or more times per week, compared to those who live further away.
Providing convenient access to parks and recreation is particularly important in neighborhoods with lower
socioeconomic status, as parks can provide free or low-cost options for physical activity.


Social and Community Benefits
Park and recreation facilities provide opportunities to engage with family, friends and neighbors, thereby
increasing social capital and community cohesion, which can improve residents’ mental health and overall
well-being. People who feel that they are connected to their community and those who participate in
recreational, community and other activities are more likely to have better mental and physical health and
to live longer lives than those who do not. Access to parks and recreational facilities has also been linked to
reductions in crime, particularly juvenile delinquency.


Economic Benefits
Parks and recreation facilities can bring positive economic impacts through increased property values,
increased attractiveness for businesses (quality of life) and workers and through direct increases in
employment opportunities. Improved economic conditions can in turn improve health outcomes as people
have more money to spend on food, housing, childcare and other daily needs. However, increased property
values can cause a decrease in housing affordability and an increase in housing displacement - due to rising
rents or property taxes - negatively impacting the quality of life for affected residents.



Contents of the Plan
The remainder of the Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan is organized as follows:
   ■   Chapter 2: Community Profile – describes the Bluffdale community and its demographics.
   ■   Chapter 3: Community Engagement – highlights the methods used to engage the Bluffdale
       community in the development of the Plan.
   ■   Chapter 4: Classifications, Inventory & Recreational Opportunities – describes the existing park and
       recreation system in the City.
   ■   Chapter 5: Goals & Objectives – provides a policy framework for the parks and recreation system
       grouped by major functional or program area.
   ■   Chapters 6: Needs Assessment & Recommendations – discusses survey results, stakeholder feedback
       and other recreation trend data and provides context to the identification of potential park and
       recreation system enhancements.
   ■   Chapter 7: Capital Facilities Plan – details a 5-year program for addressing park and recreation facility
       enhancement or expansion projects.
   ■   Chapter 8: Implementation Strategies – describes a range of strategies and alternatives to consider in
       the implementation of the Plan.
   ■   Appendices – Provides technical or supporting information to the planning effort and includes a
       summary of the community survey, stakeholder notes, funding options, among others.



                                                           Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   
    Page left intentionally blank.





Community Profile




                                           2
   Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   
Community Profile
Regional Context & Planning Area
The City of Bluffdale is located in north-central Utah, in the southern edge of Salt Lake County along the
Interstate 15 (I-15) corridor. Situated 22 miles south of Salt Lake City and 26 miles north of Provo, Bluffdale
has easy access to metropolitan amenities yet enough distance to maintain a rural, small-town atmosphere.
Bluffdale adjoins the cities of Herriman, Riverton, Draper and Lehi, and the City is bounded to the east by
I-15 and the south by the Camp Williams Army National Guard Reservation.
The City of Bluffdale is home to wide open spaces, dramatic mountain views of the Wasatch range and a
significant stretch of the Jordan River. The unique semi-rural lifestyle enjoyed in Bluffdale has drawn many
new residents - increasing the population in the last 35 years by 600% and incurring rapid housing and
infrastructure expansion.
With a dramatic landscape and unique natural resources, the Bluffdale community is characterized to a large
extent by its open residential layout and recreational opportunities. Many people in the community own
horses and enjoy the equestrian amenities that exist. While there are existing trails, the planned and on-going
expansion of the Jordan River Parkway Trail is heavily anticipated by residents. As the City continues to grow,
it will be important to maintain and expand its park, trail and recreation opportunities as a means to provide
for the recreational needs of its residents and to further set Bluffdale apart from other communities along the
Wasatch Front.



History & Community
Bluffdale, named for its geography of bluffs and dales, was first settled in the late 1840’s when the area was
originally part of West Jordan. Bluffdale City was incorporated as a municipality in 1978. City residents
are served by the Jordan School District, and one traditional public school (Bluffdale Elementary) is located
within city limits. Public charter schools are also located within Bluffdale. These include North Star Academy,
Summit Academy (K-8) and Summit Academy High School.
There are several community events and activities in Bluffdale throughout the year, including the Old West
Days, Rodeo, Easter Egg Hunt, Halloween Trunk or Treat and Movies in the Park, among others. The
Bluffdale Arts Advisory Board has been organizing small community theater productions for the past 25
years and also promotes the Battle of the Bands competition. The City does not sponsor its own recreation
programs, and youth league sports are organized through individual soccer and little league clubs. These teams
utilize Bluffdale City Park and other school district properties in the region for practices and games.




  	   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bluffdale,_Utah


10
Demographics
Population
The City of Bluffdale is a rapidly growing small city, home to many families with young children as well
as older adults. The City of Bluffdale experienced significant growth in the past 35 years, with a 600%
change from 1980 to 2013 (Figure 1). According to the 2010 Census, the City of Bluffdale grew by over
61% between 2000 and 2010 to a population of 7,598. By 2013, the population had grown further, to 7,812,
according to the American Community Survey. Based on current City building data, the 2015 population is
estimated to be approximately 10,000. Bluffdale is growing much faster than Salt Lake County as a whole,
where the population increased by 17% between 2000 and 2013 to 1,048,314 people.

  Figure 1. Bluffdale Population Change – 1970 - 2013




                                                        Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   11
  Figure 2. Population Characteristics: Bluffdale, Salt Lake County & Utah




Sub-county population projections published by the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget for the
City of Bluffdale suggest a strong continuation of this growth trend. The GOMB projects the city population
to reach 16,777 (a 120% increase over the 2010 Census) by 2030 and 25,125 (230% increase) by 2060.

  Figure 3. Population Projections (GOMB)




Bluffdale’s households generally have higher incomes than county and statewide figures, though
approximately 6% of families and 9% of the city’s youth live in poverty. The city is predominantly white, and
the population of persons with disabilities is slightly higher than the county and statewide averages.



12
Age Group Distribution
Compared with Salt Lake County, the City of Bluffdale has a younger population, with higher percentages
of youth under 18 years of age (37% compared to 29%), comparable but lower percentages of 18 to 64 year
olds, and lower percentages of people 65 and older. The median age of City residents is 26.7 – compared with
higher averages for Salt Lake County (31.2), the State of Utah (29.6) and the nation (37.3).
The City’s largest “20-year” population group is comprised of 0- to 19-year-olds, representing 41.3% of the
population in 2010. This age group cluster further illustrates the relative young age of the city population,
since the largest 20-year age group for Salt Lake County is the 15- to 34-year-olds that represent 32.3% of
the county wide population.
The availability of high-quality schools, recently built single-family homes, small town, rural feel with close
proximity to the Salt Lake City metropolitan center, and availability of outdoor recreation amenities may
account for the younger age of people living in Bluffdale versus the rest of Salt Lake County. These are
attractive features for families seeking to relocate to the City. The following breakdown is used to separate the
population into age-sensitive user groups.
    ■    Under 5 years: This group represents users of preschool and tot programs and facilities. As trails and
         open space users, they are often in strollers. These individuals are the future participants in youth
         activities.
    ■    5 to 14 years: This group represents current youth program participants.
    ■    15 to 24 years: This group represents teen/young adult program participants moving out of the youth
         programs and into adult programs. Members of this age group are often seasonal employment seekers.
    ■    25 to 34 years: This group represents involvement in adult programming with characteristics of
         beginning long-term relationships and establishing families.
    ■    35 to 54 years: This group represents users of a wide range of adult programming and park facilities.
         Their characteristics extend from having children using preschool and youth programs to becoming
         empty nesters.
    ■    55 years plus: This group represents users of older adult programming exhibiting the characteristics of
         approaching retirement or already retired and typically enjoying grandchildren. This group generally
         also ranges from very healthy, active seniors to more physically inactive seniors.
Figure 4 illustrates the age distribution characteristics of these cohorts, comparing 2010 to 2000.

   Figure 4. Age Group Distributions: 2000 & 2010




                                                            Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   13
Race & Ethnicity
In 2010, Bluffdale was 95.8% White, 0.4% Asian, 0.4% African American, 0.3% Native American, 0.3%
Pacific Islander, 1.1% other, and 1.8% from two or more races. Just over 4% of people identified as Hispanic
or Latino of any race. This was a 33% increase of communities of color since 2000, when there were
approximately 3.3% Latinos.
According to the 2013 American Community Survey, approximately 4% of Bluffdale’s population speaks
a language other than English at home. This is a lower of percentage of people than in Salt Lake County
(19.7%) and Utah (14.3%).



Household Characteristics
According to Bluffdale’s General Plan, in 2014, the population of over 8,000 people were living in 2,100
housing units. This ratio yields one of Utah’s largest average household sizes (3.86 persons per household in
2010). Salt Lake County’s average household size is 2.98 compared to the state’s average size of 3.09 persons
per household.
In the 2013 American Community Survey, the average household size in the City of Bluffdale was 3.79
people, higher than the state (3.12) and national (2.63) average. Average household size has decreased slightly
since 2000, when it was 4.23 people per household. The average family size in Bluffdale also is larger, at 4.18
people. Of the 2,056 households in the City, 52% have children under 18, 74% were married couples living
together, 9% had a single head of household, and 17% were non-families.
In 2010, Bluffdale had 2,059 housing units with a 95.5% occupancy level. The majority of housing units were
owner-occupied (81.3%) with a renter-occupied housing level of 18.7%.



Income & Poverty
According to the American Community Survey, the 2013 median household income in the City of Bluffdale
was $88,657. This figure is about $28,102 (46%) higher than the median income for Salt Lake County
residents, $29,836 (51%) for residents of Utah, and $35,611 (67%) across the United States. The median
household income in Bluffdale has increased by over 33% ($66,615) since 2000. The Bluffdale General Plan
reports that HUD’s Area Median Income (AMI) for Salt Lake County is $70,300 and the average household
size is 2.96, putting the moderate-income threshold at $50,650 for the County.
At the lower end of the household income scale, approximately eleven percent (10.9%) of Bluffdale
households earn less than $25,000 annually, which is significantly fewer than households of Salt Lake County
(17.9%) and the State of Utah (18.1%). On the other end, over two-fifths of City households (44.4%) have
household incomes in the higher income brackets ($100,000 and greater), which is higher than the county
(22.2%), the state (23.7%) and national (22%) figures.
At the lower end of the family income scale, only six percent (6.0%) of Bluffdale families were below poverty
level, which is significantly fewer than households of Salt Lake County (9.4%) and the State of Utah (9.3%).




14
Community Engagement




                                               3
       Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   15
Community Engagement
Community engagement and input played a important role in establishing a clear planning framework that
reflects current community priorities. Most residents care deeply about the future of park and recreation
opportunities in Bluffdale and appreciated the opportunity to offer feedback in the development of this Plan.
Public outreach methods were varied and extensive, including:
     ■ A mail-based community survey
     ■ 2 community meetings
     ■ 5 stakeholder discussions
     ■ 3 Parks Advisory Committee meetings
Throughout this process, the public provided information and expressed opinions about their needs and
priorities for parks, trails and recreation opportunities in Bluffdale. This feedback played a crucial role in
preparing and organizing policy statements and prioritizing the capital facilities project list contained within
this Plan.



Community Survey
The City of Bluffdale contracted for the administration of a community survey between April and June of
2015 as a component of this Plan. The purpose of the survey was to gather input to help determine park, trail,
greenway and recreation priorities of the community. In collaboration with staff, the project team designed a
27-question survey to assess residents’ recreational needs, preferences and priorities. This allowed the survey to
be tailored to issues of strategic importance to effectively plan the future of the parks and recreation system.
The survey was designed to obtain representative results from households across the City of Bluffdale. It
was administered as a mail survey, and the master mailing list was provided by the City of Bluffdale from its
address database. In all, over 2,600 surveys were mailed, and a total of 627 surveys were completed (response
rate of 23.5%). Survey respondents had the option to return the print version or to call a 1-800 number
to have the survey administered in Spanish over the phone. The sample size is sufficient to assess opinions
generally and allows a review by multiple subgroups including age, gender and other demographics.
Major survey findings are noted below, and a more detailed discussion of results can be found in the Needs
Assessment chapter of this Plan (Chapter 6). The survey instrument and a summary of the response data are
provided in Appendix A.

Major Findings
Bluffdale residents generally are satisfied with parks, trails and recreation opportunities in the city, but many
indicated an interest in additional or expanded services and facilities.
     ■   The City of Bluffdale gets high grades for parks quality and upkeep. Overall satisfaction (“excellent”

16
       and “good”) with the condition of parks was high (87%).
   ■   Responses were equally favorable regarding the quality of special events in the City, with 86% of
       respondents rating special events as excellent or good.
   ■   75% indicated a need for walking and biking trails. Other desired recreation amenities include: picnic
       shelters/pavilions (68%), playgrounds (66%), and trails along river (66%).
   ■   Amenities that appeal to a wide array of ages and abilities rank highest (trails, playgrounds, water play
       access & rodeo grounds).
   ■   Upgrading existing and developing new trails is a high priority. In many cases, upgrading existing
       facilities ranked higher than developing new facilities.
   ■   City residents indicated a strong willingness to support funding for their preferred recreation
       improvements. About 71% surveyed are willing to support at least $4 per month in added taxes. Over
       26% were willing to pay over $10 per month.



Community Open House Meetings
Community members were invited to two public open houses to offer direct comments and feedback
about the future of parks, trails and recreation opportunities in Bluffdale. The intent was to elicit feedback
from residents on the future vision for the City, explore program and facility opportunities and identify
local recreation needs crucial to planning development. The meetings were held on January 29 and June 4,
2015. For each open house, the project team prepared informational displays related to parks, recreation,
trails and open space areas. The City’s website, a local newspaper, a MindMixer online platform and social
media announcements were used to publicize the events. Each meeting lasted up to two hours, and meeting
summary notes are provided in Appendix B.
A joint work session of Parks Advisory Committee and the Planning Commission was held on September 2,
2015. The draft Parks, Trails, Recreation and Open Space Plan was reviewed and discussed, with a focus on
proposed goals and strategies.



Stakeholder Discussions
Internal and external stakeholder interviews were conducted to more broadly assess the opportunities for
partnership and coordination. Stakeholders were identified by city staff based on their past coordination
with the City and their involvement or interest in the future of the City’s park, recreation or trail facilities.
The stakeholder meetings were held between mid May and late July 2015 and included the following
organizations:
   ■ Jordan School District
   ■ Old West Days
   ■ Local residential developers
   ■ City Public Works staff (management and parks maintenance personnel)

Stakeholder comments were often specific to the particular perspective or interest of the stakeholder group.
Overall, comments were generally favorable in regard to existing City facilities and the potential for future
improvements within Bluffdale. Stakeholders recognized the limited financial capacity of the City and were
often quick to offer suggestions for potential partnerships or other means to accomplish specific projects.

                                                             Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   17
Suggested projects ranged from coordinating the development of trail connections, identifying opportunities
for sport fields, and improving wayfinding and signage. Specific recommendations are reflected in the Needs
Assessment chapter (Chapter 6), and stakeholder discussion summaries are provided in Appendix C.



Parks Advisory Committee Meetings
The City established a new Parks Advisory Committee in the fall of 2014 to help guide and provide input for
the development of this Parks, Trails, Recreation and Open Space Plan. The Advisory Committee provided
feedback on the Plan during three regularly scheduled public sessions. The first session occurred on August
13, 2014 prior to the planning project being initiated. The Committee discussed the update and provided
their perspectives on a vision for Bluffdale parks and recreation, specific challenges, opportunities and
potential community partnerships. The second session, held on November 5, 2014, was a general project kick-
off meeting and discussion between the Committee and the project team, and topics of discussion included
current perceptions, challenges and opportunities. The Committee also met on May 21, 2015 to review and
discuss the draft goals and objectives for the Plan based, in part, on the community feedback from the first
open house and discussions with staff.



Other Outreach
In addition to the direct outreach opportunities noted above, the Bluffdale community was informed about
the planning process through a variety of media channels. The following methods were used to inform
residents about the project and about opportunities to participate and offer their comments.
     ■   Bluffdale Times ( city newsletter )
     ■   City websites ( bluffdale.com & planbluffdale.com )
     ■   MindMixer ( bluffdale.mindmixer.com )
     ■   Facebook
     ■   South Valley Journal


A project webpage was posted on a city-hosted website ( planbluffdale.com ) to provide background
information, meeting announcements and project materials such as meeting notes, displays and summary
reports. In advance of each public meeting, the City posted a project webpage update and provided media
announcements.




18
Inventory & Classifications




                                                   4
           Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   19
Inventory & Classifications
This chapter is segmented into two sections. The first section defines the various facility classifications in use
in Bluffdale, and the second is an inventory of existing facilities.



Park Classifications
Parkland is classified to assist in planning for the community’s recreational needs. The Bluffdale park system
is composed of a hierarchy of various park types, each offering recreation and/or natural area opportunities.
Separately, each park type may serve only one function, but collectively the system will serve the full range of
community needs. Classifying parkland by function allows the City to evaluate its needs and to plan for an
efficient, cost effective and usable park system that minimizes conflicts between park users and adjacent uses.
The classification characteristics are meant as general guidelines addressing the intended size and use of each
park type. The following six classifications are in effect in Bluffdale and are defined as follow.
     ■   Community Parks
     ■   Neighborhood Parks
     ■   Pocket Parks
     ■   Special Use Areas
     ■   Open Space
     ■   Trails



Community Parks
Community parks are larger sites developed for organized play, containing a wider array of facilities and, as a
result, appealing to a more diverse group of users. They are planned to provide active and structured recreation
opportunities, as well as passive and non-organized opportunities for individual and family activities.
Community parks are generally 10 to 40 acres in size, should meet a minimum size of 15 acres when possible
and serve residents within a 1-mile drive, walk or bike ride from the site. In areas without neighborhood
parks, community parks can also serve as local neighborhood parks.
In general, community park facilities are designed for organized or intensive recreational activities and sports,
although passive components such as pathways, picnic areas and natural areas are highly encouraged and
complementary to active use facilities. Since community parks serve a larger area and offer more facilities than
neighborhood parks, parking and restroom facilities should be provided.




20
Neighborhood Parks
Neighborhood parks are generally considered the basic unit of traditional park systems. They are small park
areas designed for unstructured, non-organized play and limited active and passive recreation. They are
generally 1-5 acres in size, depending on a variety of factors including neighborhood need, physical location
and opportunity, and should meet a minimum size of 2.5 acres in size when possible.
Neighborhood parks are intended to serve residential areas within close proximity (up to ½-mile walking or
biking distance) of the park and should be geographically distributed throughout the community. Access to
neighborhood parks is mostly pedestrian, and park sites should be located such that people living within the
service area can reach the park safely and conveniently. Park siting and design should ensure pedestrians do
not have to cross a major arterial street or other significant natural or man-made barriers to get to the site,
unless safe crossings are provided. Neighborhood parks should be located along road frontages to improve
visual access and community awareness of the sites. Connecting and frontage streets should include sidewalks
or other safe pedestrian access. Additionally, street plans should encourage maximum connectivity and public
access to park sites.
Generally, developed neighborhood parks typically include amenities such as pedestrian paths, picnic tables,
benches, play equipment, a multi-use open field for informal play, sport courts or multi-purpose paved areas
and landscaping. Restrooms are not provided due to high construction and maintenance costs. Parking is also
not usually provided; however, on-street, ADA-accessible parking stall(s) may be provided.



Pocket Parks
Pocket parks are small parks, less than one-half acre, often designed as play lots to serve nearby young
children and their parents. Pocket parks are the smallest park classification and are used to address limited
or isolated recreational needs. These parks serve a limited radius (up to 1/4-mile) from the site and provide
passive and play-oriented recreational opportunities. Amenities are usually limited to small playground
facilities, small open grass areas and minimal site furnishings. Passive uses may include picnic areas and
sitting areas. Examples of pocket parks can include a tot lot with play equipment such as a climber, slide
or swings; a small plaza; or civic recognition project. Locating pocket parks adjacent to other park system
components, such as recreational trails, is also desirable. Parking is not provided at pocket parks.
Although several pocket parks have been built in Bluffdale in recent years, they have higher maintenance
costs, and the existing pocket parks have little to no opportunity for expansion. This Plan recommends
pursuing larger community and neighborhood parks to provide a higher recreational utility value.



Special Use Areas
Special use areas include single-purpose recreational areas or stand-alone sites designed to support a specific,
specialized use. This classification includes stand-alone sport field complexes, arenas, community centers,
community gardens or sites occupied by buildings. Specialized facilities may also be provided within a park
of another classification. No standards exist or are proposed concerning special facilities, since facility size is a
function of the specific use.




                                                              Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   21
Open Space
Open space lands are individual or isolated tracts that are primarily left in a natural state with recreation use
as a secondary objective. These lands are usually owned or managed by a governmental agency, which may
or may not have public access. The open space classification often includes detention basins, steep hillsides
or other similar spaces. In some cases, environmentally sensitive areas are classified as open space and can
include wildlife habitats, stream and creek corridors, or unique and/or endangered plant species. Open space
lands may serve as trail corridors and provide for low-impact or passive activities, such as walking and nature
observation. No standards exist or are proposed for open space lands.



Trails
Trails are non-motorized recreation and transportation networks generally separated from roadways. Trails
can be developed to accommodate multiple or shared uses, such as pedestrians and bicyclists, or a single use.
Recreation trail alignments aim to emphasize a strong relationship with the natural environment and may not
provide the most direct route from a practical transportation viewpoint.
This plan for the recreational trails system uses a trail hierarchy
(right) to create a series of interconnected linkages throughout
the City and represents a trail framework based on the planned
users volumes and intensity. This hierarchy conceptualizes




                                                                                                                            Re
a branching circulation network of non-motorized routes -




                                                                                                                               gi
                                                                                     l
                                                                                 rai




                                                                                                                              on
                                                                             al T
ranging from cross-regional and inter-city primary corridors,




                                                                                                                               al T
                                                                            on




                                                                                                                                   rai
to secondary intra-city neighborhood corridors, to minor local            Reg
                                                                              i




                                                                                                                                       l
connections - with the primary purpose focused on recreation.                             Local Trail
These interconnected linkages enable recreational trail users to




                                                                                                        Co
                                                                                                          ec
create loops or individualized routes depending on desired travel




                                                                                                          nn
                                                                                                            to
                                                                                                               r   Tra
                                                                                                                       il
distances or specific destinations.
The differences between the trail classifications within the
hierarchy are based on purpose, intensity of use and connections,
rather than on trail width, material or user. Four trail
classifications exist within the Bluffdale network: regional, connector, local and equestrian trails. These four
trail classes serve as the primary linkages across and through the City. Figure 5 describes the four trail types
in Bluffdale.




22
   Figure 5. Trail Types & Characteristics


 Classification Function                             Users                  Surfaces               Width         Clearance           Amenities

                        Providesmajor                                                                                              Trailhead,Parking,
                                                      Pedestrians,
                        connectionstoadjacent                                                                 Side:2'Ͳ6"        Restrooms,Site
                                                      Cyclists,Skaters.
                        communitiesand                                     Asphalt,Concrete                                      Furnishings,Lighting,
RegionalTrail                                       Equestrianwhere                             10'Ͳ12'
                        significantnatural                                 orBoardwalk.                                           Signage
                                                      feasible(parallel
                        features,suchasrivers                                                                Vertical:10'Ͳ0"
                                                      andseparate).
                        andcreeks                                                                               Vertical:12'Ͳ0"(Equestrian)


                        Connectsimportantuses
                                                                             Asphalt,Concrete
                        andareasofinterest,                                                                  Side:2'Ͳ0"        SiteFurnishings,
                                                                             orBoardwalk.
                        oftenwithina          Pedestrians,                                                                       Signage
ConnectorTrail                                                             Gravel                 8'Ͳ12'
                        neighborhood,typically Cyclists,Skaters.
                                                                             connectionsmay
                        usingstreetrightsof                                                                  Vertical:10'Ͳ0"
                                                                             bepermitted.
                        way



                        Provideslocal
                                                      Pedestrians.                                              Side:1'Ͳ0"
                        connectionstofeatures,                            Asphalt,Concrete,                                     Signage
                                                      Equestrianwhere
LocalTrail            suchasparks,                                      Boardwalkor           5'Ͳ8'
                                                      feasible(parallel
                        communitycentersand                               Gravel.
                                                      andseparate).                                             Vertical:10'Ͳ0"
                        schools
                                                                                                                 Vertical:12'Ͳ0"(Equestrian)



                        Providesequestrian                                                         4'Ͳ6'     Side:1'Ͳ0"        Trailhead,Parking,
                        connectionsseparate                                Earthen,Wood                                          Signage
EquestrianTrail                                     Equestrian.
                        fromorparalleltoother                           Chip.
                        pedestrian/bicycletrails                                                               Vertical:12'Ͳ0"




                                                                                  Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015        23
Facility Inventory
Bluffdale provides and maintains a growing system of parks that supports a range of active and passive
experiences. City-provided athletic fields are available at City Park and Parry Farms, which include one large
soccer field and two softball/baseball fields. Bluffdale also provides a centrally-located equestrian arena at
the west end of City Park. The City does not currently offer recreation programs, although organized sports
are provided by private youth leagues, and the Jordan School District offers some additional recreation
programming for youth.
The park and open space inventory identifies the recreational assets within Bluffdale. The City provides nearly
60 acres of public parkland and recreation facilities distributed among 9 park sites and numerous open space
parcels. The following table summarizes the available land inventory in Bluffdale.

  Figure 6. Existing Inventory: City-owned Park Lands

     Park Name                                          Classification                Status        Acreage
     BluffdaleCityPark(exclrodeogrounds)           CommunityPark                Developed       22.37
                                                                           Subtotal                   22.37

     Mt.JordanPark                                    NeighborhoodPark             Developed        3.69
     PhillipGatesMemorialPark                        NeighborhoodPark             Developed        4.54
                                                                           Subtotal                    8.23

     ParryFarmsBaseballFields                        SpecialFacility              Developed        7.22
     RodeoGrounds                                      SpecialFacility              Developed        9.55
                                                                           Subtotal                   16.77

     BluffdaleHeightsPark                             PocketPark                   Developed        0.46
     IndependencePocketPark#1(West)                 PocketPark                   Developed        0.30
     IndependencePocketPark#2(East)                 PocketPark                   Developed        0.20
     PonderosaPark                                     PocketPark                   Developed        1.12
     TenSleepCirclePark                              PocketPark                   Developed        0.44
                                                                           Subtotal                    2.52

     PalisadeAcresDetentionPond                      OpenSpace                    Undeveloped      1.14
     ParryFarmsPark/DetentionPond                    OpenSpace                    Undeveloped      2.91
     IndependenceTrailCorridor                        OpenSpace                    Undeveloped      1.93
     IndependenceTrailCorridor                        OpenSpace                    Undeveloped      0.64
     IndependenceTrailCorridor                        OpenSpace                    Undeveloped      0.86
     IndependenceTrailCorridor                        OpenSpace                    Undeveloped      1.05
                                                                           Subtotal                     8.53

                                                                  Total Acreage                       58.42




The City also has agreements in place with developers for the planned development of certain future parks
and trail linkages as part of residential development projects underway. Approximately 14.6 acres of new
parkland will be added to the park system in the near-term. The following table identifies the planned parks.




24
   Figure 7. Planned Parks

     Park Name                                        Classification                 Status               Acreage
      PlannedMarketplacePark                         NeighborhoodPark              Undeveloped              1.37
      PlannedIndependencePark                        NeighborhoodPark              Undeveloped              5.91
      PlannedVintagePark                             NeighborhoodPark              Undeveloped              5.00
                                                                       Subtotal                               12.28

      PlannedWestPocketPark                         PocketPark                    Undeveloped              1.94
      PlannedCenterPocketPark                       PocketPark                    Undeveloped              0.41
                                                                       Subtotal                                2.35


In addition to parks, several trail segments exist within the City, but there is limited connectivity. Salt Lake
County is currently working toward the construction of two trail segments of the Jordan River Parkway that
will complete crucial gaps that limit the utility of the larger greenway trail. The City has made effort to have
new trail segments installed in concert with new residential development. For example, new trail corridors
have been built and more are planned within the Independence and Parry Farms neighborhoods. The
following table identifies existing trail segments within Bluffdale.

   Figure 8. Trail Types & Characteristics

     Trail Segment                                                   Classification         Surface            Ownership             Mileage
      JordanRiverParkwayTrail(Northsection)                     Regional             Asphalt           SaltLakeCounty            1.36
      JordanRiverParkwayTrail(Centralsection)                   Regional             Asphalt           SaltLakeCounty            1.85
      JordanRiverParkwayTrail(Southsection)                     Regional             Asphalt           SaltLakeCounty            1.17
      JordanRiverParkwaySpurTrail(viaArrowTrailhead)          Regional             Asphalt           SaltLakeCounty            0.60
                                                                                                               Subtotal:Regional       4.98

      BonnevilleShorelineTrail                                     Community            Asphalt           BluffdaleCity              0.56
                                                                                                            Subtotal:Community         0.56

      CityParkTrail                                                Local                Asphalt           BluffdaleCity              0.61
      IndependenceTrail(Northsection)                             Local                Asphalt           BluffdaleCity              0.59
      IndependenceTrail(SWtoAllegianceDr)                       Local                Asphalt           BluffdaleCity              0.18
      IndependenceTrail(SEtoHeritageCrestWay)                  Local                Asphalt           BluffdaleCity              0.25
      PalisadeDetentionPondConnector                              Local                Concrete          BluffdaleCity              0.06
      ParryFarmsSpurTrail                                         Local                Asphalt           BluffdaleCity              1.46
      SpringViewFarmsTrail(viaRoyalCoachmanDr)                Local                Asphalt           BluffdaleCity              1.34
      SpringViewFarmsTrail(viaSpringViewPkwy)                 Local                Asphalt                                       0.30
                                                                                                                   Subtotal:Local      4.80

      EquestrianEasement(N/Sroutewestof3200W)                  Equestrian           Dirt              BluffdaleCity              0.14
      EquestrianEasement(N/Sroutewestof3200W)                  Equestrian           Dirt              BluffdaleCity              0.16
      EquestrianEasement(E/Wbtwn14865S&15000S)               Equestrian           Dirt              BluffdaleCity              0.42
      EquestrianEasement(E/Wbtwn14750S&14865S)               Equestrian           Dirt              BluffdaleCity              0.30
      JordanRiverParkwayEquestrianTrail                          Equestrian           Dirt              SaltLakeCounty            0.59
      JordanRiverParkwayEquestrianTrail(Northsection)          Equestrian           Dirt              SaltLakeCounty            1.20
      JordanRiverParkwayEquestrianTrail(Centralsection)        Equestrian           Dirt              SaltLakeCounty            1.84
      JordanRiverParkwayEquestrianTrail(Southsection)         Equestrian           Dirt              SaltLakeCounty            0.63
      RodeoGrounds                                                  Equestrian           Dirt              BluffdaleCity              0.44
                                                                                                             Subtotal:Equestrian       5.71

                                                                                                           Total Trail Mileage 16.06

                                                                                Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   25
The maps on the following pages show the location of existing parks, trails and recreation areas within and
around the City.



Other Nearby Resources
School Facilities
Schools are an important resource for recreation facilities such as sport fields, playgrounds and gymnasiums.
The Jordan School District is the public school organization serving Bluffdale Within the City, Bluffdale
Elementary School is an important site for community recreation, as well as education. The school includes a
playground, ball fields and sport courts. The fields at Bluffdale Elementary School have been rented by sport
leagues in past years, but they were not rentable in 2014 because the school hosted its own softball league for
students.

Salt Lake County Lands
Salt Lake County is currently constructing the first phase of the 80-acre Southwest Regional Park. The future
park will include multiple sport fields, a splash pad, tennis and basketball courts, parking and restrooms. Salt
Lake County also owns several other properties within the city limits of Bluffdale. Most of the acreage is
located along the Jordan River valley and includes three trailhead sites to support the Jordan River Parkway
Trail.

Private Development
Open spaces held by private homeowners’ associations provide existing and potential opportunities for park
and recreation facilities. Typically, land within a residential development that is not suitable for construction
or located within sensitive lands (i.e., steep slopes, etc) may be retained as open space tracts. Residential
developments also may own and maintain small private parks. The Falls at Boulden Ridge is an example of a
private homeowners association park within Bluffdale.

   Figure 9. Existing Inventory: Parks & Open Spaces by Other Providers

      Park Name                                          Classification   Owner                               Acreage
     BluffdaleElementarySchool                        Neighborhood      JordanSchoolDistrict                    2.84
                                                                                                   Subtotal         2.84

     ArrowPropertyTrailhead                           OpenSpace        SaltLakeCounty                         10.1
     JordanNarrowsTrailhead                           OpenSpace        SaltLakeCounty                         4.43
     SouthwestRegionalCountyPark                     Regional          SaltLakeCounty                        80.64
     SpringViewFarmsTrailhead                        OpenSpace        SaltLakeCounty                             21
     OtherCountyͲownedOpenSpace                      OpenSpace        SaltLakeCounty                       460.78
                                                                                                   Subtotal       576.95

     FallsatBouldenRidge                             Pocket            FallsatBouldenRidgeHOA                1.58
                                                                                                   Subtotal         1.58

                                                                          Total Acreage                          581.37




26
Indoor Recreation Facilities
Although there are no indoor recreation facilities located within Bluffdale, several recreation centers are
within short drives of the city. Salt Lake County, Herriman, Riverton and South Jordan operate and program
indoor recreation centers. In addition, Draper and Salt Lake County operate outdoor pools nearby.



Other Urban Park Systems
Several adjacent incorporated cities provide park and recreation opportunities that should be considered
relevant components of the overall Bluffdale recreation system. The three adjacent municipalities of Riverton,
Herriman and Draper operate and maintain park, trail and recreation facilities, along with programming.
Some potential facilities serving Bluffdale’s growth, such as community trails, will require partnerships and
coordination that extend beyond city boundaries.




                                                          Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   27
28
     Park Inventory Amenity Matrix




                                                                                      Playground (toddler)
                                                                                                             Playground (large)
                                                                                                                                  Swing Set
                                                                                                                                              Pavilion
                                                                                                                                                         Picnic Tables
                                                                                                                                                                         Benches
                                                                                                                                                                                   Restroom
                                                                                                                                                                                              Pathways
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Parking
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sport Fields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sport Courts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Horseshoe Pits




     Park Name                            Classification      Status        Acreage
     BluffdaleCityPark                  CommunityPark      Developed       31.92                                X                 X           2         16             10          X          X         X           X              X               X

     Mt.JordanPark                      NeighborhoodPark   Developed        3.69                                X                 X           2            4                       X          X         X                          X

     PhillipGatesMemorialPark          NeighborhoodPark   Developed        4.54                                X                 X           1            9            2          X          X         X

     ParryFarmsBaseballFields          SpecialFacility    Developed        7.22                                                                           3                       X                    X           X

     BluffdaleHeightsPark               PocketPark         Developed        0.46                                X                             1            4                                  X

     IndependencePocketPark#1(West)   PocketPark         Developed         0.3                                                                                                              X

     IndependencePocketPark#2(East)   PocketPark         Developed         0.2          X                                                                                                   X

     PonderosaPark                       PocketPark         Developed        1.12                                                                           1                                            X

     TenSleepCirclePark                PocketPark         Developed        0.44          X                                                                                                   X

     PalisadeAcresDetentionPond        OpenSpace          Undeveloped      1.14

     ParryFarmsPark/DetentionPond      OpenSpace          Undeveloped      2.91

     IndependenceTrailCorridor          OpenSpace          Undeveloped      4.48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REDWOOD RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HW
BIG BUCK CV




                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER EB HWY                      BANGER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EB
                                                                   13800 S                                                                                                                      TER WB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER EB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                       HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13800 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BANGERTER WB HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ER
                         MULEY CT                                                      Palisade Acres Detention Pond




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NG
                                                       WHITE TAIL CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SADDLE HORN CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2200 W
                                        DEER HILL WY                                  PONY LN                                                                                                               2820 W
                               4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1835 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MARKETVIEW DR                                                               HOME FR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13930 S 13930 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SADDLE HORN DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ON        T CIR
              BUCK HOLLOW DR                                                                                                                                                       WARREN CIR
                                                                             WASATCH VISTA DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BRIDLE WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13970 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14000 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R                                                                     BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BETHANY HILLS CV                                 E       TD                                                                                                       BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RN             DR
                  BUCK HOLLOW LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BE          ELLO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CLYDESDALE CIR                                                                                                        14050 S                                                                                                                                         CA        BRUN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2055 W
                                                       DEER HAVEN CV




                                                                                                3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NAPA AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                SW Regional Park                                                                                                                                                                  14095 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1850 W
                                   DEER ORCHARD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14150 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14165 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DR
                                             FAWN HILL LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14200 S                                                                                                         14200 S                                                               14200 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CEMETERY ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       STONE FLY DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                     COUNTRY CLASSIC DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         YA L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14270 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MIS
                                                                                                           3450 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bluffdale City Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PEACOCK MIDGE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GE D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MID
                                                                                                                                                                                              VANTAGE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14400 S                                                                                                                                                                         14400 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FROST CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VIEW PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Phillip Gates Memorial Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2585 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2390 W
                                                                                                                    3400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CENTER POINT WY
                                                                                                                                          Ponderosa Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SP RING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14455 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1010 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C RE




                                                                                                                                                  BARTONS LN                                                                                                                                                      14550 S                                                        OAK POINT DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1515 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1700 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PERSCHON CIR                                           WANLASS WY
                                                                                            3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                      14600 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14600 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1630 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1690 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TE




                                                                                                                    BOULDEN BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAGE CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                800 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      830 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1000 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SPENCER CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              850 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P CIR




                                                                                                                                                                      VERA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14700 S
                                                                                                         Falls at Boulden Ridge                                          14750 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STATEHOOD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 130
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ASPEN AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14805 S
                                                                                                                                                             3200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2890 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HERITAGECREST WY
                                                                                                                                      BLUE
                                                                                                                                           SPRI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14800 S
                                                                                                                                                  NGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CONCORD PARK DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                        LN                                                                                                                                                                                           14850 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                          14865 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RA
                                                                                                                             CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELK
                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F
                                                                                                                               TL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REE
                                                                                                                                  E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KC
                                                                                                                                    VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
                                                                                                                                                                                3030 W
                                                                                                                                       LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2490 W
                                                                                                                                          EY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ON

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            B1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MARM
                                                                                                                                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2405 W
                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AC CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 146

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pocket Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1800 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOUNTAINSIDE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2475 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mt. Jordan Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RS
                                                                                                                                                                                         2920 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MOUNTAINSIDE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15090 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Parry Farms Baseball Fields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LV


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROCK HOLLOW DR                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bluffdale Heights Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ME                   OY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15170 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AD                    W     Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MU                  GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LE                       DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15220 S                                                                                                                                                        A    IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IRO                       DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15250 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GU                  YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R   DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GREENE FERN CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S                                                                                    SM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15075
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INDIAN PAINT CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SILVERPOINT WY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PINEHOLLOW LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AS                 ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NT                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEC                   IL D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R    ETA                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SEA                  RIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TT                   TD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LE                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SLU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E      DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PITCHFOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BLACK GOLD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WAR ADMIRAL DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Parry Farms Park/Detention Pond
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ER GU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LCH D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAN O WAR DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIVER VIEW DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GUN STOCK DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRAIRIE HILL DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I-15 SB FW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIAM




                  Legend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SRD




                                             City Parks: Existing
                                             City Parks: Planned
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        167
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              67 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G STA




                                             City-owned parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIDIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SUN




                                             HOA Park
                                             HOA Open Space
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JORDAN NARROWS RD




                                             Salt Lake County parcels
                                             School District parcels
                                             Charter School parcels
                                             Camp Williams
                                             Streets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CAMP




                                             Parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WILLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AM




                                             Canals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S RD




                                                                                                                                                    This map is intended for planning and
                                                                                                                                                    informational purposes and may not have been
                                                                                                                                                    prepared for, or be suitable for legal, engineering
                                             River                                                                                                  or surveying purposes.




                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                    The proposed park gaps areas are intended to
                                             City boundary                                                                                          illustrate general   deficiencies, which will be
                                                                                                                                                    assessed further upon future studies and
                                                                                                                                                    negotiations with property owners for access and
                                             County boundary                                                                                        use.

              0                          0.25                                0.5                                                      1                                                                                 1.5                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Miles




                     Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
                  City of Bluffdale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ad o pte d 1 0/28/ 1 5
                   Map 1: Existing Parks
                  Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
     Page left intentionally blank.




30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REDWOOD RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HW
BIG BUCK CV




                                                                                                                                                  BANGERTER EB HWY                          BANGER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EB
                                                                   13800 S                                                                                                                         TER WB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER EB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                          HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13800 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BANGERTER WB HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ER
                         MULEY CT                                                      Palisade Acres Detention Pond                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NG
                                                       WHITE TAIL CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SADDLE HORN CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2200 W
                                        DEER HILL WY                                  PONY LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2820 W
                               4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1835 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARKETVIEW DR                                                                HOME FR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13930 S 13930 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SADDLE HORN DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ON        T CIR
              BUCK HOLLOW DR                                                                                                                                                          WARREN CIR
                                                                             WASATCH VISTA DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BRIDLE WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13970 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14000 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR                                                                             BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BANGERTER WB HWY
                  BUCK HOLLOW LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CLYDESDALE CIR                                                                                                        14050 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BETHANY HILLS CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BRUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ELLO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DR                                                                                                        \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2055 W
                                                       DEER HAVEN CV




                                                                                                3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NAPA AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14095 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1850 W
                                   DEER ORCHARD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14150 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14165 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DR
                                             FAWN HILL LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14200 S                                                                                                         14200 S                                                                   14200 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CEMETERY ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STONE FLY DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COUNTRY CLASSIC DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 YA L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14270 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       \



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   \
                                                                                                         3450 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bluffdale City Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PEACOCK MIDGE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          \                                                     GE D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MID
                                                                                                                                                                                                 VANTAGE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14400 S                                                                                                                                                                             14400 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FROST CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VIEW PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Phillip Gates Memorial Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2585 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2390 W
                                                                                                                  3400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CENTER POINT WY
                                                                                                                                         Ponderosa Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SP RING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14455 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1010 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C RE




                                                                                                                                                 BARTONS LN                                                                                                                                                          14550 S                                                        OAK POINT DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1515 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1700 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PERSCHON CIR                                           WANLASS WY
                                                                                            3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                         14600 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14600 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1630 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1690 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TE




                                                                                                                  BOULDEN BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SAGE CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        800 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              830 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1000 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SPENCER CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      850 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P CIR




                                                                                                                                                                       VERA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14700 S
                                                                                                                                                                         14750 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STATEHOOD DR
                                                                                                                                                            3200 W
                                                                                                                       CASTLE VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         130
                                                                                                                                                                              \                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ASPEN AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14805 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2890 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HERITAGECREST WY
                                                                                                                                     BLUE
                                                                                                                                          SPRI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14800 S
                                                                                                                           LLEY DR




                                                                                                                                                 NGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONCORD PARK DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                                                       LN                                                                                                                                                                                               14850 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                            14865 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ELK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KC
                                                                                                                                                                     \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           00
                                                                                                                                                                                   3030 W




                                                                                                                                                                     \
                                                                                                                                                                                                               \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2490 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ON

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MARM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2405 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AC CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          146

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pocket Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1800 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IR
                                                                                                                                                                     \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MOUNTAINSIDE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2475 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HO                                                                                                                        Mt. Jordan Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RS
                                                                                                                                                                                            2920 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MOUNTAINSIDE CIR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15090 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Parry Farms Baseball Fields                                                                                                                 EB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LV


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROCK HOLLOW DR                                                                     CO                                                                                                                                                                                             Bluffdale Heights Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             \



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ME                    OY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15170 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AD                     W     Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MU                 GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LE                      DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15220 S                                                                                                                                                           A   IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRO                         DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15250 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GU                 YD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GREENE FERN CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S                                                                            SM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15075
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INDIAN PAINT CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SILVERPOINT WY                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N   T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PINEHOLLOW LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AS              ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NT            R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SEC             IL D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RE               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SEA            IATD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TT                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SLU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PITCHFOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BLACK GOLD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WAR ADMIRAL DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    \                 Parry Farms Park/Detention Pond
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ER GU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LCH D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAN O WAR DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVER VIEW DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GUN STOCK DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PRAIRIE HILL DR




                  Legend
                  Existing Trails
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                            Regional
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I-15 SB FW




                                            Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            \




                                            Local
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SRD




                        \                   Equestrian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              \




                    ¾
                    ½                       Existing On-Street Bikeways
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1400 W




                                            City Parks: Existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 \    ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              167
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    67 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G STA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RIDIN




                                            City Parks: Planned
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SUN




                                            HOA Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JORDAN NARROWS RD



                                            HOA Open Space
                                            Salt Lake County parcels
                                            School District parcels
                                            Charter School parcels
                                            Camp Williams
                                            Streets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CAMP




                                            Parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WILLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S RD




                                            Canals                                                                                                                   This map is intended for planning and
                                                                                                                                                                     informational purposes and may not have been




                                                                                                                           E
                                            River                                                                                                                    prepared for, or be suitable for legal, engineering
                                                                                                                                                                     or surveying purposes.

                                            City boundary                                                                                                            The proposed trail routes are intended to illustrate
                                                                                                                                                                     general alignments, which will be contingent upon
                                                                                                                                                                     future design studies and successful negotiations
                                            County boundary                                                                                                          with property owners for access and use.

              0                          0.25                                0.5                                                     1                                                                                     1.5                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Miles




                     Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
                  City
                   Map 2:ofExisting
                            Bluffdale
                                    Trails                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ad o pte d 1 0/28/ 1 5
     Page left intentionally blank.




32
Bluffdale City Park




Located at the corner of 14400 South and 2200 West.

Nearby Recreational Resources
    •   Future Southwest Regional County Park
    •   Canal and trail
    •   Bluffdale Elementary

Amenities
    •   Approximately 183 parking stalls                       •      3 stone memorials / historical markers
    •   1 play structure (ages 5 to 12) on wood chip base      •      10 stone benches
    •   1 set monkey bars                                      •      2 lampposts
    •   2 grass volleyball courts                              •      4 fire hydrants
    •   2 basketball courts                                    •      4 sets of electrical outlets
    •   3 horseshoe pits                                       •      Old West town
    •   Restrooms (ADA accessible)                             •      Park sign
    •   2 water fountain stations (7 water fountains total)    •      Educational plant signs
    •   Pavilion with 16 picnic tables (ADA accessible)        •      3 bulletin sign stations
    •   10’ ADA asphalt path around perimeter of park          •      3 pet waste stations
    •   1 shade pergola on walking path                        •      Entrance water feature
    •   Ornamental plantings                                   •      3 large open irrigated grass areas (approx.
    •   Shade trees                                                   270’x250’ for the north area, 320’x220’ for the
                                                                      west area, and 500’x270’ for the east area)


Site Management / Design Recommendations
    •   Consider developing a comprehensive site master plan to address shifting uses and demands at park.
    •   Provide area lighting, including path lighting.
    •   Provide play area for ages 2 to 5 and swing set.
    •   Ensure clean-up and regular maintenance of the water feature, stone memorials, and planted areas at entrance.
    •   Ensure ongoing playground surface maintenance (establish schedule for maintaining wood chips).
    •   Ass paved parking behind existing Old West Village.
    •   Ensure maintenance and upkeep of Old West buildings and landscaping.
    •   Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing) & ongoing shrub and tree care (trimming, weeding).
    •   Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.



                                                              Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   33
Bluffdale Arena




Located at the corner of 14400 South and 2200 West.

Nearby Recreational Resources
     •   Future Southwest Regional County Park
     •   Canal and trail
     •   Bluffdale Elementary

Amenities
     •   Rodeo grounds with large gravel parking area          •     Ornamental plantings
         (approx. 2.2 acres)                                   •     Shade trees
     •   Pavilion and stage at rodeo grounds
     •   Large brick equipment facility with equipment
         yard



Site Management / Design Recommendations
     •   Consider developing a comprehensive site master plan to address shifting uses and demands at park.
     •   Create screening (i.e., vegetative) between the park and the equipment yard/facility and rodeo grounds.
     •   Add a trail connection to the adjacent elementary school.
     •   Provide area lighting, including path lighting.
     •   Ensure maintenance and upkeep of Old West buildings and landscaping.




34
Bluffdale Heights Park




Located at the corner of Regent Garden Lane (15100 South) and Inverleith Cove.

Nearby Recreational Resources
    •   Bonneville Shoreline Trail
    •   Independence Trail

Amenities
    •   On-street parking
    •   Small play structure (ages 5 to 12) on wood chip base
    •   ADA accessible Pavilion with 4 non-ADA picnic tables
    •   5’ ADA concrete path along edge of park
    •   1 water tap
    •   Trash receptacle
    •   Newly planted shade trees
    •   Irrigated lawn

Site Management / Design Recommendations
    •   Install water fountain. Note: Operation of the drinking fountain is seasonal so it may have to be turned off.
    •   Provide community bulletin and contact information for the city.
    •   Provide lighting.
    •   Provide ADA-accessible picnic table.
    •   Install bench(s) on periphery of play area.
    •   Ensure ongoing playground surface maintenance (establish schedule for maintaining wood chips).
    •   Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing).
    •   Ensure ongoing shrub and tree care (trimming, weeding).
    •   Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.




                                                              Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   35
Mt. Jordan Park (Independence)




Located in the Independence Subdivision at the corner of Freedom Point Way and Peace Drive.

Nearby Recreational Resources
     •   Independence Trail
     •   Bonneville Shoreline Trail
     •   2 pocket parks
     •   Charter school
     •   2 planned pocket parks
     •   Planned Independence Park

Amenities
     •   15 parking stalls + additional on-street parking
     •   Large play structure (ages 5 to 12) on wood chip base
     •   4 swings (1 toddler, 3 belt)
     •   Restroom (ADA accessible)
     •   1 set of water fountains (attached to restroom)
     •   2 ADA accessible pavilions with 4 non-ADA picnic tables each
     •   Trash receptacle
     •   2 water taps
     •   0.5 basketball courts
     •   3’ tall metal fencing near parking and ADA ramp
     •   Large open grass area
     •   Newly planted shade trees

Site Management / Design Recommendations
     •   Provide community bulletin and contact information for the city.
     •   Provide lighting.
     •   Install bench(s) on periphery of play area.
     •   Provide play area for ages 2 to 5.
     •   Ensure ongoing playground surface maintenance (establish schedule for maintaining wood chips).
     •   Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing).
     •   Ensure ongoing shrub and tree care (trimming, weeding).
     •   Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.


36
Phillip Gates Memorial Park




Located at south end of Royal Coachman Drive, just west of the Denver & Rio Grande Western Railroad.

Nearby Recreational Resources
    •   Springview Farms Trail and natural area
    •   Jordan River Parkway Trail
    •   Jordan River

Amenities
    •   23 parking stalls                                     •      2 benches
    •   Large play structure (age 5 to 12) on wood chip       •      2 park signs (one on north side, one on south
        base                                                         side)
    •   6 swings (2 toddler, 4 belt)                          •      9’ ADA asphalt path around perimeter of park
    •   2 mini back-hoes (play equipment)                            (portions are 20’ to accommodate emergency
                                                                     vehicles)
    •   Restroom (ADA accessible)
                                                              •      Pond with boat launch
    •   Water fountain (attached to restroom)
                                                              •      Swale designed to mimic a stream
    •   Pavilion (ADA accessible) with 6 picnic tables
                                                              •      Formal plantings
    •   3 lampposts
                                                              •      Ornamental and shade trees
    •   3 picnic tables with checkerboards
                                                              •      Irrigated lawn


Site Management / Design Recommendations
    •   Add additional parking on the south end to create a stronger public connection to neighborhoods and the
        Springview Farms Trail, trailhead, and surrounding natural area. (Access can be a problem at south end.)
    •   Increase the natural appearance of the channel by slightly modifying the alignment, removing the large riprap,
        and incorporating native plant materials.
    •   Install a bridge over the channel to eliminate the visual and functional barrier it creates.
    •   Provide ADA-accessible picnic table(s).
    •   Control invasive plant species in the pond area and replace with native plant materials.
    •   Plant additional shade trees (choose large-growing species).
    •   Ensure ongoing playground surface maintenance (establish schedule for maintaining wood chips).
    •   Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing).
    •   Ensure ongoing shrub and tree care (trimming, weeding).
    •   Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.



                                                             Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   37
Parry Farms Baseball Fields




Located on Rock Hollow Drive.

Nearby Recreational Resources
     •   Parry Farms Spur Trail
     •   Parry Farms Park/Detention Pond
     •   Jordan River Parkway Trail

Amenities
     •   104 parking stalls
     •   2 softball/baseball fields with bleachers and grass seating options
     •   Restrooms and concessions building (ADA accessible)
     •   3 picnic tables
     •   Irrigated lawn

Site Management / Design Recommendations
     •   Plant shade trees.
     •   Install a play area with adjacent benches for adults.
     •   Provide ADA-accessible picnic table(s).
     •   Consider installing fly-ball safety netting to protect bleachers and concession areas.
     •   Ensure ongoing maintenance and care of infields and ballfield infrastructure.
     •   Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing).
     •   Ensure ongoing shrub and tree care (trimming, weeding).
     •   Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.




38
Ponderosa Park




Located on Bueler Circle.

Nearby Recreational Resources
    •    Southwest Regional County Park
    •    Bluffdale City Park
    •    Ten Sleep Circle Park

Amenities
    •    8 parking stalls
    •    1 adjacent street light
    •    ADA accessible covered picnic table
    •    Grass

Site Management / Design Recommendations
    •    Install play structure.
    •    Provide ADA seating at covered picnic table.
    •    Plant shade trees along western edge of park.
    •    Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing).
    •    Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.
    •    Provide trash receptacle.




                                                            Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   39
Ten Sleep Circle Park




Located at the corner of 2700 West and Ten Sleep Circle.

Nearby Recreational Resources
     •   Southwest Regional County Park
     •   Bluffdale City Park
     •   Ponderosa Park

Amenities
     •   On-street parking
     •   Small play structure (ages 5 to 12) on pea gravel base
     •   5’ ADA concrete path along edge of park
     •   Irrigated lawn
     •   Shade trees

Site Management / Design Recommendations
     •   Provide ADA-accessible picnic table.
     •   Provide ADA path to play area.
     •   Provide lighting.
     •   Install bench(s) on periphery of play area.
     •   Ensure ongoing playground surface maintenance (replace pea gravel with wood chip play surface and establish
         schedule for maintaining).
     •   Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing).
     •   Ensure ongoing shrub and tree care (trimming, weeding).
     •   Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.




40
Pocket Park #1 (West)




Located in the Independence Subdivision, along the Independence Trail.

Nearby Recreational Resources
    •    Independence Trail
    •    Bonneville Shoreline Trail
    •    Mt. Jordan Park
    •    Pocket park
    •    2 additional planned pocket parks
    •    Planned Independence Park

Amenities
    •    10’ ADA asphalt trail (Independence Trail)
    •    Irrigated lawn
    •    Formal tree plantings

Site Management / Design Recommendations
    •    Install bench(s).
    •    Install covered picnic table with ADA access.
    •    Provide lighting.
    •    Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing).
    •    Ensure ongoing shrub and tree care (trimming, weeding).
    •    Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.
    •    Provide trash receptacle.




                                                            Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   41
Pocket Park #2 (East)




  Located in the Independence Subdivision, along the Independence Trail.

Nearby Recreational Resources
     •   Independence Trail
     •   Bonneville Shoreline Trail
     •   Mt. Jordan Park
     •   Pocket park
     •   2 additional planned pocket parks
     •   Planned Independence Park

Amenities
     •   Children’s play area (ages 2 to 5) on wood chip base
     •   10’ ADA asphalt trail (Independence Trail)
     •   Irrigated lawn
     •   Formal tree plantings

Site Management / Design Recommendations
     •   Install bench(s) on periphery of play area.
     •   Ensure regular debris removal around play equipment.
     •   Ensure ongoing playground surface maintenance (establish schedule for maintaining wood chips).
     •   Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing).
     •   Ensure ongoing shrub and tree care (trimming, weeding).
     •   Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.




42
Independence Trail




Located in the Independence Subdivision.

Nearby Recreational Resources
    •   Bonneville Shoreline Trail
    •   Mt. Jordan Park
    •   2 pocket parks
    •   2 additional planned pocket parks
    •   Planned Independence Park

Amenities
    •   10’ ADA asphalt trail

Site Management / Design Recommendations
    •   Install benches/resting locations in shaded areas along trail.
    •   Install periodic lighting along trail.
    •   Install mileage markers.




                                                               Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   43
Bonneville Shoreline Trail




Located adjacent to Porter Rockwell Boulevard.

Nearby Recreational Resources
     •   Independence Trail
     •   Mt. Jordan Park
     •   Bluffdale Heights Park

Amenities
     •   10’ ADA asphalt trail
     •   Formal plantings

Site Management / Design Recommendations
     •   Install periodic benches/resting locations along trail.
     •   Install mileage markers.




44
Springview Farms Trail




Located in the Springview Farms Subdivision.

Nearby Recreational Resources
    •   Springview Farms Trailhead
    •   Jordan River Parkway Trail
    •   Jordan River

Amenities
    •   9’ ADA asphalt trail
    •   Large open natural area

Site Management / Design Recommendations
    •   Install periodic benches/resting locations along trail.
    •   Provide lighting.
    •   Install mileage markers.




                                                                  Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   45
Parry Farms Park / Detention Pond




Located on Iron Horse Boulevard.

Nearby Recreational Resources
     •   Parry Farms Spur Trail
     •   Parry Farms Baseball Fields
     •   Jordan River Parkway Trail
     •   Jordan River

Amenities
     •   Shade trees (concentrated on the north)
     •   Irrigated lawn
     •   Detention pond

Site Management / Design Recommendations
     •   Conduct site master plan to determine best use and layout for park improvements.
     •   Install play structure.
     •   Provide shade trees throughout park.
     •   Clearly delineate path around park as a trail.
     •   Clean up riprap and armoring for primary detention pond and use plantings to naturalize.
     •   Create a connection to the Jordan River Parkway Trail.
     •   Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing).
     •   Ensure ongoing shrub and tree care (trimming, weeding).
     •   Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.




46
Parry Farms Spur Trail




Located adjacent to Iron Horse Boulevard.

Nearby Recreational Resources
    •    Parry Farms Park/Detention Pond
    •    Parry Farms Baseball Fields
    •    Jordan River Parkway Trail
    •    Jordan River

Amenities
    •    10’ ADA asphalt trail

Site Management / Design Recommendations
    •    Install periodic benches/resting locations along trail.




                                                                   Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   47
Palisade Acres Detention Pond




Located on 13800 South, just north of Lincolnshire Court.

Nearby Recreational Resources
     •   Southwest Regional County Park

Amenities
     •   Large open grass area
     •   Path to subdivision south of park.

Site Management / Design Recommendations
     •   Conduct site master plan to determine best use and layout for park improvements.
     •   Install covered picnic table(s).
     •   Provide lighting.
     •   Provide trail around detention area.
     •   Install play structure and swing set.
     •   Plant shade trees along western edge of park.
     •   Ensure ongoing lawn care (mowing, weeding, fertilizing).
     •   Ensure ongoing irrigation system maintenance.




48
Goals & Objectives




                                           5
   Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   49
Goals & Objectives
Overview
The goals and objectives described in this chapter define the park and recreation services that Bluffdale aims
to provide. These goals and objectives were derived from input received throughout the planning process,
from city staff and officials, the Parks Advisory Committee, community members and stakeholders.



Goals & Objectives
Taken together, the goals and objectives provide a framework for the Parks, Trails, Recreation and Open
Space Plan. A goal is a general statement describing an outcome the City wishes to provide. Goals typically
do not change over time unless community values shift. Objectives are more specific, measurable statements
that describe a means to achieving the stated goals. Objectives may change over time. Recommendations are
specific actions intended to implement and achieve the goals and objectives and are contained in subsequent
chapters of the Plan.


Community Involvement & Information
Goal 1: Encourage and support public involvement in park and recreation issues.
1.1    Formalize and support the Parks Committee as the forum for public discussion of parks and
       recreation issues.
1.2    Involve residents and stakeholders in park and recreation facility planning and design and recreation
       program development in order to solicit community input, facilitate project understanding and
       engender public support.
1.3    Use a variety of methods and media to publicize and increase resident awareness about recreational
       opportunities available in local neighborhoods and citywide.
1.4    Prepare, publish and promote a park and trail facilities map for online and print distribution to
       highlight existing and proposed sites and routes.
1.5    Survey, review and publish local park and recreation preferences, needs and trends at least once every
       five years to stay current with community attitudes and interests.
1.6    Conduct periodic joint sessions between the Parks Committee and other standing City boards, such
       as the Planning Commission, and with the City Council to improve coordination and discuss policy
       matters of mutual interest pertaining to recreational resources, opportunities and funding.
1.7    Promote volunteer park improvement, beautification and clean-up projects from a variety of
       individuals, service clubs, churches and businesses.
50
Parks & Open Space
Goal 2: Acquire and develop a high-quality, diversified system of parks, recreation facilities and open
spaces that provides equitable access to all residents.
2.1      Proactively seek parkland identified within this Plan, in both developed and undeveloped areas, to
         secure suitable locations for new parks and open spaces to serve current and future residents.
         2.1A Strive to provide a distributed network of parks, such that all city residents live within one-half
              mile of a developed park.
         2.1B   Fulfill park and trail service standards consistent with the adopted Impact Fee Facilities Plan,
                while also aiming to provide varied, geographically distributed and high-quality amenities
                consistent with the community’s recreational interests.
2.2      Identify and prioritize lands for inclusion in the parks and greenway system based on factors such as
         contribution to level of service, connectivity, or recreational opportunities for residents.
2.3      Pursue low-cost and/or non-purchase options to preserve open space, including the use of
         conservation easements, flexible subdivisions and development agreements.



Trails
Goal 3: Develop a network of shared-use trails and corridors to enable connectivity between parks,
neighborhoods and public amenities.
3.1      Coordinate with neighboring jurisdictions, Salt Lake County and Utah County to provide a regional
         trail network along and connecting to the Jordan River and coordinated trail alignments that provide
         continuous walking and biking access between parks and other key destinations.
3.2      Work with local agencies, canal districts, utilities and private landholders to secure trail easements and
         access to open space for trail connections.
3.3      Expand the system of off-street trails by utilizing parks, utility corridors, canals and other publicly
         accessible areas as appropriate.
3.4      Re-evaluate and assess the suitability of existing trail easements for use and functionality as pedestrian
         or bridle trail corridors.
3.5      Provide east-west trail connections across Bluffdale to connect the regional park, City Park and the
         Jordan River Parkway Trail and extend the Bonneville Shoreline Connector.
3.6      Consider options to formalize and maintain a network of bridle trails, to include the usage of canal
         maintenance roads.
3.7      Integrate the siting of proposed trail segments into the development review process; require
         development projects along designated trail routes to be designed to incorporate trail segments as part
         of the project.
3.8      Provide trailhead accommodations, as appropriate, to include parking, wayfinding signage, restrooms
         and other amenities.



                                                              Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   51
Maintenance & Operations
Goal 4: Provide a parks and recreation system that is efficient to maintain and operate, provides a high
level of user comfort, safety, and aesthetic quality, and protects capital investments.
4.1    Maintain all parks and facilities in a manner that keeps them in safe and attractive condition; repair or
       remove damaged components immediately upon identification.
4.2    Maintain an inventory of assets and their condition; update the inventory as assets are added, updated
       or removed from the system and periodically assess the condition of park and recreation facilities and
       infrastructure.
4.3    Consider the maintenance costs and staffing levels associated with acquisition, development, or
       renovation of parks or natural open space areas, and adjust the annual operating budget accordingly
       for adequate maintenance funding of the system expansion.



Design
Goal 5: Plan and design high-quality play structures, trails, parks and recreation facilities that facilitate
their care and maintenance.
5.1    When developing new facilities or redeveloping existing facilities, review and consider the projected
       maintenance and operations costs prior to initiating design development.
5.2    Design and maintain parks and facilities to offer universal accessibility for residents of all physical
       capabilities, skill levels and age as appropriate; assess planned and existing parks and trails for
       compliance with the newly adopted Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Standards for Accessible
       Design for requisite upgrades. Include considerations from the U.S. Access Board on the Architectural
       Barriers Act Accessibility Standards for guidelines for outdoor areas on federal land or federally-
       funded projects.
5.3    Incorporate low impact design practices into the design, planning and rehabilitation of new and
       existing facilities; consider the use of native vegetation for landscaping in parks to minimize
       maintenance requirements.
5.4    Create illustrative master plans for park development or redevelopment, as appropriate, to take
       maximum advantage of grant or other funding opportunities.
5.5    Develop and implement minimum design and development standards for park and recreation
       amenities within private developments to ensure acceptable levels of improvement, address community
       facility needs, equipment types, public safety, accessibility and installation and maintenance
       procedures.
5.6    Standardize the use of graphics and signage to establish a consistent identity at all parks and facilities.
5.7    Standardize park furniture (such as trash cans, tables, benches, pavilions, fencing) and irrigation
       equipment to reduce inventory costs and improve appearance of, and maintenance consistency within,
       parks.
5.8    Maximize the multiple-use aspects of detention facilities, utility easements, etc. by preserving
       and enhancing the natural and ecological value of these lands, while facilitating pedestrian access,
       recreational value or wildlife viewing.

52
Concurrency
Goal 6: Ensure that new park and recreational facilities are provided in concert with new development.
6.1   Ensure that new residential development provides funds or parkland for future park development
      consistent with the City’s standards for parks and facilities.
6.2   Require that the development of recreational amenities conforms to the City’s minimum guidelines
      and the general needs outlined in this Plan.
6.3   Require plan review, final inspection and acceptance (including as-built drawings) of all developer-
      provided park projects installed per City guidelines and standards.
6.4   Accept only those parks and facilities that are consistent with the City’s Parks, Trails, Recreation and
      Open Space Plan and adopted park standards.



Recreation Programming
Goal 7: Facilitate and promote a varied and inclusive suite of recreation programs that accommodate a
spectrum of ages, interests and abilities.
7.1   Leverage City resources by forming and maintaining partnerships with other public, non-profit and
      private recreation providers to deliver recreation services and secure access to existing facilities for
      community recreation.
7.2   Partner with the Jordan School District to maximize public use of recreation facilities on school sites,
      especially athletic fields and gymnasiums.
7.3   Partner with Salt Lake County and other stakeholders to provide regional facilities, such as a
      recreation center.
7.4   Coordinate with public, private and non-profit providers, such as organized sports leagues, to plan for
      projects to expand facilities for athletic fields.
7.5   Conduct a feasibility study to explore the potential and financial requirements to construct and
      operate a community recreation center.



Administration & Management
Goal 8: Support and promote the Parks Committee and the Department of Public Works to the
community, stakeholders, partners and City Council.
8.1   Provide sufficient financial and staff resources to maintain the overall parks and recreation system to
      high standards.
8.2   Maximize operational efficiency to provide the greatest public benefit for the resources expended,
      including the consideration of contracted services.
8.3   Periodically review and update the park impact fee rates.
8.4   Pursue alternative funding options and dedicated revenues for the acquisition and development

                                                          Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   53
      of parks and facilities, such as private donation, sponsorships, partnerships, state and federal grant
      sources, among others. Place priority on maximizing grants and other external sources of funding, or
      inter-agency cooperative arrangements, to develop the City’s park resources.
8.5   Work to develop information packets that promote City services to tourists and new residents.
8.6   Inform all levels of staff of the direction of the Plan and allow for staff input, encouraging buy-in and
      knowledge from all staff members.
8.7   Assign responsibilities, resources and time frames in annual work plans as necessary to enable progress
      on the goals and policies of the Plan.
8.8   Promote professional development opportunities that strengthen the core skills and engender greater
      commitment from staff, Committee members and key volunteers, to include trainings, materials and/
      or affiliation with the National Recreation & Park Association (NRPA) and the Utah Recreation and
      Parks Association (URPA).




54
Needs Assessment




                                          6
  Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   55
Needs Assessment
The planning process culminated in articulating the community’s needs for, and vision of, Bluffdale’s park
and recreation system. This chapter assesses park and recreation activity, facility and programming needs
and priorities. It relies heavily on public input – including survey results, stakeholder discussions and public
meetings – as well as site inventories and state and national recreation trends. The chapter concludes with
a discussion of specific, local needs and how they might be considered within the broader parks, trails and
recreation system.
By considering the location, size and number of facilities by type and use, along with community interests
and priorities, this Plan evaluates the latent and potential demand for park and recreation amenities. This
assessment provides a foundation for the five-year Capital Improvement Plan (see Chapter 8), which
identifies and prioritizes upgrades, improvements and expansions consistent with the needs expressed by
residents.



Recreation Trends
Over the past decade, park and recreation management has trended toward outcome-based management,
which reflects the effect on quality of life of those who participate or benefit from parks and recreation
opportunities. The level of subsidy for programs has been declining, and more “enterprise” activities, such
as aquatics and adult sports, are being developed, thereby allowing the subsidy to be used where deemed
appropriate. Agencies across the United States are increasing revenue production and cost recovery. Pricing
is often done by peak, off-peak and off-season rates. Agencies are often structured into service divisions
for athletics, seniors, facilities, parks, planning and the like, rather than by geographic unit, and they are
partnering with private, public and non-profit groups.
Generally, park and recreation professionals face many challenges including:
     ■   Doing more with less, requiring partnership development
     ■   Partnering between non-profit and public forms of service
     ■   Increasing the quality and diversity of services
     ■   Moving toward a more business-like model, while not competing directly with the private sector
     ■   Increasing parks and open space versus a decreasing ability to maintain it
     ■   Providing support for the socially and economically disadvantaged through programs in areas such as
         childcare, nutrition, etc.
     ■   Increasing responsibility for measurement and evaluation
In 2013, the National Parks and Recreation Association (NRPA) issued its first report using PRORAGIS,
a geographic information system, to establish industry trends. The 2013 report gathered data from 383 park
and recreation agencies across the country and compared changes over the last three years. According to the
   	    van der Smissen


56
report, park and recreation agencies typically provide management of park and open space lands and operate
recreational facilities and programs. Within these areas of responsibility, some growth occurred from 2010 to
2012 among the agencies participating in the survey, including conducting major special events, maintaining
public jurisdiction areas and administering community gardens.
The NRPA report indicated that public park and recreation service providers continue to suffer from reduced
funding levels. Agencies receiving higher funding levels generally experienced greater reductions, while
smaller agencies (in smaller communities) were more stable over the last three years. Recreation programming
experienced a significant drop in attendance from 2010 to 2011. While a slight rebound had begun in 2012,
the NRPA 2013 report indicates that program offerings have declined in every major category since 2010.



Utah State Outdoor Recreation Trends
The 2014 Utah State Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Planning (SCORP) document guides decision-
makers in better understanding statewide recreation issues and is required to help maintain Utah’s eligibility
for federal Land and Water Conservation Fund dollars, which are used to fund state grant programs. Grants
allocated through SCORP help meet an array of state and local entities’ outdoor-recreation objectives,
including plans and programs of the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget, Utah Outdoor
Recreation Office, Utah Quality Growth Commission, Utah State Parks, public tourism agencies and other
organizations.
The SCORP included a resident survey to assess interest in outdoor activities by frequency, as shown below
in Figure 9. Broad similarities exist between the most popular statewide activities and those documented in
the community survey, such as the popularity of walking/hiking and picnicking. Other highlights from the
SCORP include the following:
   ■ Outdoor recreation in Utah is extremely important throughout the state. Public opinion surveys
     showed that about 50% or more of residents in each area of the state rate recreation as “Extremely
     Important.” Most residents travel more than 25 miles to participate in recreational activities, indicating
     that it’s worth the drive.
   ■ Walking for pleasure or exercise, hiking or backpacking, and camping were consistently mentioned as
     recreational activities that residents participate in most regularly.
   ■ Pools or aquatic centers, motorized trail areas for ATVs and snowmobiles, and improved camping
     areas are the most needed facilities or facility improvements throughout the state of Utah.
   ■ Utah residents are generally satisfied with city parks and natural areas.




                                                           Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   57
  Weighted statewide survey results are illustrated in Figure 7. The three most mentioned activities
  were hiking or backpacking, camping, and fishing, followed by motorized water sports, snow sports
  (snowmobiling, skiing, snowboarding, etc.), and ATV riding/4-wheeling.

   Figure 10. Statewide Outdoor Recreation Participation (2014 Utah SCORP)




  Figure 7.         Responses to three most common recreation activities statewide (percent of
Additionally, incorporated
                respondents cities acrosseach
                            mentioning    Utah  participated in a municipal survey to identify local recreation
                                              activity).
issues. Figure 10 highlights the findings and shows that ball fields and courts were the new facilities most
needed throughout the state, followed by trails and community or recreation centers.
  Later in the survey, respondents were prompted regarding their participation in 20 specific activities
  over the previous 12 months; Table 6 summarizes responses to those questions.




                                                                24




58
   Figure 11. Recreation Priorities from Municipal Survey (2014 Utah SCORP)

                                                     1st Priority            2nd Priority           3rd Priority


              New Ball Fields / Courts                              29                                     21            15


              Trails (General / Other)           10                     13                  15


   Community or Recreation Centers                       17                        11           7


                           New Parks                   14                    11             8


                 Other New Facilities            8              7              12


           Pools or Aquatic Centers              7              9        3


                       Walking Trails        6              6       4


        Other Facility Improvements      2       5       3


                         Biking Trails       4        3 1


     Park Additions & Improvements           4        3 1


              Playground Equipment 1 3 2


                      Other (General)        4


                         Hiking Trails   2 2

                                         0                  10                20            30              40     50         60     70

  Figure 9.          Statewide recreation facility needs, municipal survey.

The 2015 Outdoor Participation Report
According to 2015 Outdoor Participation Report, published by the Outdoor Foundation in Boulder,
Colorado, participation in outdoor recreation, team sports and indoor fitness activities vary by an individual’s
age. Gender also plays a role in determining behaviors and participation trends. Figure 11 illustrates the
three-year trend changes by major activity.
                                      31    Recent trend highlights include the following:
    ■     Outdoor activities are popular among children, especially among boys ages 11 to 15.
    ■     Participation rates drop for both males and females from ages 16 to 20. These rates climb back up
          slightly for females into their early 20’s and males late 20’s before gradually declining throughout life.
    ■     Indoor fitness becomes the preferred activity among young women ages 16 to 20 and remains the most
          popular form of activity. Males, however, favor outdoor activities until they are age 66 and older.
    ■     Almost one-quarter of all outdoor enthusiasts participated in outdoor activities at least twice per week.
    ■     Running, including jogging and trail running, was the most popular activity among Americans when
          measured by number of participants and by number of total annual outings.
    ■     Walking for fitness is the most popular crossover activity.
    ■     The biggest motivator for outdoor participation was getting exercise.




                                                                                                                    Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   59
   Figure 12. 3-Year Change in Outdoor Recreation Participation of Youth (6-24) (2014 Outdoor Foundation)

   40%

   35%     34%
                                                  31%
   30%

   25%
                                                                      19%
   20%
                                                                                                     16%
                                                                                                                       15%
   15%                                                                                                                                          13%                        13%
                                                                                                                                                                                                    10%
   10%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4%              4%
     5%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3%                        2%        2%             1%             1%              1%         0%
     0%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ͳ1%                              Ͳ1%                          Ͳ1%
     Ͳ5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ͳ4%            Ͳ5%
   Ͳ10%
                                                                                                     Bicycling(BMX)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bicycling(Road/PavedSurface)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bicycling(Mountain/NonͲPavedSurface)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WildlifeViewing


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Camping(RV)
           Triathlon(NonͲTraditional/OffRoad)




                                                                      Triathlon(Traditional/Road)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kayaking(Recreational)
                                                  StandUpPaddling




                                                                                                                                                Boardsailing/Windsurfing




                                                                                                                                                                                                    TrailRunning




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sailing




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Birdwatching




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Running/Jogging
                                                                                                                       Kayaking(WhiteWater)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Canoeing
                                                                                                                                                                           Kayaking(Sea/Touring)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Climbing(Sport/Indoor/Bouldering)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Hiking(Day)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fishing(Fly)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Fishing(Freshwater/Other)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Camping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Skateboarding




The 2015 State of the Industry Report
Recreation Management magazine’s 2015 State of the Industry Report listed the top 10 program options most
commonly planned for addition over the next three years, along with the frequency (in parentheses) noted by
survey participants:
     1.  Mind body / balance programs (25.2%)
     2. Fitness programs (24.9%)
     3. Educational programs (24.3%)
     4. Day camps & summer camps (22.8%)
     5. Environmental education (21.5%)
     6. Teen programming (20.4%)
     7. Adult sports teams (19.4%)
     8. Active older adult programs (19.4%)
     9. Holidays & other special events (19.1%)
     10. Nutrition & diet counseling (17.4%)

For most programming types, community centers are the ones most likely to be planning to add such
programs. There are a few exceptions. Parks are most likely to be planning to add: environmental education;
sports tournaments or races; individual sports activities; and water sports.
The same report indicated park systems that are planning to add features to their facilities in the next three
years list their top five planned amenities as:


60
   ■   Playgrounds
   ■   Park shelters such as picnic areas and gazebos
   ■   Park restroom structures
   ■   Outdoor sports courts for basketball, tennis, etc.
   ■   Bike trails



Sports Trends: National Sporting Goods Association (2013)
The National Sporting Goods Association (NSGA) reported on participation levels in 47 sports indicating
that 32 sports experienced growth during 2012. Highlights from the 2013 NSGA participation survey
include:
   ■   Indoor gaming activities increased by an average of 11%.
   ■   Fitness sports each increased about 5%.
   ■   Snow sports had the steepest decrease in participation level in 2012, dropping an average of 11%.
   ■   Shooting sports with firearms experienced more growth: hunting with firearms increased more than
       18% with female participation up nearly 29%; target shooting with live ammunition increased by
       10.9% with female participation increasing by over 27%.
   ■   Team sports showed mixed results with participation lagging in basketball, baseball, ice hockey and
       soccer and increases in lacrosse, softball and volleyball.
   ■   Tackle football experienced the largest team sport drop of nearly 13% decline in participation. Over
       half the decline was in the 7-11 age group of those who might participate on an infrequent basis.
   ■   Female participation in 40 of the 47 sports/activities has increased compared to only 11 sports showing
       increased male participation.

Overall, the trend shows that participation in many sports is rebounding with some sports continuing to
struggle to attract new participation.



National Survey on Recreation and the Environment (2012)
The National Survey on Recreation and the Environment (NSRE) is a comprehensive survey that has been
collecting data and producing reports about the recreation activities, environmental attitudes and natural
resource values of Americans since the 1980s. The NSRE core focus is on outdoor activity participation and
personal demographics. The most recent 2012 NSRE reports the total number of people participating in
outdoor activities between 2000 and 2007 grew by 4.4% while the number of days of participation increased
by approximately 25%. Walking for pleasure grew by 14% and continues to lead as the top favorite outdoor
activity.
Nature-based activities, those associated with wildlife and natural settings, showed a discernible growth in the
number of people (an increase in 3.1% participation rate) and the number of days of participation. American’s
participation in nature-based outdoor recreation is increasing with viewing, photographing, or otherwise
observing nature clearly measured as the fastest growing type of nature-based recreation activity.




                                                            Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   61
Outdoor Industries Association
The 2013 Outdoor Industries Association produces reports on the outdoor recreation economy for the entire
country and for each state. The most recent OIA report reveals that at least 82% of Utah residents participate
in outdoor recreation each year. This figure does not include the participants in hunting, fishing and wildlife
viewing which are estimated separately. “Americans want and deserve access to a variety of quality places to
play and enjoy the great outdoors. Outdoor recreation can grow jobs and drive the economy if we manage
and invest in parks, waters and trails as an interconnected system designed to sustain economic dividends
for America.” In the State of Utah, outdoor recreation generates $12 billion in consumer spending, creates
112,000 direct jobs and results in $856 million in state and local tax revenue. Preserving access to outdoor
recreation protects the economy, the businesses, the communities and the people who depend on the ability to
play outside.



Community Interests & Priorities
Bluffdale’s residents are very supportive of improvements to the City’s parks, recreational amenities, trails
and open spaces. A significant majority support acquiring and developing additional neighborhood and
community parks, as well as improving existing park amenities and maintenance. Residents value the City’s
trail system, particularly the Jordan River Trail, and are interested in expanding trail connections to both local
and regional recreational opportunities – for walking, biking and equestrian use.

Parks
New Park Acquisition & Development
A high percentage of Bluffdale residents – more than eight in ten – feel that the City should place more
emphasis on the development of neighborhood parks within walking distance of homes. A similar percentage
feel the same toward the development of large, multi-use community parks. Few residents feel the City
should emphasize the development of small pocket parks or not pursue new park development at all
(approximately 19% and 14%, respectively).

   Figure 13. Support for Different Park Types
                                                             Most Supported              2nd Most Supported


      TheCityshouldplacemoreemphasison
       thedevelopmentofsmall(2Ͳ5acres)
        neighborhoodparkswithinwalking                                                                                  85%
        distanceofhomesandwithlimited
                recreationalfacilities.

    TheCityshouldplacemoreemphasison
    thedevelopmentoflarge(morethan10
   acres)multiͲusecommunityparksthatyou                                                                               83%
   wouldgenerallyneedtodrivetoandwitha
           greaternumberoffacilities.

     TheCityshouldplacemoreemphasison
     thedevelopmentofverysmall(lessthan
     1/2acre)pocketparksortotlotsinyour                     19%
     immediateneighborhoodgearedfor2Ͳ3
                    yearolds.



    Neither.NonewneighborhoodormultiͲ
   usecommunityparksshouldbedeveloped.                      14%

                                                  0.0%   10.0%   20.0%   30.0%   40.0%     50.0%   60.0%   70.0%   80.0%   90.0%   100.0%


62
Park Amenities
Bluffdale residents consistently rated walking and biking paths, playgrounds and picnic areas or shelters as
some of the park and recreation amenities that are most used and most important to their household. In
terms of survey responses, women utilized walking trails and playgrounds more than men. Respondents
between the ages of 35 and 44 had slightly higher than average usage of baseball and soccer fields, and those
under 35 years old utilized playgrounds and basketball courts more than the average responses.

  Figure 14. Amenities Residents Have Used Most over Past Year
                              Used Most       Used 2nd Most   Used 3rd Most


       Walkingpath/trail                                                                        56%
              Playground                                                                        54%
           Picnicpavilion                                                        38%
          Rodeogrounds                                         26%
           OldWesttown                               18%
           Baseballfields                   8%
        Basketballcourts                  8%
             Soccerfields            6%
   Grassvolleyballcourts          2%
           Horseshoepits           1%

                     Other          1%
                             0.0%         10.0%      20.0%      30.0%         40.0%     50.0%     60.0%




In addition, a majority of residents expressed a desire for more of these amenities (walking paths, playgrounds
and pavilions) within the park system. These rates were the highest of all amenities surveyed and higher than
national averages. Many residents would also like to see additional restrooms and drinking fountains at City
of Bluffdale parks. Survey respondents between the ages of 35 and 44 had greater interest in youth soccer
fields and a spray park/splashpad than the average. Respondents over 65 had stronger interest in pavilions,
and respondents between the ages of 55 and 64 had stronger interest in equestrian trails. Residents expressed
a moderate desire for additional seasonal park amenities, such as sledding hills (50%) and ice rinks (29%).
However, fewer residents (less than 10%) rated these amenities as the most important park and recreation
amenity.




                                                                                        Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   63
  Figure 15. Park and Recreation Amenities Noted as Most Important to Residents
                  Most Important          2nd Most Important           3rd Most Important        4th Most Important

         WalkingandBikingTrails                                                                                         47%
                       Playgrounds                                                                                41%
                          Swimming                                                               32%
            SprayPark/SplashPad                                                    26%
                  TrailsalongRiver                                               25%
          PicnicShelters/Pavilions                                              23%
                    RodeoGrounds                                          19%
                       NatureTrails                                      18%
           OutdoorTennisCourts                             13%
                  EquestrianTrails                        12%
         CommunityFishingPond                           11%
     YouthBaseball/SoftballFields                       11%
                       SleddingHill                     10%
                     Amphitheater                  7%
        OutdoorBasketballCourts                 6%
         IndoorBasketballCourts                 6%
               YouthSoccerFields               5%
                          SkatePark            4%
                            IceRink           4%
             Boating/RiverAccess              4%
                   DiscGolfCourse            4%
              AdultSoftballFields            4%
                AdultSoccerFields           2%
                              Other             4%
                                       0.0%   5.0%   10.0%     15.0%     20.0%   25.0%   30.0%    35.0%   40.0%    45.0%   50.0%




Sports Courts & Fields
Residents who responded to the survey noted a need for additional outdoor tennis courts (31%), outdoor
and indoor basketball courts (30% and 26%, respectively), baseball and softball fields (27%), and soccer fields
(24%). However, fewer residents (between 5% and 13%) rated these facilities as the most important. City
residents may feel that additional sports courts and fields would be a positive addition to the community, but
that they are not as important as other recreational amenities.
The Jordan School District currently provides sports fields for sport leagues and clubs through rental
agreements. The District also has shared use agreements with Salt Lake County for use of school fields for
recreation leagues.

Water Access
Residents value connections to the Jordan River. Approximately 42% of residents expressed a need for
additional fishing areas and 24% for additional boating or river access.

Park Maintenance
Residents ranked the overall condition of Bluffdale parks and facilities as either excellent or good (87%
combined). Residents between the ages of 35 and 44 gave the highest “poor” rating (6.7%) of any of the age
groups. In general, residents are satisfied with the condition of parks and amenities, rating the condition of
Old West Town, soccer fields, playgrounds, picnic pavilions and walking paths as either good or excellent.
However, many residents (73%) feel the City should prioritize upgrading City Park - the City’s most visited
park. Many also support upgrading existing shelters and playgrounds (69%). One open house participant
noted a potential issue with irrigation/stormwater runoff pooling at Ponderosa Park.

Southwest Regional Park (Salt Lake County)
The City of Bluffdale does not currently have any developed regional parks. However, Southwest Regional
Park, an 80-acre county park located at 14000 South and 2700 West, is expected to open in Spring 2016.

64
When developed, this regional park will provide two multi-purpose sports fields, basketball, pickleball
and tennis courts, a play area, splash pad, open lawn area, a walking path, pavilions and restrooms. The
development of Southwest Regional Park offers an opportunity to provide highly desired recreational
amenities – more than six in ten residents would use the walking paths, playground, open lawn area, and
splash pad planned for the park.



Recreation Facilities & Programs
Recreation Facilities
Residents noted a desire for a recreation center and outdoor pool in Bluffdale. Nearly one-third of residents
said they considered a swimming pool the most important park amenity. Many residents currently use such
facilities in nearby cities. For example, 44% reported using the JL Sorenson Recreation Center in Herriman
at least once last year, 38% used the South Jordan Fitness and Aquatics Center, between 17% and 24% used
the South County Outdoor Pool in Riverton, the Marv Jenson Fitness and Recreation Center, the Draper
Outdoor Pool or the Riverton Senior Center.

  Figure 16. Frequency of Use of Nearby Recreation Centers

                         1-9 Times          10-24 Times       25+ Times   Never

         JLSorensonRecreationCenter(Herriman)      25         11 9               56

         SouthJordanFitnessandAquaticsCenter      26         6 6             62

                      CRHamiltonPark(Riverton)     18     5 9                69

   SaltLakeCountyEquestrianPark(SouthJordan)    20      6 5              70

            SouthCountyOutdoorPool(Riverton)      17     52             76

    C.R.HamiltonFamilySportsComplex(Riverton)    12 5 6                 76

       MarvJensonFitnessandRecreationCenter      17 33                 77

                             DraperOutdoorPool     14 3 2                82

                           RivertonSeniorCenter    11 22                85


Recreation Programs
Advisory committee members indicated that there is some community interest in recreation programs, such
as classes and fitness, and some interest in pickleball and volleyball.

Special Events
Bluffdale residents actively participate in and are satisfied with the City’s special events. Nearly 8 in ten
residents have participated in a City-sponsored event in the past year. Just over 60% participated in Old
West Days. Other special events respondents have participated in include: Rodeo (45%), Demolition Derby
(31%), and Movies in Park (30%). Approximately 20% of residents have participated in holiday events,
including Santa and the Lights, Halloween Trick or Treat and the Easter Egg Hunt. The vast majority (88%)
of residents thought that the quality of the events they have attended in the past year was either good or
excellent.
                                                                                       Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   65
Trails
Pedestrian & Bicycle Trails
Residents were very supportive of improvements to the City’s walking and biking paths and trails. In fact,
trail improvement and development enjoyed the highest level of resident support, with approximately three
out of four residents supporting such investments. The high support for trails also is consistent with the
statewide and national trends. Trail improvements were the highest priority for recreational improvements
among both survey respondents and open house attendees. Residents were particularly interested in trail
improvements that extend or connect to the Jordan River Trail, link to large parks and local destinations, and
create loops for walking, running and biking. Open house participants noted the need for a pedestrian and
bicycle trail along 14600 South.

Nature Trails
Approximately 56% of residents expressed a desire for more nature trails. Similarly, open house attendees
noted that trails are an opportunity for wildlife viewing and could benefit from interpretive signage.

Equestrian Trails
Approximately one-quarter of households in Bluffdale own a horse and many residents noted a need for
improved equestrian trails. Approximately 38% of residents are supportive of developing additional equestrian
trails, and 12% rated it the most important park amenity. Respondents between the ages of 55 and 64 had
greater interest in equestrian trails than the survey average. The City’s General Plan notes a need for a
comprehensive trail system, with sufficient trail lengths and loops to accommodate a 7 - 8 mile ride. Such
a system, with a connection to the Rodeo Grounds or other trailering sites, would allow recreational rides.
Open House participants also expressed a desire to connect the Rodeo Grounds to the Jordan River Trail,
improve the equestrian paths near 15000 South and 3200 West, and create access points from residential
developments to nearby trails.

Trail Improvement & Maintenance
Residents noted a few trail management and maintenance concerns. These concerns included the
encroachment of vegetation, particularly thorny vegetation, onto trails; the need for additional lighting; and
a desire for additional signage that indicates connections between trails. One resident encouraged the City to
create a new trail connection through Philip Gates Memorial Park to increase recreational use of the park and
reduce illicit activities.



Level of Service Assessment & Considerations
Parkland Gap Analysis
An assessment of the current park system, which includes the proximity of parks to residential neighborhoods
and the ability of residents to walk to their nearby park, allows for a geographic evaluation of park
acquisition needs. The analysis reviewed the locations and types of existing facilities, land use classifications,
transportation/access barriers and other factors as a means to identify preliminary acquisition target areas. In
reviewing parkland distribution and assessing opportunities to fill identified gaps, residentially zoned lands
were isolated, since neighborhood and community parks primarily serve these areas. Additionally, primary

66
and secondary service areas were used as follows:
    ■ Community Park: 1-mile walkable service area
    ■ Neighborhood parks: ½-mile walkable service areas
    ■ Pocket parks: ¼-mile walkable service areas

Map 3 on page 75 illustrates these distribution standards from existing, publicly-owned parks. It shows that
much of the central portion of the City has reasonable access to public parkland. However, significant gaps
appear in the western portions of the City, particularly west of the Utah Lake Distributing Canal corridor.
Other gaps exist in the northeast portions of the City and in the neighborhoods south of Iron Horse
Boulevard.



Level of Service Assessment
In addition to and in support of the gap analysis, a level of service (LOS) review was conducted as a means
to understand the distribution of parkland acreage by classification and for a broader measure of how well
the City is serving its residents with access to parks, trails and open space. Service standards are the adopted
guidelines or benchmarks the City is trying to attain with their parks system; the level of service is a snapshot
in time of how well the City is meeting the adopted standards.
At approximately 58 acres, the current, overall level of service for the City of Bluffdale is 5.8 acres per 1,000
people, which excludes the private homeowner association park and non-City open space lands, based on a
population estimate of 10,000 residents.
Recreation Lands
   Figure 17: Current Levels of Service by Park Type

                                     Previous             Current     Inventory                             Current LOS
    Type                                                                             Current LOS
                                     Standard            Inventory   (Developed)                       (Developed land only)
      CommunityPark                                       22.37        22.37          2.24ac/000            2.24ac/000
      NeighborhoodPark                                     8.23         8.23          0.82ac/000            0.82ac/000
                                     7.0ac/1000
      SpecialFacility                                     16.77        16.77          1.68ac/000            1.68ac/000
                                    (inaggregate)
      PocketPark                                           2.52         2.52          0.25ac/000            0.25ac/000
      OpenSpace                                            8.53                       0.85ac/000
                                       7 ac/000            58.42        49.89         5.8 ac/1000            5.0 ac/1000


Considering just the City’s developed parkland, the current level of service is 4.98 acres per 1,000 residents,
and focusing on only developed community, neighborhood and pocket parks results in a level of service of
3.3 acres per 1,000. Bluffdale’s 2014 General Plan and the 2013 Capital Facilities Plan shifted away from
an acres per thousand service standard and toward an aggregate monetary value of improvements for the
calculation of the park impact fee.
While numeric standards are a useful tool to assess how well the City is delivering park and recreation
services, the numeric values alone do not provide adequate recognition of the quality of the facilities or their
distribution. Also, the improvements value alone does not guide the location, size or type of amenities for the
growth of the parks and open space system; it merely accounts for acquisition and construction costs, without
addressing the recreational value of varied and dispersed amenities. For example, the development cost of
three large playgrounds may be roughly equivalent to one full-sized sport field, but they clearly provide
different types of experiences for different types of park system users.

                                                                         Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   67
Recognizing that the public ownership of a broad range of recreation lands is crucial to the livability of the
City, the simple use of an overall acreage standard does not match with the citizen input received during
this planning process. Residents were particularly interested in the availability of trails and active use parks
(neighborhood and community parks) within a reasonable distance from their homes. To more appropriately
target toward that desire, the service standard was assessed during the development of this Plan.
Unlike the transportation system or the water and sewer systems, the future development of the park
system has not, to-date, been guided by a set of design or development standards. When a developer plans
a subdivision, many facets of the street network are pre-defined. These include the width of right-of-way,
the width of street, width of sidewalk, street tree and planter strip details, pavement depth and crown, depth
of subsurface, among others. From these details, it is much easier for an engineer to not only know what
to design and build, but also what it will cost. The improvement value on a per foot basis for the street is
generally known and fixed. This has not been the case for parks, trails and open space.
Assuming the continued usage of an improvement value for the parks CFP and impact fee calculations,
this Plan recommends the development and implementation of specific guidelines for sizing, layout and
development of future parks and trails (also refer to the Design Continuity section of this chapter on page
75). Such guidelines will provide a framework for the growth of the park system and aim to ensure a balance
and variety of recreational amenities for the community.
     ■   Focus efforts on securing additional community park land. Community parks are often the ‘work horse’
         parks of a park system in that they provide the land base to accommodate a range of mixed recreational
         uses, park infrastructure (i.e., parking, restroom, etc) and the potential for sport fields.
     ■   Focus efforts on securing adequately-sized and usable neighborhood parklands. Neighborhood parks
         should be sized, designed and developed to accommodate a range of age groups and provide a focal
         point to a neighborhood.
     ■   Utilize survey data and recreational trends information to guide the selection of park amenities for
         neighborhood and community parks. Certain elements, such as playgrounds and pavilions, may
         be provided in every park, while other elements (e.g., sport courts, sledding hill, etc.) may be more
         dispersed across the City.
     ■   Consider segregating and accounting for open space and undeveloped lands separately from developed
         or active portions of the park system, such that the emphasis for future acquisitions or developer
         agreements is toward active, programmable and flexible park space.
     ■   The acceptance of open space (non-park) dedications from developers should be focused toward those
         lands that expand ownership of adjacent City-owned properties or to ensure sufficient property is
         available to accommodate public access and future trail connections.



Planning for Growth
Resulting from the service standard assessment, a total of ten potential acquisition areas are identified. The
greatest documented need is for additional community park sites or a larger, multi-use property to provide the
land base for active recreation opportunities and sport fields. Secondarily, new neighborhood parks are needed
to improve overall distribution and equity, while promoting recreation within walking distance of residential
areas.
While the targeted acquisition areas do not identify a specific parcel(s) for consideration, the area
encompasses a broader region in which an acquisition would be ideally suited. These acquisition targets
represent a long-term vision for improving parkland distribution throughout Bluffdale.

68
Community Parks
At present, City Park is the only community park in Bluffdale. Opportunities for future improvements to
City Park are limited due to the extent of existing park improvements and the planned construction of a new
city hall building on site. As noted in this chapter, a significant demand exists for larger community parks that
provide sufficient space to accommodate a range of recreational uses. One or two additional sites in the 15 to
30 acre range should be pursued and secured as the City grows.
Regarding City Park and the rodeo arena, a number of proposals have been considered during the course
of this planning project that will alter the layout and usage of City Park. The construction of a new city
hall building in the southeast corner of the park will house city offices for multiple departments, council
chambers, community room and court facilities. The 3-acre footprint for the new city hall also will include
parking. Separately, initial concepts for an updated rodeo arena plan have been prepared and include arena
seating, modified circulation and parking, pedestrian connections to the adjacent school, and ticketing and
restroom structures. The arena concept plan was considered by City Council in mid-2015, and no action was
taken. With such significant, potential alterations to the layout of City Park, the City should consider the
preparation of a comprehensive site master plan for the park that acknowledges these physical improvements
and addresses the spacial needs and circulation impacts for park uses, as well as the potential impacts to how
City Park is programmed for events, sports and other uses.



Neighborhood & Pocket Parks
With two neighborhood parks and five pocket parks, small park spaces make up most of Bluffdale’s park
system. With reasonably-priced housing stock and proximity to the greater Salt Lake City metropolitan
area, Bluffdale continues to attract couples and young families, and access to neighborhood-based recreation
opportunities are vitally important to these new residents. The City has accepted several small pocket parks
from developers in the recent past. While these lot-sized mini parks provide some recreation amenities,
they are undersized to serve the needs of older children and the larger neighborhood, and these properties
are more expensive to maintain. Also, opportunities to purchase adjacent land to expand these properties
are often unavailable. The City should refocus a commitment to providing larger neighborhood parks to
accommodate a wider range of amenities and opportunities.
To that end, five neighborhood park acquisitions are recommended throughout the City, based on the
parkland gap analysis. The identification of these acquisition areas will help direct the City’s resources toward
filling existing distribution gaps and also provide direction to future residential developments with regard to
the need for and potential locations of neighborhood parks. Any future acquisition or residential development
agreement should include significant street frontage for neighborhood parklands, which is critical for a sense
of safety and bearing.



Trail Connections
Bluffdale residents have voiced a strong interest for an expanded and interconnected trail system to link all
parts of the city together - from schools, to neighborhoods, to the Jordan River parkway and to park sites.
The recreational trail system focuses primarily on off-street connections, to serve pedestrians, casual cyclists,
equestrians and other non-motorized recreational needs. The trail system should be connected to the larger,
regional network that includes Salt Lake County and Utah County trails. Wherever possible, linkages should


                                                            Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   69
exist between individual residential developments and the citywide trail system, as well as connect to existing
or planned trail segments of adjacent communities.
The on-street bike route and sidewalk system meet transportation needs, but also supplements the off-street
system by providing linkages and offering connections where off-street connections are presently unfeasible.
The continued improvements to the on-street network are guided by the City’s General Plan and Capital
Facilities Plan. The Bluffdale General Plan encourages coordination of the City’s trail system with the City’s
transportation system and with regional trail networks. It also supports creating connections to local parks to
improve the functionality and usability of the entire park system.
Currently many existing trails are limited in length and few connect together or to the parks, the river or
other key destinations. The trail system is further hindered by physical barriers, such as numerous canals and
steep sided bluffs that segment the City. Survey respondents and community meeting participants support
the expansion of a trail system for pedestrians, bicyclists and equestrians. Participants in the planning process
identified a number of potential new trail connections in Bluffdale; these included:
     ■   Completing the Jordan River Trail
     ■   Utilizing canal roads as feeder trails across the city and to the Narrows
     ■   Connecting to Herriman and Yellowfork trail
     ■   Establishing an east/west connection between Southwest Regional Park, City Park and the Jordan
         River Trail
     ■   Connecting Bluffdale trails to the Jordan River Trail and Draper trails
     ■   Connecting canal roads to the Jordan River Trail that are safe for horses

The proposed trail system will provide logical pathway connections to key destinations, and these pathways
should be comfortable and convenient for the community to use. Community meeting attendees also
commented that there is little information about trails within the City. This Plan recommends the
development of more detailed trail signage standards, route and wayfinding signage for parks, trails and
facilities and an informational brochure identifying existing and planned trail facilities.



Water Access
The Jordan River defines Bluffdale and helped form the bluffs and dales that are its namesake, yet Bluffdale
is not viewed as a river community. Physical access to the waters of the Jordan River and its greenway are
limited. Access is challenging due to topography, the railroad corridor and an incomplete trail and road
network. The City will need to capitalize on any remaining opportunities and explore ways to partner with
Salt Lake County and local developers to enable and secure water access along the Jordan River.
Community residents have voiced interest in additional water access along the Jordan River in the form of
small craft launches and trailhead locations. In an effort to promote the Jordan River Water Trail, the City
should explore the feasibility of establishing a trailhead for small craft put-ins near the Jordan River Parkway
bridge located near Parry Farms Baseball Fields. A second trailhead could be considered at the eastern edge of
Arrow Trailhead as a water trail put-in or take-out. For both site, coordination with landowners and physical
site improvements may be required to facilitate safe water access and limited parking.




70
Sport Fields
The City currently does not provide youth athletic programs or proactive coordination with sport clubs and
leagues. The lawn area of City Park is used for soccer, and two baseball/softball fields are available at Parry
Farms. Bluffdale residents with youth who are involved in local sports typically drive to Herriman and
Riverton to participate. According to Public Works staff, these fields are fully booked during the playing
seasons for baseball/softball and soccer. Additionally, staff from the Jordan School District noted that sport
fields are quickly rented in the Bluffdale and Herriman areas, and the school district often has to turn away
sport clubs due to the lack of available field space.
Public sentiment regarding the need for additional sport fields in Bluffdale is generally weak, and sport field
improvements were not ranked highly in the community survey in terms of relative importance across a
range of possible recreation enhancements. This may be related to the pending completion of the Salt Lake
County’s Southwest Regional Park, which will include three multi-purpose sport fields in the first phase to
be completed in Spring 2016. Once completed, the fields at the new county park will be programmed by Salt
Lake County and provide little relief to the existing and growing demand for athletic fields for local youth
sports. Additionally, the future development of a new city hall on the site of City Park may affect the way in
which that site is utilized and programmed for sports.
As noted above, the City needs to plan for and pursue the acquisition of one to two community parks to
serve existing demands and future growth. A new community park should include at least two full-sized
soccer fields, one baseball field and one softball field; these fields could be configured in an overlay fashion to
maximize the use of field space. Once additional fields are available, the City will need to play a more active
role in scheduling and coordinating with sport leagues and clubs. Such arrangements should not only address
field use and scheduling, but also include discussions of maintenance support, fees and appropriate on-site
fundraising from concessions and/or sponsorships. Additional opportunities to expand field availability may
include partnering with Jordan School District or local charter schools for field improvements. Although
challenges may exist regarding cost sharing and scheduled field usage, many communities across the West
have successfully partnered for school field improvements as a means to maximize field scheduling and
playability as growth pressures limit the availability of new park space.



Outdoor Sport Courts
In addition to field sport needs, a current deficiency and limited distribution of sport courts exist within
Bluffdale. Public and charter school sites provide limited access to basketball courts, and several driveway
and street hoops were noted during the inventory process and reinforced the demand for sport courts. Only
two full-sized outdoor basketball courts and one half court are provided within the City’s park system, and
no public tennis or pickleball courts exist within the City. Although the new Southwest Regional Park will
include two basketball, six tennis courts and some pickleball courts too, the City should reassess the demand
for sport courts as the City grows. For example, outdoor full-sized basketball courts should be provided in
future community park designs, and half-courts should be considered in neighborhood parks where the park
configuration allows and where neighbors desire these facilities.



Indoor Recreation Center
As highlighted by the survey results and open house meeting comments, many residents expressed an interest


                                                             Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   71
for indoor facilities. At the present, Bluffdale residents must travel to nearby communities to access indoor
recreation facilities, other than those provided at Bluffdale Elementary School for current students. However,
an indoor recreation center is very costly to build and operate.
Former guidelines from the National Recreation and Parks Association suggested a service standard of
1 community center per 15,000-25,000 people, and while that standard is no longer in use, it suggests a
certain population density to support such a facility. While public support is high for a community center,
a cautious approach should be taken. A well-designed center can serve 20,000 or more residents, and the
Bluffdale community is too small at this time to generate sufficient demand to support such a facility without
a significant operating subsidy.
New or retrofitted facilities not only add to maintenance and operating costs, but they must be conceived
with consideration given to the flexibility of programming, intended uses and services, along with cost
recovery goals. Furthermore, voters are generally more supportive of paying for expanded services when the
shared use of facilities can be demonstrated; it is more difficult to secure voter support for single-purpose
facilities.
As the City population grows, this should be revisited and consideration given to potential locations for such
a facility. Given the level of interest in facility space for recreation programming, this Plan recommends an
additional review of alternatives for providing the community center “services” while addressing the initial
financial considerations, understanding and modeling user demand and analyzing options for cost recovery.



Recreation Programming
As with the community center discussion above, Bluffdale currently does not offer recreation programming
for its residents. Facility space and staffing typically are required to accomplish consistent, year-round
programming; however, other options for near-term programming may exist.
The City could approach recreation services incrementally through interagency agreements with other public
or non-profit partners to build resident trust in the programming and to gain deeper insights into the specific
recreational needs of residents. For example, the City could explore the potential to partner with Herriman,
Riverton or Salt Lake County to see if any of these jurisdictions could offer summer programming in City
parks or other forms of extensions offered within sites located in Bluffdale.



Off-Leash Dog Area
An off-leash dog area provides a location where residents can exercise dogs. This is especially important for
residents who have small yards. With higher density, small lot developments occurring in east Bluffdale, the
City should evaluate the future need for a designated off-leash area, even though the community survey did
not explicitly query residents for such facilities. As the City grows, residents with smaller yards will seek out
alternatives to exercise their dogs, and consideration should be given before dog-people conflicts become
common along trails or in City parks.
A one- to two-acre site should be considered, in a location away from natural resource areas, for future
development of an off-leash dog area. The site should also be safe, not isolated, and noise impacts on
neighbors should be considered. Ideally, a dog park would be a component to a larger community park, where
infrastructure (parking, restrooms, garbage collection) exists and supports multiple activities. Bluffdale should
look to partnership opportunities in the development of an off leash area; communities throughout the West

72
have relied on grassroots or non-profit organizations for the ongoing operations and maintenance of such
facilities.



Identity & Maintenance
Information & Wayfinding
General Information & Communications
Both residents and stakeholders cited issues with communication, visibility and brand identity for Bluffdale’s
park system. For example, a significant proportion (66%) of survey respondents noted a preference for finding
information about the City’s parks and trails on the City website, and 71% said they would visit the website
frequently if more current information were posted. However, the City’s existing website offers limited
functionality and does not have readily-accessible information about parks, trails or programs.
To broaden the public awareness, the City’s website should be expanded to facilitate quick links to popular
destinations and also be designed with mobile internet users (e.g., smart phones) in mind. This includes
posting park system maps, trail maps and a listing of park sites and amenities to enhance the experience for
the on-the-go user. In developing new materials, the City should prepare visually attractive materials (print
and electronic) that have consistency of graphic style and theme. Additionally, the City should consider
developing a system of email marketing with periodic e-newsletters and formalizing a social media presence.

Wayfinding & Signage
The City of Bluffdale can benefit from enhanced wayfinding and signage in support of the City’s parks and
facilities. As the park system continues to expand, the City should consider a more comprehensive approach
to directional signage to park and trail facilities. Better signage and consistency in brand identification
could increase awareness for residents and visitors of nearby recreational opportunities, such as trailheads
for the Jordan River Trail, the City Park and equestrian trails. Better signage in conjunction with publicly
available maps of parks and trails can also improve the enjoyment and understanding of the parks system and
encourage visitors to experience more sites within the City.



Asset Management
Maintenance & Renovation
The on-going maintenance and upkeep of public parklands is paramount to residents’ use and enjoyment of
the facilities. While survey respondents gave a high overall satisfaction ratings (87%) for the condition of
Bluffdale parks and facilities, some suggestions surfaced during public meetings for park improvements and
enhancements, especially security lighting. Specific recommendations for upgrades and enhancements are
listed in the Capital Facilities Plan (CFP) section of this Plan.
To improve maintenance practices and reduce reactive maintenance, the City should improve and standardize
documentation about park and trail furnishings, amenities and features. Such documentation should include
records of what is installed, when it is installed and what the expected useful life of each element is, with the
intent of having a master list to serve as a baseline for a cyclical repair and replacement program. Such a tool
can also aid in the future budgeting for capital repairs and for overall asset management and staff loading

                                                           Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   73
requirements. Additionally, the City should continue to maintain work logs of regularly scheduled play
equipment safety inspections and repair as part of a broader risk management program.

Accessibility
The park and trail facility inventory revealed opportunities for the City to improve universal access for
patrons. Accessibility and ADA compliance issues were noted at several sites, and suggested improvements
range from providing site furnishings that are designed for accessibility, providing pathway connections to
amenities and features within parks, and repairing or improving the surfacing of trails throughout the system.

Leveraging & Volunteer Development
Bluffdale has a limited budget for its parks system, but the City should allocate staff time strategically to
projects that can leverage City resources. This includes dedicating staff time for grant preparation and for
volunteer recruitment and management. Although volunteers require management at the City’s expense,
successful volunteer efforts can net many hours of free labor and result in an overall financial gain. Volunteers
can be especially effective at beautification and trail projects, such as pathway clearing or trail building.
Volunteerism also helps community members gain a sense of ownership of the park system. While donations
have not been significant within Bluffdale to date, the community is supportive of parks and recreation, and
some staff time spent organizing fundraising efforts could help to implement capital improvements.



Design Continuity & Guidelines
Upon review of the City’s existing developed parks, it was noted that a general lack of design continuity
exists across Bluffdale parks. Specifically, the furnishings and entry signs vary considerably from park to park.
In several instances, installed furnishings (e.g., tables and benches) do not meet current ADA standards for
universal accessibility.
The adoption and implementation of updated design standards for City parks will benefit the City in several
ways. By providing continuity in furnishings and construction materials, there will be consistency in the
methods used to maintain, repair and replace them as they become worn or are damaged. This consistency can
make the system more efficient to maintain and improve aesthetic appeal and safety.
Privately-held or privately-constructed parks could be held to minimum design and maintenance criteria to
ensure quality and consistency of park amenities. While these parks may be neither owned nor operated by
the City, public perceptions about their appearance and level of development may reflect on the City’s park
system management resulting from misinformation or a misunderstanding of who owns and manages these
parks. In addition, without such standards, privately-developed parks may not meet community needs or
could pose long-term maintenance or safety issues.
To address facility design, the City could prepare and adopt design standards to be applied to site
development at the time of development review. Application of such standards is particularly critical in cases
where a developer is building the park in lieu of paying park impact fees. Such standards could also outline
minimally-acceptable maintenance requirements. Requirements could be placed on the tract title or applied
through a written development agreement between the developer and the City. Such agreements and design
criteria will help ensure the broader parks system goals are met and that the facilities provided meet the needs
of residents as outlined in this, or subsequent, Plans. Recommended guidelines are outlined in Appendix D of
this Plan.


74
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REDWOOD RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HW
BIG BUCK CV




                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER EB HWY                      BANGER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EB
                                                                   13800 S                                                                                                                      TER WB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER EB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                       HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13800 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BANGERTER WB HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ER
                         MULEY CT                                                      Palisade Acres Detention Pond




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NG
                                                       WHITE TAIL CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SADDLE HORN CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2200 W
                                        DEER HILL WY                                  PONY LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                            2820 W
                               4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1835 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MARKETVIEW DR                                                               HOME FR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13930 S 13930 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SADDLE HORN DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON        T CIR
              BUCK HOLLOW DR                                                                                                                                                       WARREN CIR
                                                                             WASATCH VISTA DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BRIDLE WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13970 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14000 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR                                                                            BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ET                                                                                                               BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BETHANY HILLS CV                              RN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BE              DR
                  BUCK HOLLOW LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ELLO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CLYDESDALE CIR                                                                                                        14050 S                                                                                                                                             CA       BRUN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2055 W
                                                       DEER HAVEN CV




                                                                                                3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NAPA AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                SW Regional Park                                                                                                                                                                  14095 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1850 W
                                   DEER ORCHARD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14150 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14165 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DR
                                             FAWN HILL LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14200 S                                                                                                         14200 S                                                                   14200 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CEMETERY ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STONE FLY DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                     COUNTRY CLASSIC DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             YA L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14270 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MIS
                                                                                                           3450 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bluffdale City Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PEACOCK MIDGE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GE D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MID
                                                                                                                                                                                              VANTAGE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14400 S                                                                                                                                                                             14400 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FROST CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VIEW PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phillip Gates Memorial Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2585 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2390 W
                                                                                                                    3400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CENTER POINT WY
                                                                                                                                          Ponderosa Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SP RING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14455 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1010 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C RE




                                                                                                                                                  BARTONS LN                                                                                                                                                      14550 S                                                        OAK POINT DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1515 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1700 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PERSCHON CIR                                           WANLASS WY
                                                                                            3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                      14600 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14600 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1630 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1690 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TE




                                                                                                                    BOULDEN BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAGE CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    800 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          830 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1000 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SPENCER CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  850 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P CIR




                                                                                                                                                                      VERA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14700 S
                                                                                                         Falls at Boulden Ridge                                          14750 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STATEHOOD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     130
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ASPEN AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14805 S
                                                                                                                                                             3200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2890 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HERITAGECREST WY
                                                                                                                                      BLUE
                                                                                                                                           SPRI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14800 S
                                                                                                                                                  NGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCORD PARK DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P
                                                                                                                                                        LN                                                                                                                                                                                           14850 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                          14865 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RA
                                                                                                                             CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELK
                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F
                                                                                                                               TL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REE
                                                                                                                                  E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KC
                                                                                                                                    VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    00
                                                                                                                                                                                3030 W
                                                                                                                                       LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2490 W
                                                                                                                                          EY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ON

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MARM
                                                                                                                                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2405 W
                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AC CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   146

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pocket Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1800 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOUNTAINSIDE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2475 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mt. Jordan Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RS
                                                                                                                                                                                         2920 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MOUNTAINSIDE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15090 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Parry Farms Baseball Fields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LV


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROCK HOLLOW DR                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bluffdale Heights Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ME                   OY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15170 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AD                    W     Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MU                  GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LE                       DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15220 S                                                                                                                                                            A    IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IRO                       DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15250 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GU                  YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R   DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GREENE FERN CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S                                                                                   SM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15075
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INDIAN PAINT CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SILVERPOINT WY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PINEHOLLOW LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AS                 ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NT                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEC                   IL D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R    ETA                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEA                  RIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TT                   TD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LE                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SLU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E      DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PITCHFOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BLACK GOLD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WAR ADMIRAL DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parry Farms Park/Detention Pond
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ER GU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LCH D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAN O WAR DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVER VIEW DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GUN STOCK DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PRAIRIE HILL DR




                  Legend
                                             1/4-mile walkshed to Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                             1/2-mile walkshed to Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I-15 SB FW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y




                                             1-mile walkshed to Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                             City Parks: Existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RD




                                             City Parks: Planned
                                             City-owned parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            167
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  67 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G STA




                                             HOA Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RIDIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUN




                                             HOA Open Space
                                             Salt Lake County parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JORDAN NARROWS RD




                                             School District parcels
                                             Charter School parcels
                                             Camp Williams
                                             Streets
                                             Parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CAMP




                                             Canals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WILLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AM




                                             River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S RD




                                                                                                                                                    This map is intended for planning and
                                                                                                                                                    informational purposes and may not have been
                                                                                                                                                    prepared for, or be suitable for legal, engineering
                                             Non-Residential Zoning                                                                                 or surveying purposes.




                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                    The proposed park gaps areas are intended to
                                             City boundary                                                                                          illustrate general   deficiencies, which will be
                                                                                                                                                    assessed further upon future studies and
                                                                                                                                                    negotiations with property owners for access and
                                             County boundary                                                                                        use.

              0                          0.25                                0.5                                                      1                                                                                 1.5                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Miles




                   Bluffdale
                  City       Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
                        of Bluffdale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ad o pte d 1 0/28/ 1 5
                   Map 3A: Parkland Gap Analysis
                  Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
     Page left intentionally blank.




76
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REDWOOD RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HW
BIG BUCK CV




                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER EB HWY                      BANGER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EB
                                                                   13800 S                                                                                                                      TER WB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER EB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                       HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13800 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BANGERTER WB HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ER
                         MULEY CT                                                      Palisade Acres Detention Pond




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NG
                                                       WHITE TAIL CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SADDLE HORN CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2200 W
                                        DEER HILL WY                                  PONY LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                            2820 W
                               4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1835 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MARKETVIEW DR                                                               HOME FR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13930 S 13930 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SADDLE HORN DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON        T CIR
              BUCK HOLLOW DR                                                                                                                                                       WARREN CIR
                                                                             WASATCH VISTA DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BRIDLE WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13970 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14000 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR                                                                            BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ET                                                                                                               BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BETHANY HILLS CV                              RN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BE              DR
                  BUCK HOLLOW LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ELLO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CLYDESDALE CIR                                                                                                        14050 S                                                                                                                                             CA       BRUN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2055 W
                                                       DEER HAVEN CV




                                                                                                3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NAPA AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                SW Regional Park                                                                                                                                                                  14095 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1850 W
                                   DEER ORCHARD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14150 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14165 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DR
                                             FAWN HILL LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14200 S                                                                                                         14200 S                                                                   14200 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CEMETERY ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STONE FLY DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                     COUNTRY CLASSIC DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             YA L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14270 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MIS
                                                                                                           3450 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bluffdale City Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PEACOCK MIDGE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GE D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MID
                                                                                                                                                                                              VANTAGE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14400 S                                                                                                                                                                             14400 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FROST CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VIEW PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Phillip Gates Memorial Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2585 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2390 W
                                                                                                                    3400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CENTER POINT WY
                                                                                                                                          Ponderosa Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SP RING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14455 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1010 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C RE




                                                                                                                                                  BARTONS LN                                                                                                                                                      14550 S                                                        OAK POINT DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1515 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1700 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PERSCHON CIR                                           WANLASS WY
                                                                                            3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                      14600 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14600 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1630 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1690 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TE




                                                                                                                    BOULDEN BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAGE CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    800 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          830 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1000 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SPENCER CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  850 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P CIR




                                                                                                                                                                      VERA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14700 S
                                                                                                         Falls at Boulden Ridge                                          14750 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STATEHOOD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     130
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ASPEN AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14805 S
                                                                                                                                                             3200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2890 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HERITAGECREST WY
                                                                                                                                      BLUE
                                                                                                                                           SPRI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14800 S
                                                                                                                                                  NGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCORD PARK DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P
                                                                                                                                                        LN                                                                                                                                                                                           14850 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                          14865 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RA
                                                                                                                             CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELK
                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          F
                                                                                                                               TL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REE
                                                                                                                                  E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KC
                                                                                                                                    VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    00
                                                                                                                                                                                3030 W
                                                                                                                                       LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2490 W
                                                                                                                                          EY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ON

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MARM
                                                                                                                                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2405 W
                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AC CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   146

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Pocket Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1800 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOUNTAINSIDE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2475 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mt. Jordan Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RS
                                                                                                                                                                                         2920 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MOUNTAINSIDE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15090 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Parry Farms Baseball Fields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LV


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROCK HOLLOW DR                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bluffdale Heights Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ME                   OY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15170 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AD                    W     Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MU                  GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LE                       DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15220 S                                                                                                                                                            A    IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IRO                       DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15250 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GU                  YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R   DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GREENE FERN CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S                                                                                   SM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15075
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INDIAN PAINT CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SILVERPOINT WY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PINEHOLLOW LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AS                 ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NT                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEC                   IL D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R    ETA                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEA                  RIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TT                   TD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LE                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SLU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E      DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PITCHFOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BLACK GOLD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WAR ADMIRAL DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parry Farms Park/Detention Pond
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ER GU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LCH D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAN O WAR DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVER VIEW DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GUN STOCK DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PRAIRIE HILL DR




                  Legend
                                             1/4-mile walkshed to Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                             1/2-mile walkshed to Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I-15 SB FW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y




                                             1-mile walkshed to Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                             City Parks: Existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RD




                                             City Parks: Planned
                                             City-owned parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            167
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  67 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G STA




                                             HOA Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RIDIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SUN




                                             HOA Open Space
                                             Salt Lake County parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JORDAN NARROWS RD




                                             School District parcels
                                             Charter School parcels
                                             Camp Williams
                                             Streets
                                             Parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CAMP




                                             Canals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WILLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AM




                                             River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S RD




                                                                                                                                                    This map is intended for planning and
                                                                                                                                                    informational purposes and may not have been
                                                                                                                                                    prepared for, or be suitable for legal, engineering
                                             Non-Residential Zoning                                                                                 or surveying purposes.




                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                    The proposed park gaps areas are intended to
                                             City boundary                                                                                          illustrate general   deficiencies, which will be
                                                                                                                                                    assessed further upon future studies and
                                                                                                                                                    negotiations with property owners for access and
                                             County boundary                                                                                        use.

              0                          0.25                                0.5                                                      1                                                                                 1.5                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Miles




                   Bluffdale
                  City       Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
                        of Bluffdale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ad o pte d 1 0/28/ 1 5
                   Map 3B: Parkland Gap Analysis (with aerial imagery)
                  Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
     Page left intentionally blank.




78
Capital Facilities Plan




                                               7
       Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   79
Capital Facilities Plan
The following Capital Facilities Plan (CFP) lists all park and facility projects considered for the next five
years. The majority of these projects entail the acquisition and development of parks, renovating or repairing
existing facilities and expanding trail corridors. Based on survey results and other feedback, Bluffdale
residents have indicated an interest in park facility upgrades and expansion as short-term priorities, and the
proposed CFP is reflective of that desire. The following table summarizes the aggregate capital estimates by
park types for the next 5 years.

  Table 18. Capital Facilities Plan Expenditures Summary

     Park Type                        Acquisition Development Renovation                                               Sum
     ŽŵŵƵŶŝƚǇWĂƌŬƐ                 Ψϰ͕ϭϮϯ͕ϬϴϬ ΨϭϴϮ͕ϬϮϬ Ψϭϲ͕ϭϰϱ Ψϰ͕ϯϮϭ͕Ϯϰϱ
     EĞŝŐŚďŽƌŚŽŽĚWĂƌŬƐ              Ψϭ͕ϲϳϳ͕ϰϴϰ Ψϰϴϴ͕ϰϳϴ Ψϯϭ͕ϱϰϳ ΨϮ͕ϭϵϳ͕ϱϬϵ
     WŽĐŬĞƚWĂƌŬƐ                    ΨͲ ΨϳϬ͕ϱϯϳ Ψϳ͕Ϭϲϯ Ψϳϳ͕ϲϬϬ
     ^ƉĞĐŝĂůhƐĞWĂƌŬƐ                                       Ψϯϲ͕Ϯϯϲ Ψϳ͕ϲϭϳ Ψϰϯ͕ϴϱϯ
     dƌĂŝůƐ                          Ψϭ͕ϰϱϱ͕ϭϳϯ Ψϭ͕ϯϰϬ͕ϳϱϰ                                  ΨϮ͕ϳϵϱ͕ϵϮϳ
                            dKd> Ψϳ͕Ϯϱϱ͕ϳϯϲ ΨϮ͕ϭϭϴ͕ϬϮϱ ΨϲϮ͕ϯϳϮ Ψϵ͕ϰϯϲ͕ϭϯϯ




Also, the CFP adds a significant land acquisition program to ensure that sufficient lands are available for
outdoor recreation as Bluffdale continues to grow in population. Acquisition target areas have been identified
and ranked in priority. Emphasis has been placed on securing community park acquisitions and access rights
along key trail corridors to serve the greatest population and then on filling gaps in neighborhood park land
distribution within the city limits.
The following CFP project list provides brief project descriptions and priority ranking to assist staff in
preparing future capital budget requests. Maps of the proposed parkland acquisition areas and trail network
also follow.




80
Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
5-Year Capital Improvement Plan
2016-2020             Adopted 10/28/15


 Park Type     ID#    Park Site                                 Project Description                                                                 Activity Priority    Funding            2016               2017               2018               2019               2020               2021+             Sum
Community             City Park                                Conduct a site master plan                                                              D        1       GF              $      38,000      $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $         38,000
                                                               Provide area lighting, including path lighting                                          D        2       GF              $              -   $     113,764      $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $     113,764
                                                               Provide play area for ages 2 to 5 and swing set                                         D        2       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $      30,256      $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $         30,256
Community       P-1   Community Park Acquisition               Acquire 15 - 30 acres (Gap Area # 1)                                                    A        1       PIF, Gr, Priv   $    2,850,000     $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $    2,850,000
Community       P-2   Community Park Acquisition               Acquire 25 - 40 acres (Gap Area # 2)                                                    A        1       PIF, Gr, Priv   $              -   $              -   $    1,273,080     $              -   $              -   $             -   $    1,273,080
Neighborhood          Mt. Jordan Park                          Install lighting                                                                        D        3       GF              $              -   $      29,046      $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $         29,046
                                                               Install bench(s) on periphery of play area                                              R        2       GF, Priv        $              -   $          5,809   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          5,809
                                                               Install play area for ages 2 to 5                                                       D        2       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $      30,256      $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $         30,256
Neighborhood          Philip Gates Memorial Park               Add additional parking on the south end                                                 D        3       GF              $              -   $              -   $          2,493   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          2,493
                                                               Modify channel alignment, remove large riprap & incorporate native plant materials      D        3       GF              $              -   $              -   $      10,097      $              -   $              -   $             -   $         10,097
                                                               Install a culvert for ped crossing over the channel                                     D        1       GF              $      16,450      $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $         16,450
                                                               Provide ADA-accessible picnic table(s)                                                  R        2       GF              $              -   $              -   $          1,870   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          1,870
                                                               Plant additional shade trees                                                            R        3       GF, Priv        $              -   $              -   $          2,867   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          2,867
Neighborhood          Vintage Park                             Conduct a site master plan                                                              D        1       GF, PIF         $      45,000      $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $         45,000
                                                               Park development                                                                        D        2       PIF, Gr, Priv   $              -   $              -   $              -   $     355,136      $              -   $             -   $     355,136
Neighborhood    P-3   Neighborhood Park Acquisition            Acquire 3 - 5 acres (Gap Area # 3)                                                      A        1       PIF, Gr, Priv   $              -   $     386,250      $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $     386,250
Neighborhood    P-4   Neighborhood Park Acquisition            Acquire 3 - 5 acres (Gap Area # 4)                                                      A        1       PIF, Gr, Priv   $              -   $     721,000      $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $     721,000
Neighborhood    P-5   Neighborhood Park Acquisition            Acquire 2 - 4 acres (Gap Area # 5)                                                      A        2       PIF, Gr, Priv   $              -   $              -   $     297,052      $              -   $              -   $             -   $     297,052
Neighborhood    P-8   Neighborhood Park Acquisition            Acquire 2 - 3 acres (Gap Area # 6)                                                      A        1       PIF, Gr, Priv   $              -   $              -   $              -   $     273,182      $              -   $             -   $     273,182
Neighborhood    P-9   Neighborhood Park Acquisition            Acquire 2 - 4 acres (Gap Area # 7)                                                      A        2       PIF, Gr, Priv   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      533,266    $     533,266
Community       P-1   Community Park Development               Develop 15 - 30 acres (Gap Area # 1)                                                    D        3       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $     8,694,556   $    8,694,556
Community       P-2   Community Park Development               Develop 25 - 40 acres (Gap Area # 2)                                                    D        3       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $     9,274,193   $    9,274,193
Neighborhood    P-3   Neighborhood Park Development            Develop 3 - 5 acres (Gap Area # 3)                                                      D        3       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $     2,028,730   $    2,028,730
Neighborhood    P-4   Neighborhood Park Development            Develop 3 - 5 acres (Gap Area # 4)                                                      D        3       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $     1,738,911   $    1,738,911
Neighborhood    P-8   Neighborhood Park Development            Develop 2 - 3 acres (Gap Area # 8)                                                      D        3       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      985,383    $     985,383
Pocket                Bluffdale Heights Park                   Install drinking fountain                                                               D        2       GF              $              -   $          4,841   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          4,841
                                                               Provide ADA-accessible picnic table                                                     R        2       GF              $              -   $          1,815   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          1,815
                                                               Install bench(s) on periphery of play area                                              D        2       GF, Priv        $              -   $          2,905   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          2,905
Pocket                Pocket Park #1                           Install bench(s)                                                                        D        2       GF, Priv        $              -   $              -   $          2,992   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          2,992
                                                               Install covered picnic table                                                            D        2       GF, Gr          $              -   $              -   $          3,740   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          3,740
Pocket                Pocket Park #2                           Install bench(s) on periphery of play area                                              D        2       GF, Priv        $              -   $              -   $          2,992   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          2,992
Pocket                Ponderosa Park                           Install play structure                                                                  D        3       GF, Gr          $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $       34,054    $         34,054
                                                               Provide ADA seating at covered picnic table                                             R        2       GF              $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $           661    $             -   $           661
                                                               Plant shade trees along western edge of park                                            R        3       GF, Priv        $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $          1,825   $             -   $          1,825
Pocket                Ten Sleep Circle Park                    Provide ADA-accessible picnic table                                                     R        1       GF              $          1,763   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          1,763
                                                               Provide ADA path to play area                                                           R        1       GF              $           999    $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $           999
                                                               Provide lighting                                                                        D        2       GF              $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $       10,897    $         10,897
                                                               Install bench(s) on periphery of play area                                              D        2       GF, Priv        $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $        3,269    $          3,269
Pocket                Parry Farms Park / Detention Pond        Conduct a site master plan                                                              D        1       GF, PIF         $              -   $      25,750      $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $         25,750
Pocket                Palisade Acres Detention Pond            Conduct a site master plan                                                              D        3       GF, PIF         $              -   $              -   $              -   $      27,318      $              -   $             -   $         27,318
Trail                 Independence Trail                       Install benches/resting locations in shaded areas along trail                           D        2       GF, Priv        $              -   $              -   $          5,983   $              -   $              -   $             -   $          5,983
                                                               Install periodic lighting along trail                                                   D        2       GF              $              -   $              -   $      26,178      $              -   $              -   $             -   $         26,178
Trail                 Bonneville Shoreline Trail               Install benches/resting locations along trail                                           D        2       GF, Priv        $              -   $              -   $              -   $          6,163   $              -   $             -   $          6,163
Trail                 Springview Farms Trail                   Install benches/resting locations along trail                                           D        2       GF, Priv        $              -   $              -   $              -   $          6,163   $              -   $             -   $          6,163
Trail                 Parry Farms Spur Trail                   Install benches/resting locations along trail                                           D        2       GF, Priv        $              -   $              -   $              -   $          6,163   $              -   $             -   $          6,163
Trail           T-1   City Park to Redwood                     Secure trail access rights (0.95 mi.)                                                   A        1       GF, Gr, PIF     $     260,000      $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $     260,000
Trail          T-13 City Park to Bluffdale Elementary          Community Trail (0.14 mi.)                                                              D        1       GF, Priv        $      70,000      $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $         70,000
Trail          T-2/3 Rose Creek (East)                         Secure trail access rights (0.88 mi.)                                                   A        1       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $     370,800      $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $     370,800
Trail           T-7   SW Regional Park to 14400 S              Secure trail access rights (1.11 mi.)                                                   A        2       GF, Priv        $              -   $              -   $     546,364      $              -   $              -   $             -   $     546,364
Trail          T-11 Philip Gates Loop (East)                   Secure trail access rights (0.26 mi.)                                                   A        1       GF, Gr, PIF     $      54,000      $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $             -   $         54,000
Trail           T-4   Rose Creek (West)                        Secure trail access rights (1 mi.)                                                      A        2       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $              -   $              -   $     224,009      $              -   $             -   $     224,009
Trail           T-1   City Park to Redwood                     Community Trail (0.95 mi.)                                                              D        1       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $              -   $              -   $     515,225      $              -   $             -   $     515,225
Trail           T-5   JRT to Independence (incl bridge span)   Community Trail (0.24 mi.)                                                              D        2       GF, Gr, PIF     $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $     350,662      $             -   $     350,662
     Page left intentionally blank.




82
 Park Type           ID#    Park Site                              Project Description                                                        Activity Priority    Funding          2016               2017               2018               2019               2020               2021+            Sum
Trail                T-2   Rose Creek (East)                      Community Trail (0.03 mi.)                                                     D        2       GF, Gr, PIF   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $       17,261   $         17,261
Trail                T-3   Rose Creek (East)                      Community Trail (0.85 mi.)                                                     D        2       GF, Gr, PIF   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      489,065   $      489,065
Trail                WT-1 Water Trail Trailhead at JRC Crossing   Develop trailhead for water trail to include signage, put-ins and parking      D        1       GF, Priv      $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      116,045   $      116,045
Trail                WT-2 Water Trail Trailhead at Arrow Park     Develop trailhead for water trail to include signage, put-ins and parking      D        1       GF, Priv      $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      116,045   $      116,045
Trail                T-6   SW Regional Park                       Community Trail (0.81 mi.)                                                     D        2       GF, Gr, PIF   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      466,050   $      466,050
Trail                T-7   SW Regional Park to 14400 S            Community Trail (1.11 mi.)                                                     D        3       GF, Gr, PIF   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      719,214   $      719,214
Trail                T-12 Draper Irrigation Canal                 Local Trail (0.72 mi.)                                                         D        3       GF, Gr, PIF   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      284,809   $      284,809
Trail                T-11 Philip Gates Loop (East)                Local Trail (0.26 mi.)                                                         D        1       GF, Gr, PIF   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      96,944      $              -   $            -   $         96,944
Trail                T-8   Welby-Jacob Canal                      Local Trail (0.39 mi.)                                                         D        1       GF, Gr, PIF   $              -   $              -   $              -   $     145,416      $              -   $            -   $      145,416
Trail                T-4   Rose Creek (West)                      Local Trail (1 mi.)                                                            D        2       GF, Gr, PIF   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      395,567   $      395,567
Trail                T-10 Utah and Salt Lake Canal                Local Trail (0.3 mi.)                                                          D        2       GF, Gr, PIF   $              -   $              -   $              -   $     111,858      $              -   $            -   $      111,858
Trail                T-9   Utah Lake Distributing Canal           Local Trail (0.44 mi.)                                                         D        2       GF, Gr, PIF   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      174,050   $      174,050
Special                    Parry Farms Baseball Fields            Plant shade trees                                                              R        3       GF, Priv      $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $          3,650   $            -   $          3,650
                                                                  Install a play area with adjacent benches                                      D        2       GF            $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $      36,236      $            -   $         36,236
                                                                  Provide ADA-accessible picnic table(s)                                         R        2       GF            $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $          3,967   $            -   $          3,967
Special                    Rodeo Grounds (City Park)              TBD                                                                                             TBD           $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $              -   $            -   $              -
Systemwide                 Minor Repairs & Renovations                                                                                           R        1       GF            $          5,000   $          7,725   $          7,957   $          5,464   $              -   $            -   $         26,145
Systemwide                 ADA Compliance Upgrades                                                                                               R        1       GF            $              -   $          2,500   $          3,500   $          5,000   $              -   $            -   $         11,000

                                                                                                                                                                                $    3,341,211     $   1,732,717      $   2,187,164      $   1,778,040      $     397,001      $   26,081,364   $   35,517,498

             Code          Funding Source                                                                                                                 Code Activity                                       Code Priority
               PIF          Park Impact Fees                                                                                                                 A Acquisition                                       1 High Priority
              Priv          Private funds; Dedications; Donations                                                                                            D Development                                       2
                Gr          Grants                                                                                                                           R Renovation / Repair                               3
               GF           General Fund / Local Share
              TBD           To Be Determined: Other funding sources needed for replacement, rehabilitation and general maintenance
     Page left intentionally blank.




84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REDWOOD RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HW
BIG BUCK CV




                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER EB HWY                      BANGER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EB
                                                                   13800 S                                                                                                                      TER WB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER EB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                       HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13800 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BANGERTER WB HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ER
                         MULEY CT                                                      Palisade Acres Detention Pond




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NG
                                                       WHITE TAIL CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SADDLE HORN CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2200 W
                                        DEER HILL WY                                  PONY LN                                                                                                               2820 W
                               4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1835 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MARKETVIEW DR                                                                  HOME FR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13930 S 13930 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SADDLE HORN DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ON        T CIR
              BUCK HOLLOW DR                                                                                                                                                       WARREN CIR
                                                                             WASATCH VISTA DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BRIDLE WY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13970 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14000 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR                                                                               BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ET                                                                                                                  BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BETHANY HILLS CV                              RN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BE              DR
                  BUCK HOLLOW LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ELLO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CLYDESDALE CIR                                                                                                        14050 S                                                                                                                                             CA       BRUN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2055 W
                                                       DEER HAVEN CV




                                                                                                3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NAPA AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                SW Regional Park                                                                                                                                                                  14095 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1850 W
                                   DEER ORCHARD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14150 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14165 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DR
                                             FAWN HILL LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14200 S                                                                                                         14200 S                                                                   14200 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CEMETERY ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STONE FLY DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                     COUNTRY CLASSIC DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                YA L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14270 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MIS
                                                                                                           3450 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bluffdale City Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PEACOCK MIDGE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GE D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MID
                                                                                                                                                                                              VANTAGE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14400 S                                                                                                                                                                             14400 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FROST CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VIEW PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Phillip Gates Memorial Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2585 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2390 W
                                                                                                                    3400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CENTER POINT WY
                                                                                                                                          Ponderosa Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SP RING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14455 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1010 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C RE




                                                                                                                                                  BARTONS LN                                                                                                                                                      14550 S                                                        OAK POINT DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1515 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1700 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PERSCHON CIR                                           WANLASS WY
                                                                                            3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                      14600 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14600 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1630 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1690 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TE




                                                                                                                    BOULDEN BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAGE CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       800 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             830 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1000 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SPENCER CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     850 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P CIR




                                                                                                                                                                      VERA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14700 S
                                                                                                         Falls at Boulden Ridge                                          14750 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STATEHOOD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        130
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ASPEN AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14805 S
                                                                                                                                                             3200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2890 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HERITAGECREST WY
                                                                                                                                      BLUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                           SPRI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14800 S
                                                                                                                                                  NGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONCORD PARK DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                        LN                                                                                                                                                                                           14850 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M
                                                                                                                                                                          14865 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RA
                                                                                                                             CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELK
                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             F
                                                                                                                               TL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REE
                                                                                                                                  E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KC
                                                                                                                                    VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       00
                                                                                                                                                                                3030 W
                                                                                                                                       LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2490 W
                                                                                                                                          EY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MARM
                                                                                                                                             D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2405 W
                                                                                                                                           R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AC CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      146

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pocket Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1800 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MOUNTAINSIDE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2475 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 O


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mt. Jordan Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RS
                                                                                                                                                                                         2920 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MOUNTAINSIDE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15090 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Parry Farms Baseball Fields
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LV


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROCK HOLLOW DR                                                                         CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bluffdale Heights Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ME                   OY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15170 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AD                    W     Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MU                  GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LE                       DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15220 S                                                                                                                                                            A    IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IRO                       DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15250 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GU                  YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R   DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GREENE FERN CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S                                                                                   SM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15075
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INDIAN PAINT CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SILVERPOINT WY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PINEHOLLOW LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AS                 ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NT                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SEC                   IL D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R    ETA                 R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEA                  RIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TT                   TD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LE                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SLU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E      DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PITCHFOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BLACK GOLD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WAR ADMIRAL DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parry Farms Park/Detention Pond
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       THUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ER GU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LCH D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAN O WAR DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVER VIEW DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GUN STOCK DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PRAIRIE HILL DR




                  Legend
                                             Potential Gap Areas                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                             1/4-mile walkshed to Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W




                                             1/2-mile walkshed to Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I-15 SB FW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Y




                                             1-mile walkshed to Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LIAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S




                                             City Parks: Existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RD




                                             City Parks: Planned
                                             City-owned parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            167
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  67 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G STA




                                             HOA Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIDIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SUN




                                             HOA Open Space
                                             Salt Lake County parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JORDAN NARROWS RD




                                             School District parcels
                                             Charter School parcels
                                             Camp Williams
                                             Streets
                                             Parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CAMP




                                             Canals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WILLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AM




                                             River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S RD




                                                                                                                                                    This map is intended for planning and
                                                                                                                                                    informational purposes and may not have been
                                                                                                                                                    prepared for, or be suitable for legal, engineering
                                             Non-Residential Zoning                                                                                 or surveying purposes.




                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                    The proposed park gaps areas are intended to
                                             City boundary                                                                                          illustrate general   deficiencies, which will be
                                                                                                                                                    assessed further upon future studies and
                                                                                                                                                    negotiations with property owners for access and
                                             County boundary                                                                                        use.

              0                          0.25                                0.5                                                      1                                                                                 1.5                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Miles




                     Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
                  City of Bluffdale                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ad o pte d 1 0/28/ 1 5
                   Map 4: Proposed Parks
                  Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
     Page left intentionally blank.




86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REDWOOD RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HW
BIG BUCK CV




                                                                                                                                                  BANGERTER EB HWY                          BANGER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EB
                                                                   13800 S                                                                                                                         TER WB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BANGERTER EB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                          HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13800 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WT-2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ER
                         MULEY CT                                                      Palisade Acres Detention Pond                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NG
                                                       WHITE TAIL CV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SADDLE HORN CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T-4
                                        DEER HILL WY                                  PONY LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2820 W
                               4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1835 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MARKETVIEW DR                                                                    HOME FR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13930 S 13930 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SADDLE HORN DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ON        T CIR
              BUCK HOLLOW DR                                                                                                                                                          WARREN CIR
                                                                             WASATCH VISTA DR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14000 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BRIDLE WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13970 S                               T-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DR                                                                                 BANGERTER WB HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BANGERTER WB HWY
                  BUCK HOLLOW LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CLYDESDALE CIR                                                                                                        14050 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BETHANY HILLS CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BRUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ELLO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR                                                                                                            \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2055 W
                                                       DEER HAVEN CV




                                                                                                3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NAPA AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T-3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14095 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1850 W
                                   DEER ORCHARD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                STO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14150 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14165 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DR
                                             FAWN HILL LN
                                                                                                                                                                                   T-6                                                                                                   T-13




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14200 S                                                                                                         14200 S                                                               14200 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CEMETERY ROAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STONE FLY DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COUNTRY CLASSIC DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                     T-7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 YA L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14270 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       \


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   \
                                                                                                         3450 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bluffdale City Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PEACOCK MIDGE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        \                                                       GE D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MID
                                                                                                                                                                                                 VANTAGE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14400 S                                                                                                                                                                         14400 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T-1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FROST CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VIEW PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Phillip Gates Memorial Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2585 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2390 W
                                                                                                                  3400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CENTER POINT WY
                                                                                                                                         Ponderosa Park




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SP RING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         950 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14455 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1010 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C RE




                                                                                                                                                 BARTONS LN                                                                                                                                                          14550 S                                                        OAK POINT DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1515 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1700 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T-9                                                             PERSCHON CIR                                           WANLASS WY
                                                                                            3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                         14600 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14600 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1630 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1690 W
                                                                                         T-8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TE




                                                                                                                  BOULDEN BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T-11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SAGE CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        800 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              830 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1000 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SPENCER CREST DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      850 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P CIR




                                                                                                                                                                       VERA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T-12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 14700 S
                                                                                                                                                                         14750 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STATEHOOD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T-10
                                                                                                                                                            3200 W
                                                                                                                       CASTLE VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         130
                                                                                                                                                                              \                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ASPEN AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         14805 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2890 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HERITAGECREST WY
                                                                                                                                     BLUE
                                                                                                                                          SPRI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14800 S
                                                                                                                           LLEY DR




                                                                                                                                                 NGS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONCORD PARK DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 P
                                                                                                                                                       LN                                                                                                                                                                                               14850 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                            14865 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ELK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MP


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KC
                                                                                                                                                                     \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          00
                                                                                                                                                                                   3030 W




                                                                                                                                                                     \
                                                                                                                                                                                                               \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2490 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ON

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MARM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2405 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AC CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WT-1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         146

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pocket Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1800 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I-15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IR
                                                                                                                                                                     \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MOUNTAINSIDE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2475 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HO                                                                                                                      Mt. Jordan Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RS
                                                                                                                                                                                            2920 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MOUNTAINSIDE CIR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15090 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Parry Farms Baseball Fields                                                                                                                   EB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LV


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CO                  D                                                                                                                                                                          Bluffdale Heights Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROCK HOLLOW DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         \



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ME                   OY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15170 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AD                    W     Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MU                  GL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LE                       DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15220 S                                                                                                                                                        A    IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRO                       DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15250 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GU                  YD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N                        R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GREENE FERN CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S                                                                                    SM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15075
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INDIAN PAINT CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SILVERPOINT WY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PINEHOLLOW LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AS                 ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NT                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SEC                   IL D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R    ETA                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEA                  RIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TT                   TD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LE                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SLU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E      DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FW
                  Legend




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         K CT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PITCHFOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BLACK GOLD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WAR ADMIRAL DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                \                    Parry Farms Park/Detention Pond
                  Existing Trails
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ER GU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DH




                                            Regional
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LCH D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 \




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAN O WAR DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIVER VIEW DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T-5
                                            Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GUN STOCK DR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRAIRIE HILL DR




                                            Local
                        \                   Equestrian
                  Proposed Trails
                                            Regional
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                            Community
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I-15 SB FW




                                            Local
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          \




                                            Potential Crossing Conflict
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SRD




                    ¾
                    ½                       Existing On-Street Bikeways
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            \




                    ¾
                    ½                       Proposed On-Street Bikeways
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1400 W




                                            City Parks: Existing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 \    ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           167
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 67 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G STA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RIDIN




                                            City Parks: Planned
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SUN




                                            HOA Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JORDAN NARROWS RD



                                            HOA Open Space
                                            Salt Lake County parcels
                                            School District parcels
                                            Charter School parcels
                                            Camp Williams
                                            Streets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CAMP




                                            Parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WILLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S RD




                                            Canals                                                                                                                   This map is intended for planning and
                                                                                                                                                                     informational purposes and may not have been




                                                                                                                           E
                                            River                                                                                                                    prepared for, or be suitable for legal, engineering
                                                                                                                                                                     or surveying purposes.

                                            City boundary                                                                                                            The proposed trail routes are intended to illustrate
                                                                                                                                                                     general alignments, which will be contingent upon
                                                                                                                                                                     future design studies and successful negotiations
                                            County boundary                                                                                                          with property owners for access and use.

              0                          0.25                                0.5                                                     1                                                                                     1.5                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Miles




                     Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan
                  City
                   Map 5:ofProposed
                            Bluffdale
                                    Trails                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ad o pte d 1 0/28/ 1 5
     Page left intentionally blank.




88
Implementation Strategies




                                                  8
          Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   89
Implementation Strategies
Implementation in Context
A number of strategies exist to improve park and recreation service delivery for the City of Bluffdale. The
following considerations are presented to offer near-term direction on implementation and as a means to
continue dialogue between the City, its residents and its partners. Given that the operating and capital
budgets for the City are limited, the implementation measures identified below look primarily to non-
General Fund options. Additionally, a review of likely funding options is included at the end of the chapter
and addresses local financing, federal and state grant and conservation programs, acquisition methods and
others.



Volunteer & Community-Based Action
The public process for this Plan has demonstrated that residents want to be involved in improving the City’s
parks, trails and recreational opportunities and want to have their energies guided through coordination with
the City. Community sponsored park clean-ups, beautification and planting projects, among others, engage
citizens and create a stronger sense of community pride and ownership in park and recreation facilities.
Additionally, the City can benefit from on-going coordination and involvement from local scout troops,
youth sport leagues and other civic groups. The City should also maintain a revolving list of potential small
works or volunteer-appropriate projects to post on its website, while also reaching out to high school students
to encourage student projects. Specific projects noted in the CFP that could utilize volunteers include tree
planting, beautification, trail enhancements, and bench installations in parks or along trail corridors.



Partner Coordination & Collaboration
Specific projects and goals identified in this Plan demand a high degree of coordination and collaboration
with other city departments and outside agencies.
Internal coordination with the Public Works and Planning departments can increase the potential of
implementing the proposed trail network and facilitating access to and improvements of other City-owned
lands for recreational use. Coordination with the Planning & Community Development Department will
be crucial in reviewing development applications with consideration toward potential parkland acquisition
areas and for easement or set-aside requests. However, to more fully extend the park system and recreation
programs, additional partnerships and collaborations should be sought.
The City should initiate discussions with local youth and adult sport leagues and staff from the Jordan
School District and nearby charter schools for the purposes of sport field planning, field improvements and
coordination. As the City grows and is able to secure additional community parkland, additional sport fields

90
could provide field rental revenue, as well as additional tourism revenue, from leagues or sport clubs interested
in hosting tournaments or other events.
The City should continue to explore opportunities to expand public access and ownership along the Jordan
River. This could include outreach to and negotiations with landowners with river frontage, as well as
opportunities for expanded or improved road or pathway access approaching the river.
In consideration of future efforts to establish limited recreation programming, the City should explore and
discuss options for an interlocal agreement with the Jordan School District to utilize gymnasium space
for classes and programs. Additionally, the City should discuss options for additional south city recreation
centers with Salt Lake City, as well as coordinate with Herriman and Riverton for opportunities to extend
programming options into Bluffdale.
Developing or strengthening these types of partnerships will be essential for reaching the goals of the plan
and meeting the needs of the future park system. Partnerships may allow the City to share responsibilities
for the financial, acquisition, development, planning and operational activities. A short list of existing and
potential partners include:
   ■   Federal agencies
   ■   State agencies
   ■   Adjacent cities
   ■   Schools
   ■   Public utilities
   ■   Non-profit organizations
   ■   Private-sector business
   ■   Special interest groups
   ■   Youth & adult sports leagues
   ■   Private citizens


Partnerships, like many relationships, require time to develop and establish the mutual values that keep
the partners at the table, leverage all accumulated resources and lead to successful project or program
implementation. City staff may need to grow to allow for the capacity to capture stronger partnerships.



Enhancing Communications & Outreach
Many of the plan recommendations will require the execution of effective communications and outreach.
   ■ Forging strong partnerships will require effective communications and outreach to potential partners
     who can help the city to leverage park and recreation project implementation.
   ■ Promoting the city’s park system will require broader marketing and outreach that entails a
     combination of better signage, more public news coverage, enhanced wayfinding, printed mapping and
     user information, use of engaging social media platforms, and interactive website/online activities.
   ■ Embracing a balanced strategy for achieving a comprehensive parks system will require the use of
     more extensive communications and outreach tools to create the common ground and public dialog
     needed to support park policies, project implementation, collaborations with partners and the search
     for financial support.

                                                            Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   91
     ■    Ensuring equity and access to parks can be advanced by involving messaging and informational
          techniques that inform residents about opportunities in their park and trail systems. Increased
          participation in park and recreation activities ranging from encouraging family picnic shelter use to
          recruiting for volunteer work parties can help residents increase their familiarity and satisfaction with
          their park system.

Developing an effective communication and outreach plan will require expertise and effort. As with other
plan recommendations, additional staffing resources may be necessary to accomplish an effective messaging
program.



Funding Strategies
The plan has identified a significant breadth of new projects and improvements that exceed the capacity of
existing resources. Based on the survey results, Bluffdale residents indicated a strong level of support for
helping to finance park and recreation system improvements. About 71% surveyed are willing to support
at least $4 per month in added taxes, and over 26% were willing to pay over $10 per month. While specific
funding packages were not proposed with the survey, the results demonstrate a strong willingness to support
funding for residents’ preferred recreation improvements and recreation opportunities.

  Figure 19. Willingness to Support Tax Increases for Parks and Recreation Amenities

                                  Don't Know, 6.1%                 Less than $4 per month,
                                                                           22.8%
         $12 - $15 per month, 10.4%


     $10 - $11 per month,
             16.1%




                                                                                       $4 - $5 per month,
                                                                                              19.0%
          $8 - $9 per month,
                 14.2%
                                                              $6 - $7 per month,
                                                                     11.5%




For the capital projects involving acquisition and development, a variety of funding sources may provide
options for reaching closer to the projected revenue needs. These funding options range from local sources to
state, federal and private entities and programs.



Local Funding Options
Bluffdale possesses a range of local funding tools that could be accessed for the benefit of growing, developing
and maintaining its parks, trails and other recreation facilities. The sources listed below represent potential
sources though some may be dedicated for other local purposes which limit applicability and usage. Therefore,
city leadership will need to consider the feasibility and potential to modify or expand the use of existing city
revenue sources in favor of park and recreation programs.

92
General Obligation Bond
For the purposes of funding capital projects, such as land acquisitions or facility construction, cities have the
authority to borrow money by selling bonds. Voter-approved general obligation bonds may be sold only after
receiving a majority vote at a general or special election.
Impact Fees
The State of Utah’s Impact Fees Act authorizes local governments – including cities, counties and special
districts – to charge park impact fees on new development to mitigate the costs of providing necessary park
and recreation infrastructure. The impact fee helps ensure new residential and commercial growth is served
by adequate park and recreation facilities. Impact fees can be used to fund the acquisition and construction
of new park and recreation facilities, generally defined as having a life expectancy of at least ten years. They
cannot be used to fund operations or maintenance costs.



Federal & State Grants and Conservation Programs
Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance Program
National Park Service
http://www.nps.gov/ncrc/programs/rtca/
The Rivers, Trails and Conservation Assistance Program, also known as the Rivers & Trails Program or
RTCA, is a technical assistance resource for communities administered by the National Park Service
and federal government agencies so they can conserve rivers, preserve open space and develop trails and
greenways. The RTCA program implements the natural resource conservation and outdoor recreation mission
of NPS in communities across America.

Walk-In Access Program
Utah Division of Wildlife Resources
http://wildlife.utah.gov/walkinaccess/
The Walk-In Access program, administered by the Division of Wildlife Resources, compensates willing
landowners for allowing public access to their lands for public recreational use (hunting, trapping and
fishing). Landowners enrolled in the program receive monetary compensation based upon suitable habitat
and wildlife, the amount of land and the length of time the land or water is enrolled in the program. Some
landowners may also qualify for habitat restoration projects designed to attract and benefit wildlife species.
The Division provides public safety patrols and liability coverage for designated sites.

LeRay McAllister Critical Land Conservation Fund (currently unfunded)
Utah Quality Growth Commission
http://planning.utah.gov/leraymcallister.htm
The LeRay McAllister Critical Land Conservation Fund provided funds to preserve and restore critical open
space, such as wildlife habitat and wetlands, culturally or historically unique landscapes, and agricultural
lands. The Fund was an incentive program that provided grants that encourage collaborative conservation
efforts between communities and landowners. The fund was administered by the Utah Quality Growth
Commission and was last funded in 2010.



                                                            Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   93
Utah State Parks Grant Programs
Utah State Parks operates four grant programs and grants money to local agencies, generally on a matching
basis, to acquire, develop and enhance outdoor recreation properties.

     Land and Water Conservation Fund
     http://stateparks.utah.gov/resources/grants/land-and-water-conservation-fund/
     The Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) provides grants to buy land and develop public outdoor
     facilities, including parks, trails and wildlife lands. Grant recipients must provide at least 50% matching
     funds in either cash or in-kind contributions. Grant program revenue is from a portion of federal revenue
     derived from sale or lease of off-shore oil and gas resources. The existing 50-year program expires in
     September, 2015. The legislature is currently considering reauthorization of the fund in one form or
     another.

     National Recreational Trails Program
     http://stateparks.utah.gov/resources/grants/recreational-trails-program/
     The Recreational Trails Program (RTP) provides funds to maintain trails and facilities for a range of
     activities including hiking, mountain biking, horseback riding, motorcycling and snowmobiling. RTP
     funding may be used for the construction and maintenance of trails and trail related facilities, including
     the development of staging areas, trailheads, restroom facilities, etc. RTP funding may not be used
     for non-trail related activities such as the development of campgrounds, purchase of picnic tables,
     landscaping, or irrigation system development. A local match of 50% is required. This program is funded
     through federal gasoline taxes attributed to recreational non-highway uses.

Jordan River Commission Large Grants Program
The Jordan River Commission coordinates $500,000 in grant funding to help implement the
recommendations of the Blueprint Jordan River. The program is supported by the Utah State Legislature and
is administered in partnership with the Utah Division of Forestry Fire and State Lands. At least one party
to the grant application must be a Jordan River Commission member government or an Ex-Officio member
of the JRC Governing Board. A 3:1 (75% non-state funding) match is required for these funds. The City of
Bluffdale should strongly consider becoming a member government to the JRC to become eligible to pursue
these funds.

Utah Waypoint Grant Program
The Waypoint program makes grant monies available with a 50/50 match to communities to build outdoor
recreation infrastructure which would become an enhancement in the area. Waypoint projects must offer
an economic opportunity for the community and should have the potential to attract or retain residents
and increase visitation to the region. Various types of outdoor recreation infrastructure would be eligible for
the Waypoint grant including trails, trail infrastructure, and trail facilities, restroom facilities near popular
recreational climbing areas, ramps and launch sites that would improve water access along rivers, whitewater
parks, yurts, infrastructure for wildlife viewing areas and more. The areas for the project should be open and
accessible to the public.




94
Transportation Enhancements
U.S. Department of Transportation
The federal Surface Transportation Program provides states with funding for highway projects. States are
allocated funds based on a combination of population, transportation systems, miles of roads and other
factors. Each state must reserve at least 10% of its Surface Transportation Program dollars for transportation
enhancement (TE) activities. These enhancement projects include historic preservation, rails-to-trails
programs, easement and land acquisition, transportation, museums, water pollution mitigation, wildlife
connectivity and scenic beautification. All projects must be related, in some way, to transportation.
In each state, TE projects are selected through a competitive process. Applications are submitted by local
government entities, often in partnership with nonprofit organizations. The federal government provides 80%
of the funds and the municipalities need to contribute a 20% match.
MPO Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP) is a competitive grant administered by the Wasatch
Front Regional Council – for the area served by Bluffdale. These funds can be used for planning, design, and
construction of infrastructure related to non-motorized uses. An array of project types are eligible to include
traffic calming, lighting, safety-related infrastructure and compliance with the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990.



Other Methods & Funding Sources
Special Service District
http://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17D/Chapter1/17D-1-S103.html
A special service district may be formed for purposes of delivering recreation services, among many others. It
may be initiated by City Council resolution or by petition of at least 10% of the registered voters within the
proposed district. Once formed, special service districts retain the authority to propose a regular property tax
levy and general obligation bonds.

Business Sponsorships / Donations
Business sponsorships for programs may be available throughout the year. In-kind contributions are often
received, including food, door prizes and equipment/material.

Interagency Agreements
State law provides for interagency cooperative efforts between units of government. Joint acquisition,
development and/or use of park and open space facilities may be provided between parks, public works and
utility providers.

Private Grants, Donations & Gifts
Many trusts and private foundations provide funding for park, recreation and open space projects. Grants
from these sources are typically allocated through a competitive application process and vary dramatically
in size based on the financial resources and funding criteria of the organization. Philanthropic giving is
another source of project funding. Efforts in this area may involve cash gifts and include donations through
other mechanisms such as wills or insurance policies. Community fundraising efforts can also support park,
recreation or open space facilities and projects.

                                                             Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   95
Acquisition Tools & Methods
Landowner Incentive Measures
     Density Bonuses
     Density bonuses are a planning tool used to encourage a variety of public land use objectives, usually
     in urban areas. They offer the incentive of being able to develop at densities beyond current regulations
     in one area, in return for concessions in another. Density bonuses are applied to a single parcel or
     development. An example is allowing developers of multi-family units to build at higher densities if they
     provide a certain number of low-income units or public open space. For density bonuses to work, market
     forces must support densities at a higher level than current regulations.

     Transfer of Development Rights
     The transfer of development rights (TDR) is an incentive-based planning tool that allows land owners to
     trade the right to develop property to its fullest extent in one area for the right to develop beyond existing
     regulations in another area. Local governments may establish the specific areas in which development may
     be limited or restricted and the areas in which development beyond regulation may be allowed. Usually,
     but not always, the “sending” and “receiving” property are under common ownership. Some programs
     allow for different ownership, which, in effect, establishes a market for development rights to be bought
     and sold.

     IRC 1031 Exchange
     If the landowner owns business or investment property, an IRC Section 1031 Exchange can facilitate
     the exchange of like-kind property solely for business or investment purposes. No capital gain or loss is
     recognized under Internal Revenue Code Section 1031 (see www.irc.gov for more details). This option
     may be a useful tool in negotiations with an owner of investment property, especially if the tax savings
     offset to the owner can translate to a sale price discount for the City.


Direct Purchase Methods
     Market Value Purchase
     Through a written purchase and sale agreement, the city purchases land at the present market value based
     on an independent appraisal. Timing, payment of real estate taxes and other contingencies are negotiable.

     Partial Value Purchase (or Bargain Sale)
     In a bargain sale, the landowner agrees to sell for less than the property’s fair market value. A landowner’s
     decision to proceed with a bargain sale is unique and personal; landowners with a strong sense of civic
     pride, long community history or concerns about capital gains are possible candidates for this approach.
     In addition to cash proceeds upon closing, the landowner may be entitled to a charitable income tax
     deduction based on the difference between the land’s fair market value and its sale price.

     Life Estates & Bequests
     In the event a landowner wishes to remain on the property for a long period of time or until death, several
     variations on a sale agreement exist. In a life estate agreement, the landowner may continue to live on the

96
land by donating a remainder interest and retaining a “reserved life estate.” Specifically, the landowner
donates or sells the property to the city, but reserves the right for the seller or any other named person
to continue to live on and use the property. When the owner or other specified person dies or releases
his/her life interest, full title and control over the property will be transferred to the city. By donating a
remainder interest, the landowner may be eligible for a tax deduction when the gift is made. In a bequest,
the landowner designates in a will or trust document that the property is to be transferred to the city
upon death. While a life estate offers the city some degree of title control during the life of the landowner,
a bequest does not. Unless the intent to bequest is disclosed to and known by the city in advance, no
guarantees exist with regard to the condition of the property upon transfer or to any liabilities that may
exist.

Gift Deed
When a landowner wishes to bequeath their property to a public or private entity upon their death, they
can record a gift deed with the city assessor’s office to insure their stated desire to transfer their property
to the targeted beneficiary as part of their estate. The recording of the gift deed usually involves the tacit
agreement of the receiving party.

Option to Purchase Agreement
This is a binding contract between a landowner and the city that would only apply according to the
conditions of the option and limits the seller’s power to revoke an offer. Once in place and signed, the
Option Agreement may be triggered at a future, specified date or upon the completion of designated
conditions. Option Agreements can be made for any time duration and can include all of the language
pertinent to closing a property sale.

Right of First Refusal
In this agreement, the landowner grants the city the first chance to purchase the property once the
landowner wishes to sell. The agreement does not establish the sale price for the property, and the
landowner is free to refuse to sell it for the price offered by the city. This is the weakest form of agreement
between an owner and a prospective buyer.

Conservation and/or Access Easements
Through a conservation easement, a landowner voluntarily agrees to sell or donate certain rights
associated with his or her property (often the right to subdivide or develop), and a private organization or
public agency agrees to hold the right to enforce the landowner’s promise not to exercise those rights. In
essence, the rights are forfeited and no longer exist. This is a legal agreement between the landowner and
the city that permanently limits uses of the land in order to conserve a portion of the property for public
use or protection. The landowner still owns the property, but the use of the land is restricted. Conservation
easements may result in an income tax deduction and reduced property taxes and estate taxes. Typically,
this approach is used to provide trail corridors where only a small portion of the land is needed or for the
strategic protection of natural resources and habitat. Through a written purchase and sale agreement, the
city purchases land at the present market value based on an independent appraisal. Timing, payment of
real estate taxes and other contingencies are negotiable.




                                                         Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   97
Other Land Protection Options
Land Trusts & Conservancies
Land trusts are private non-profit organizations that acquire and protect special open spaces and are
traditionally not associated with any government agency. The Utah Open Lands is the non-profit land trust
conservation association serving the state of Utah, and their efforts have led to the conservation of more than
6,000 acres of natural areas across the state (www.utahopenlands.org). Other national organizations with local
representation include the Nature Conservancy and the Trust for Public Land.




98
APPENDIX A: Survey Summary




 Note: Cross tabulations and detailed numerical data regarding survey responses can be
     provided by the Bluffdale Planning Department.




                                                    Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   99
      Page left intentionally blank.




100
 Findings Report for a Statistically
      Valid Community Survey




                Submitted to
       The City of Bluffdale, Utah

                        By
Leisure Vision (a division of ETC Institute)



                725 W. Frontier Circle
                  Olathe, KS 66061
                   (913) 829-1215
                     June 2015

                            Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   101
                                             Contents
      Section 1: Executive Summary ........................................................ Page 1

      Section 2: Charts and Graphs ........................................................... Page 7

      Section 3: Benchmarks ................................................................... Page 23

      Section 4: Tabular Data .................................................................. Page 27

      Cross-Tabular Data by:

      Section 5: Household Types ........................................................... Page 52

      Section 6: Age and Gender........................................................... Page 141

      Section 7: Length of Residence.................................................... Page 226

      Section 8: Survey Instrument ....................................................... Page 310




102
                                                                             The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                                   Section 1
                                         Executive Summary




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                            Page 1

                                       Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015        103
                                                                                      The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                 Community Interest and Opinion Survey
                      Executive Summary Report

      Overview and Methodology
      ETC Institute conducted a Community Interest and Opinion Survey for the City of Bluffdale
      during the spring of 2015 to help determine the parks, trails, recreation facilities and program
      priorities for the community. The survey was mailed to a sample of households that was
      provided by the City of Bluffdale and intended to be the most complete list of all household in
      the City at the time of the survey mailing. There was the opportunity for non-English speaking
      residents to call a 1-800 number to have the survey administered in Spanish over the phone.

      The goal was to complete 400 surveys. The total amount of surveys completed was 627. The
      results for the sample of 627 households have a 95% level of confidence with a precision rate of
      at least +/- 3.9%.

      This report contains:

               • An executive summary of the methodology and major findings
               • Charts depicting the overall results of the survey
                National benchmark comparisons

               • Tabular data for all questions on the survey
                Cross-tabular analysis by: (1) household types, (2) length of residence, and (3) age and

                  gender
               • A copy of the survey instrument


      A summary of major findings are on the following pages.




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                               Page 2

104
                                                                                      The City of Bluffdale, Utah




PARKS & AMENITIES

        Park Usage: Based on the percentage of residents, 75% indicated that they have used
         Bluffdale City Park over the past 12 months. Other parks respondents have used over the
         past 12 months include: Bluffdale Rodeo Grounds (44%) and Philip Gates Memorial Park
         (17%).

        Most Used Parks: Based on the percentage of residents’ top two choices, 76% indicated
         that they used Bluffdale City Park the most often over the past 12 months. Other parks
         used most often include: Bluffdale Rodeo Grounds (38%), Philip Gates Memorial Park
         (14%) and Mt. Jordan Park (13%).

        Overall Condition of Parks and Facilities: Fifty-three percent (53%) of respondents
         indicated that the overall condition of parks and facilities was good. Other ratings of
         conditions include: Excellent (34%), fair (10%), and poor (3%).

        Additions Made to Parks Visited Most Often: Based on the percentage of residents,
         48% indicated that they would like to see additional restrooms added to the City of
         Bluffdale parks that they use most often. Other additions respondents would like to see
         include: Picnic tables/benches (43%), drink fountains (38%), playground equipment
         (35%), trails (32%), and pavilion additions (30%).

        Usage of Amenities in City of Bluffdale Parks: Based on the percentage of residents,
         66% indicated that they use walking path/trail. Other amenities in the City of Bluffdale
         parks respondents use include: Playground (63%) and picnic pavilion (56%).

        Conditions of Amenities in City of Bluffdale Parks: Based on the percentage of
         residents who rated the condition of amenities in the City of Bluffdale parks as either
         “excellent” or “good”, 93% rated Old West Town condition as either excellent or good.
         Other similar ratings include: Soccer fields (88%), playground (87%), picnic pavilion
         (86%), and walking path/trail (86%).

        Most Used Amenities in City of Bluffdale Parks: Based on the percentage of residents’
         top three choices, 56% indicated that walking path/trail was an amenity that residents
         have used the most over the past year. Other amenities used the most over the past year
         include: Playground (54%), picnic pavilion (38%), and rodeo grounds (26%).

RECREATION AMENITITES

        Need for Recreation Amenities: Based on the percentage of residents, 75% or 1,994
         households indicated that they have a need for walking and biking trails. Other recreation
         amenities households have a need for include: Picnic shelters/pavilions (68% or 1,815
         households), playgrounds (66% or 1,772 households), and trails along river (66% or
         1,764 households).



        Most Important Recreation Amenities: Based on residents’ top four choices, 47%
         indicated that walking and biking trails were a recreation amenity that are most important


©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                     Page 3

                                                Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015        105
                                                                                   The City of Bluffdale, Utah




               to their household. Other recreation amenities that are most important include:
               Playgrounds (41%), swimming (32%), and spray park/splash pad (26%).

      FACILITIES AND ORGANIZATION USAGE

              Usage of Facilities: Based on the percentage of residents who have used any of the
               facilities offered by communities near Bluffdale at least once, 44% indicated that JL
               Sorenson Recreation Center (Herriman) was one of the facilities used. Other facilities
               respondents have used include: South Jordan Fitness and Aquatics Center (38%), CR
               Hamilton Park (Riverton) (31%), and Salt Lake County Equestrian Park (South Jordan)
               (30%).

              Organizations Used for Parks, Recreation Facilities and Programs: Based on the
               percentage of residents, 58% indicated they have used Salt Lake County Parks
               organizations for parks, recreation facilities and program offerings during the past 12
               months. Other organizations residents have used include: Church facilities (55%), State
               and Federal parks/lands (53%), and City of Bluffdale (53%).


          DEVELOPMENT

              Emphasis of Development: Based on the percentage of residents top two choices, 85%
               indicated that the City should place more emphasis on the development of small
               neighborhood parks within walking distance of homes and with limited recreational
               facilities was the emphasis the Recreation and Parks Department should place on
               development. Other ratings of emphasis include: The City should place more emphasis
               on the development of large multi-use community parks that you would generally need to
               drive to and with a greater number of facilities (83%), the City should place more
               emphasis on the development of very small pocket parks or tot lots in your immediate
               neighborhood geared for 2-3 year olds (19%), and neither, no new neighborhood or
               multi-use community parks should be developed (14%).

              Southwest Regional Park: Residents were asked to indicate if they had heard about the
               development of the Southwest Regional Park. Seventy-four percent (74%) of respondents
               indicated that they have heard that Salt Lake County is developing the Southwest
               Regional Park within Bluffdale and just over a quarter (26%) has not.

              Amenities for the Southwest Regional Park: Based on residents, 79% indicated that
               pavilion shelter and restroom is an amenity they would use if developed in the Southwest
               Regional Park. Other amenities respondents would use include: Walking and biking paths
               (78%), large playground (65%), open lawn area (64%), and splash pad (63%).




              Upgrade and Develop Parks and Recreation Facilities: Based on percentage of
               respondents who indicated they were “very supportive” or “somewhat supportive” of
               actions the City of Bluffdale could take to upgrade and develop, 78% indicated they were



      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                            Page 4

106
                                                                                       The City of Bluffdale, Utah




         supportive of upgrading existing walking and biking trails. Other actions respondents are
         supportive of include: Develop additional walking and biking trails (73%), upgrade City
         Park (73%), and upgrade existing shelters and playgrounds (69%).

        Most Important Parks and Recreation Upgrade and Developmental Actions: Based
         on residents’ top three choices for actions the City of Bluffdale could take to upgrade and
         develop parks and recreation facilities, 37% indicated that developing an outdoor
         swimming pool was an action that was most important to residents. Other actions that are
         most important include: Develop additional walking and biking trails (33%) and upgrade
         existing walking and biking trails (31%).


    FUNDING OPERATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT

        Maximum Amount of Additional Tax Revenue: Twenty-four percent (24%) of
         respondents indicated that they would be willing to pay less than $4 per month in
         additional tax revenue to develop and operate the types of parks, trails, and recreation
         facilities that are most important to their households. Other maximum amounts of
         additional tax revenue respondents would be willing to pay include: $4-$5 per month
         (20%), $10-$11 per month (17%), $8-$9 per month (15%), $6-$7 per month (12%) and
         $12-$15 per month (11%).


    SPECIAL EVENTS

        Participation in Sponsored Special Events: Based on the percentage of residents, 62%
         indicated that they have participated in Old West Days over the past 12 months. Other
         special events respondents have participated in include: Rodeo (45%), Demolition Derby
         (31%), and Movies in Park (30%).

        Quality of Sponsored Special Events: Fifty-six percent (56%) of residents indicated
         that the quality of special events their household has participated in over the past 12
         months was good. Other ratings of quality of special events include: Excellent (32%) and
         fair (12%).




    OTHER FINDINGS




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                      Page 5

                                                 Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015        107
                                                                                     The City of Bluffdale, Utah




              Ways Residents Learn About Parks and Recreation Facilities: Based on the
               percentage of residents, 65% indicated that the City website was a way residents learn
               about City of Bluffdale parks and recreation facilities. Other means of learning include:
               Social media (39%), newspaper articles (37%), and from friends and neighbors (29%).

              If Respondents Would Visit City Website More Often if Updated: Seventy-one
               percent (71%) of residents indicated that yes, they would visit the City website more
               often for information if the City updated its website. Twelve percent (12%) indicated they
               would not visit the City website, and 17% indicated they were not sure.




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                              Page 6

108
                                                                             The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                                    Section 2
                                           Charts and Graphs




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                            Page 7

                                       Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015        109
                                                                                                                                 The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                             Q1. City of Bluffdale Parks Residents Have
                                                  Used Over the Past 12 Months
                                                                            by percentage of respondents



                                    Bluffdale City Park                                                                    75%


                             Bluffdale Rodeo Grounds                                                44%


                           Philip Gates Memorial Park                          17%


                          Parry Farms Baseball Fields                        14%


                                       Mt. Jordan Park                       14%


                                     Parry Farms Park                       12%


                                Ten Sleep Circle Park              5%


                                Bluffdale Heights Park            3%


                                        Ponderosa Park            1%


                      None, do not use any City parks                       13%

                                                          0%                  20%            40%               60%         80%       100%

                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                                            Q2. Parks Residents Visited the Most Often
                                                    Over the Past 12 Months
                                          by percentage of respondents who selected the item as one of their top two choices


                                  Bluffdale City Park                                                                     76%

                          Bluffdale Rodeo Grounds                                             38%

                        Philip Gates Memorial Park                      14%

                                     Mt. Jordan Park                    13%

                       Parry Farms Baseball Fields                     9%

                                   Parry Farms Park                7%

                              Ten Sleep Circle Park           3%

                             Bluffdale Heights Park          2%

                                    Ponderosa Park           1%

                                        None Chosen          2%


                                                        0%                  20%             40%            60%            80%       100%
                                                                                                    Use Most    Use 2nd Most
                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                          Page 8

110
                                                                                                                              The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                Q3. How Residents Rate the Overall Condition of Parks and Facilities
                               by percentage of respondents who have visited the parks and facilities in the past 12 months
                                                               (excluding “don’t know”)



                                                                                           Excellent
                                                                                             34%




                                                                                                            Poor
                                                                                                             3%


                                                                                                          Fair
                                             Good                                                         10%
                                             53%




              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                                 Q4. Additions Residents Would Like Made to the
                                 City of Bluffdale Parks They Visit the Most Often
                                                               by percentage of respondents


                           Restrooms                                                                48%
               Picnic tables/benches                                                          43%
                      Drink fountains                                                38%
               Playground equipment                                               35%
                                 Trails                                         32%
                             Pavilions                                        30%
                        Tennis courts                                   25%
                Park security lighting                                23%
                        BBQs or grills                               22%
                              Parking                               21%
                    Basketball courts                              20%
               Sand volleyball courts                             20%
                        Natural areas                           18%
                      Horseshoe pits                          15%
                            Sidewalks                        15%
                           Bike racks                     12%
                  Sports field lighting                 10%
                            Pickleball                 9%
                 Park entrance signs                 7%
                    Bocce ball courts               5%
                                  None                    12%

                                          0%                   20%                   40%                     60%                    80%

              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                             Page 9

                                                                           Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015                     111
                                                                                                                                             The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                                 Q5a. Park Amenities Used by Residents
                                                                         by percentage of respondents



                            Walking path/trail                                                                                         66%

                                  Playground                                                                                       63%

                               Picnic pavilion                                                                             56%

                              Rodeo grounds                                                             43%

                               Old West town                                                        41%

                            Basketball courts                                18%

                               Baseball fields                           16%

                                 Soccer fields                         14%

                     Grass volleyball courts                 7%

                              Horseshoe pits                6%

                                         Other         2%

                                                 0%                      20%                     40%                       60%                      80%

                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                                                  Q5b. How Residents Rate the Condition
                                                   of the Park Amenity they Have Used
                                                                         by percentage of respondents


                             Old West town                         42%                                    51%                            7%
                               Soccer fields                 30%                                   58%                                 8% 4%
                                 Playground                  30%                                  57%                               12% 1%
                             Picnic pavilion                  33%                                  53%                              13% 1%
                          Walking path/trail                      39%                                  47%                          12% 2%
                          Basketball courts               25%                                55%                                  18%        2%
                             Baseball fields                28%                             48%                                  20%         3%
                            Rodeo grounds              18%                           52%                                     26%             4%
                    Grass volleyball courts            19%                         44%                                     37%
                             Horseshoe pits           17%                          45%                               24%               14%
                                       Other          14%         7%               36%                                 43%

                                               0%                 20%              40%             60%                  80%                  100%
                                                                                     Excellent    Good        Fair    Poor
                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                                     Page 10

112
                                                                                                                              The City of Bluffdale, Utah




              Q6. Amenities Residents Have Used the Most Over the Past Year
                                   by percentage of respondents who selected the item as one of their top three choices


                       Walking path/trail                                                       56%
                              Playground                                                       54%
                           Picnic pavilion                                     38%
                         Rodeo grounds                                26%
                          Old West town                       18%
                          Baseball fields              8%
                       Basketball courts               8%
                            Soccer fields             6%
                 Grass volleyball courts         2%
                          Horseshoe pits         1%
                                    Other        1%
                            None chosen                     16%

                                            0%              20%              40%               60%                80%            100%
                                                                       Use Most    Use 2nd Most       Used 3rd Most

              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                              Q7. How Often Residents Use Facilities Offered by
                            Communities Near Bluffdale During the Past 12 Months
                                                                by percentage of respondents


                     JL Sorenson Recreation Center (Herriman)           25%        11% 9%                    56%

                      South Jordan Fitness and Aquatics Center           26%       6%6%                     62%

                                     CR Hamilton Park (Riverton)       18%    5% 9%                     69%

              Salt Lake County Equestrian Park (South Jordan)          20%     6%5%                     70%

                           South County Outdoor Pool (Riverton)             2%
                                                                       17% 5%                         76%

               C.R.Hamilton Family Sports Complex (Riverton)          12% 5%6%                        76%

                    Marv Jenson Fitness and Recreation Center               3%
                                                                       17% 3%                         77%

                                               Draper Outdoor Pool         2%
                                                                      14% 3%                         82%

                                             Riverton Senior Center       2%
                                                                      11%2%                          85%

                                                                  0%         20%        40%           60%         80%         100%
                                                                          1-9 Times    10-24 Times      25+ Times     Never
              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                            Page 11

                                                                             Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015                   113
                                                                                                                                           The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                    Q8. Residents Who Indicated a Need for Amenities
                                                                         by percentage of respondents


                          Walking and Biking Trails                                                                          75%
                           Picnic Shelters/Pavilions                                                                   68%
                                        Playgrounds                                                                   66%
                                  Trails along River                                                                  66%
                                          Swimming                                                              58%
                                       Nature Trails                                                           56%
                                        Sledding Hill                                                    50%
                            Spray Park/Splash Pad                                                       48%
                          Community Fishing Pond                                                  42%
                                    Rodeo Grounds                                               39%
                                      Amphitheater                                       31%
                            Outdoor Tennis Courts                                       31%
                                   Equestrian Trails                                    31%
                         Outdoor Basketball Courts                                     30%
                                            Ice Rink                                  29%
                      Youth Baseball/Softball Fields                                 27%
                          Indoor Basketball Courts                                  26%
                               Youth Soccer Fields                                 24%
                              Boating/River Access                                 24%
                                         Skate Park                        17%
                                   Disc Golf Course                        17%
                               Adult Softball Fields                     14%
                                Adult Soccer Fields                 9%
                                               Other              7%

                                                        0%                20%              40%                 60%            80%              100%


                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                        Q8a. Estimated Number of Households for the City of Bluffdale
                           that Have a Need for Parks and Recreation Amenities
                                        by number of households based on 2,673 occupied housing units in the City of Bluffdale

                           Walking and Biking Trails                                                                               1,994
                            Picnic Shelters/Pavilions                                                                      1,815
                                         Playgrounds                                                                     1,772
                                   Trails along River                                                                    1,764
                                           Swimming                                                              1,540
                                        Nature Trails                                                           1,505
                                         Sledding Hill                                                     1,339
                             Spray Park/Splash Pad                                                       1,288
                           Community Fishing Pond                                                   1,125
                                     Rodeo Grounds                                               1,040
                                        Amphitheater                                      839
                             Outdoor Tennis Courts                                        831
                                    Equestrian Trails                                     831
                          Outdoor Basketball Courts                                     797
                                             Ice Rink                                  762
                       Youth Baseball/Softball Fields                                 708
                           Indoor Basketball Courts                                  687
                                Youth Soccer Fields                                 652
                               Boating/River Access                                 647
                                          Skate Park                         465
                                    Disc Golf Course                         452
                                Adult Softball Fields                      385
                                 Adult Soccer Fields                 249
                                                Other              179
                                                          0                500            1,000            1,500           2,000             2,500

                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                                   Page 12

114
                                                                                                                                   The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                   Q8b. How Well Parks and Recreation Amenities for the City of
                            Bluffdale Meet the Needs of Households
                                                  by percentage of households that have a need for programs
                                                       Rodeo Grounds              37%                    38%             15%     8% 2%
                                                           Playgrounds           34%                 32%              24%        8% 2%
                                              Picnic Shelters/Pavilions        26%                34%              24%        12%  4%
                                             Walking and Biking Trails         25%             30%               28%          15% 2%
                                                     Trails along River        27%              28%             27%         12% 7%
                                                   Adult Soccer Fields          28%            23%          23%         13%     13%
                                                  Youth Soccer Fields         21%          24%            26%          16%      12%
                                         Youth Baseball/Softball Fields      19%          24%            27%          15%      15%
                                                          Nature Trails      19%         22%           25%            24%       11%
                                                      Equestrian Trails 13%        16%        19%          26%             27%
                                            Outdoor Basketball Courts
                                                                           24.1
                                             Indoor Basketball Courts 11% 9%
                                                                            16%

                                                   Adult Softball Fields 7% 12%
                                                                                    12%
                                                                                         18%
                                                                                             35%
                                                                                                 27%
                                                                                                   12%
                                                                                                            17%
                                                                                                                26%
                                                                                                                     49%
                                                                                                                           28%
                                                                                                                              19%


                                                      Disc Golf Course 7% 11% 13% 10%                             59%
                                                             Swimming 9% 9% 13%               14%                  56%
                                                            Skate Park 6% 9% 12% 8%                             65%
                                             Community Fishing Pond 8% 6%           17%      12%                  57%
                                               Outdoor Tennis Courts 4% 7% 12%            14%                    63%
                                               Spray Park/Splash Pad 4%4% 9% 13%                              70%
                                                         Amphitheater 4%4% 9%          21%                       62%
                                                 Boating/River Access 2%5%5%         21%                       67%
                                                           Sledding Hill 2%6% 9%      19%                      65%
                                                               Ice Rink 3% 4%5% 15%                          73%
                                                                  Other 5%    13%      18%                      65%

                                                                          0%       20%            40%             60%        80%          100%
                                                                               24.7
                     100% Meets Needs           75% Meets Needs       50% Meets Needs          25% Meets Needs          0% Meets Needs

              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




               Q8c. Estimated Number of Households for the City of Bluffdale
              Whose Needs for Parks and Recreation Amenities Are Only Being
                                    50% Met or Less
                                   by number of households based on 2,673 occupied housing units in the City of Bluffdale

                                    Swimming                                                                                      1,272
                                  Sledding Hill                                                                                 1,241
                      Spray Park/Splash Pad                                                                                  1,182
                    Community Fishing Pond                                                                        969
                    Walking and Biking Trails                                                               897
                                 Nature Trails                                                              892
                            Trails along River                                                        806
                                 Amphitheater                                                       773
                      Outdoor Tennis Courts                                                       738
                     Picnic Shelters/Pavilions                                                   726
                                      Ice Rink                                                  711
                                  Playgrounds                                            608
                        Boating/River Access                                             601
                             Equestrian Trails                                          598
                   Outdoor Basketball Courts                                           575
                    Indoor Basketball Courts                                          545
                Youth Baseball/Softball Fields                             405
                                   Skate Park                             398
                             Disc Golf Course                            371
                         Youth Soccer Fields                            357
                         Adult Softball Fields                        309
                              Rodeo Grounds                         258
                          Adult Soccer Fields               122
                                         Other                169
                                                   0                300            600                 900                1,200           1,500
                                                                50% Meets Needs          25% Meet Needs           0% Meets Needs

              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                                 Page 13

                                                                               Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015                      115
                                                                                                                                       The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                               Q9. Parks and Recreation Amenities that
                                                Are the Most Important to Residents
                                          by percentage of respondents who selected the item as one of their top four choices

                           Walking and Biking Trails                                                                                        47%
                                         Playgrounds                                                                           41%
                                           Swimming                                                               32%
                              Spray Park/Splash Pad                                                   26%
                                   Trails along River                                               25%
                            Picnic Shelters/Pavilions                                              23%
                                     Rodeo Grounds                                         19%
                                        Nature Trails                                     18%
                              Outdoor Tennis Courts                               13%
                                    Equestrian Trails                           12%
                           Community Fishing Pond                              11%
                       Youth Baseball/Softball Fields                          11%
                                         Sledding Hill                        10%
                                        Amphitheater                   7%
                            Indoor Basketball Courts                  6%
                          Outdoor Basketball Courts                   6%
                                 Youth Soccer Fields                 5%
                                          Skate Park                4%
                               Boating/River Access                4%
                                             Ice Rink              4%
                                    Disc Golf Course               4%
                                 Adult Softball Fields             4%
                                 Adult Soccer Fields              2%
                                                Other                  4%
                                        None chosen                           10%
                                                         0%                 10%          20%             30%              40%               50%
                                                          Most Important      2nd Most Important     3rd Most Important     4th Most Important

                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                         Q10. Residents Most Support the Recreation and Parks
                      Department to Place Emphasis on the Following Types of Parks
                                          by percentage of respondents who selected the item as one of their top two choices

                               The City should place more emphasis on the
                             development of small (2-5 acres) neighborhood
                            parks within walking distance of homes and with                                                           85%
                                                limited recreational facilities.


                             The City should place more emphasis on the
                      development of large (more than 10 acres) multi-use
                        community parks that you would generally need to                                                              83%
                            drive to and with a greater number of facilities.


                            The City should place more emphasis on the
                     development of very small (less than 1/2 acre) pocket
                         parks or tot lots in your immediate neighborhood                      19%
                                                    geared for 2-3 year olds.




                                 Neither. No new neighborhood or multi-use                  14%
                                     community parks should be developed.


                                                                                    0%       20%        40%         60%        80%          100%

                                                                                                   Most Support    2nd Most Support

                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                               Page 14

116
                                                                                                                           The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                     Q11. Bluffdale Sponsored Events Residents
                                    Have Participated in Over the Past 12 Months
                                                                  by percentage of respondents



                                   Old West Days                                                          62%


                                             Rodeo                                           45%


                                Demolition Derby                                  31%


                                   Movies in Park                                30%


                            Santa and the Lights                          22%


                       Halloween Trunk or Treat                        18%


                                 Easter Egg Hunt                       18%


               Freestyle Motocross/BMX Show                      11%


                                              Other         5%


                                     None chosen                          22%

                                                    0%              20%                40%          60%           80%           100%

              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                        Q12. How Residents Rate the Quality of Special Events Their
                          Household Has Participated in Over the Past 12 Months
                                                      by percentage of respondents (excluding “don’t know”)




                                                                                             Excellent
                                                                                               32%




                                                                                                         Fair
                                                                                                         12%
                                            Good
                                            56%



                                                                                                          Only 0.4% indicated Poor

              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                         Page 15

                                                                                Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015             117
                                                                                                                              The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                       Q14. Organizations Residents Use for Parks and
                                             Recreation Facilities and Programs
                                           by percentage of respondents who used programs and facilities over the past year



                                       Salt Lake County Parks                                                  58%

                                                Church facilities                                          55%

                             State and Federal Parks/ Lands                                               53%

                                                City of Bluffdale                                        53%

                                                School facilities                                40%

                                     Neighboring communities                                     40%

                                         Health Clubs (fitness)                                 39%

                                    Youth Sports Associations                            29%

                                                Lions Club Park                    20%

                     Homeowners association/apt. complex                          18%

                                    Private Clubs (golf, tennis)                 15%

                                                            Other      3%

                                                            None            9%

                                                                  0%             20%           40%         60%          80%       100%

                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                                        Q15. Whether or Not Residents Have Heard of the
                                          Southwest Regional Park Being Developed
                                                          by percentage of respondents (excluding “don’t know”)




                                                       Yes
                                                       74%




                                                                                                          No
                                                                                                         26%



                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                      Page 16

118
                                                                                                                          The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                          Q16. Amenities Planned for Southwest
                                         Regional Park that Residents Would Use
                                                                  by percentage of respondents



                Pavilion shelter and restroom                                                                     79%


                    Walking and biking paths                                                                     78%


                             Large playground                                                            65%


                               Open lawn area                                                           64%


                                    Splash pad                                                          63%


                      Rock climbing structure                                               47%


                        Multi-use sports fields                                       40%


                                  Tennis courts                                     38%


                              Basketball courts                                     38%


                None, would not use the park                7%

                                                  0%               20%            40%             60%           80%              100%

              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                                        Q17. Support for Upgrading and Developing
                                           New Parks and Recreation Facilities
                                                                  by percentage of respondents


                       Upgrade existing walking and biking trails         50%              28%      15% 8%
                     Develop additional walking and biking trails        46%             27%       17% 10%
                                             Upgrade City Park          40%            33%         18% 9%
                    Upgrade existing shelters and playgrounds          37%            32%         23%     9%
                                   Improve access to the River         36%          26%         24%     13%
                           Develop an outdoor swimming pool              44%          18%      19%     18%
                   Upgrade existing small neighborhood parks         30%          29%         25%      17%
                      Develop additional large and small parks        32%         24%         30%       15%
                         Develop additional youth sports fields     24%         29%          29%       17%
                                     Upgrade Rodeo Grounds            32%        20%        31%        18%
                 Upgrade existing tennis and basketball courts    19%         28%          35%         18%
                             Upgrade existing equestrian trails    22%       20%         36%         23%
                                  Upgrade City baseball fields   16%        26%          38%          21%
                            Develop additional equestrian trails  20%       18%         37%          24%
              Develop very small pocket parks for 2-3 year olds  15%     18%        33%            34%
                                                         Other 11% 0%                 86%                  3%
                                                                    0%        20%         40%       60%        80%      100%

                                                            Very Supportive   Somewhat Supportive   Not Sure    Not Supportive


              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                        Page 17

                                                                              Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015              119
                                                                                                                                     The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                     Q18. Actions Most Important to Residents for the City of Bluffdale
                                Parks and Recreation System to Improve
                                         by percentage of respondents who selected the item as one of their top three choices

                                    Develop an outdoor swimming pool                                                           37%
                           Develop additional walking and biking trails                                                  33%
                             Upgrade existing walking and biking trails                                              31%
                                            Improve access to the River                             17%
                                                       Upgrade City Park                            16%
                           Upgrade existing shelters and playgrounds                               16%
                              Develop additional large and small parks                             15%
                                               Upgrade Rodeo Grounds                               15%
                          Upgrade existing small neighborhood parks                             14%
                                  Develop additional youth sports fields                     11%
                                    Develop additional equestrian trails                     10%
                                      Upgrade existing equestrian trails                  10%
                        Upgrade existing tennis and basketball courts                     9%
                                            Upgrade City baseball fields             6%
                       Develop very small pocket parks for 2-3 yr olds               6%
                                                                    Other                 9%
                                                             None chosen                     11%
                                                                         0%           10%           20%          30%           40%          50%
                                                                            Most Important     2nd Most Important      3rd Most Important

                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                   Q19. Maximum Amount of Additional Tax Revenue Residents Are Willing
                        to Pay to Develop and Operate the Types of Parks, Trails, and
                            Recreation Facilities Most Important to their Household
                                                           by percentage of respondents (excluding “don’t know”)



                                                                                  $10-$11 per month
                                              $8-$9 per month                           17%
                                                    15%


                                                                                                              $12-$15 per month
                                                                                                                    11%
                                   $6-$7 per month
                                         12%




                                                                                                          Less than $4 per month
                                                 $4-$5 per month                                                   24%
                                                       20%




                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                             Page 18

120
                                                                                                                         The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                   Q20. Ways Residents Prefer to Learn about
                                  City of Bluffdale Parks and Recreation Facilities
                                                                  by percentage of respondents



                                 City website                                                              65%


                                Social media                                              39%


                         Newspaper articles                                           37%


               From friends and neighbors                                      29%


                      Flyers at City facilities                               27%


                   Flyers at school facilities                          22%


                      Contact with City staff                     15%


                                         Other                  13%


                                None chosen             4%


                                                  0%              20%                40%           60%             80%       100%

              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                           Q21. If Residents Would Visit the City Website More Often
                                  for Information if the City Updated its Website
                                                       by percentage of respondents (excluding “don’t know”)




                                                        Yes
                                                        71%




                                                                                                        Not Sure
                                                                                                         17%


                                                                                     No
                                                                                    12%


              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                       Page 19

                                                                                Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015           121
                                                                                                                        The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                Q22. Demographics: Ages of People Residing in Household
                                                                    by percentage of respondents




                                                                        Ages 10-14
                                                   Ages 15-19              8%                 Ages 5-9
                                                       8%                                       11%
                                            Ages 20-24
                                               5%
                                                                                                          Under age 5
                                                                                                             11%
                                      Ages 25-34
                                         14%
                                                                                                           Ages 75+
                                                                                                             3%
                                                                                                          Ages 65-74
                                                                                                             5%


                                                Ages 35-44
                                                   11%                                             Ages 55-64
                                                                                                      14%
                                                                      Ages 45-54
                                                                         11%


                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                                                  Q23. Demographics: Age of Respondent
                                                                    by percentage of respondents



                                                                  35 to 44
                                                                   21%
                                                                                                       Under 35
                                                                                                         21%




                                           45 to 54
                                            19%


                                                                                                         65+
                                                                                                         17%


                                                                      55 to 64
                                                                       23%



                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                Page 20

122
                                                                                                                   The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                                        Q24. Demographics: Gender
                                                                by percentage of respondents



                                                                            Male
                                                                            49%




                                                                        Female
                                                                         51%


              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




                                Q25. Does Anyone in Your Household Own A Horse?
                                                     by percentage of respondents (excluding "don’t know”)




                                                                                                   Yes
                                                                                                   24%




                                                 No
                                                76%




              Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                                 Page 21

                                                                             Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015        123
                                                                                                                       The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                    Q26. Demographics: Years Lived in the City of Bluffdale
                                                                   by percentage of respondents



                                                                                           5 or fewer years
                                                                                                  35%



                                          6-10 years
                                             19%




                                                                                                       Over 30 years
                                                                                                           11%
                                            11-15 years
                                               12%                                                26-30 years
                                                                                                      4%
                                                                  16-20 years     21-25 years
                                                                     12%              8%




                    Source: Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                               Page 22

124
                                                                             The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                                                 Section 3
                                                               Benchmarks




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                           Page 23

                                       Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015        125
                                                                                         The City of Bluffdale, Utah




                                              National Benchmarking

      Since 1998, Leisure Vision (a division of ETC Institute) has conducted household surveys for needs
      assessments, feasibility studies, customer satisfaction, fees and charges comparisons, and other parks
      and recreation issues in more than 700 communities in over 45 states across the country.

      The results of these surveys has provided an unparalleled data base of information to compare responses
      from household residents in client communities to “National Averages” and therefore provide a unique
      tool to “assist organizations in better decision making.”

      Communities within the data base include a full-range of municipal and county governments from
      20,000 in population through over 1 million in population. They include communities in warm weather
      climates and cold weather climates, mature communities and some of the fastest growing cities and
      counties in the country.

      “National Averages” have been developed for numerous strategically important parks and recreation
      planning and management issues including: customer satisfaction and usage of parks and programs;
      methods for receiving marketing information; reasons that prevent members of households from using
      parks and recreation facilities more often; priority recreation programs, parks, facilities and trails to
      improve or develop; priority programming spaces to have in planned community centers and aquatic
      facilities; potential attendance for planned indoor community centers and outdoor aquatic centers; etc.

      To keep the benchmarking data base current with changing trends, Leisure Vision’s benchmarking
      data base is updated on an annual basis and we only use citizen survey results going back a maximum of
      five years in our current benchmarking averages.

      Results from household responses for the City of Bluffdale were compared to National Benchmarks
      to gain further strategic information. A summary of all tabular comparisons are shown on the
      following page.

      Note: The benchmarking data contained in this report is protected intellectual property. Any
      reproduction of the benchmarking information in this report by persons or organizations not
      directly affiliated with the City of Bluffdale is not authorized without written consent from
      Leisure Vision/ETC Institute.




       ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                Page 24

126
                                                                                                               The City of Bluffdale, Utah



                            Benchmarking for the City of Bluffdale Community Surveys

                                                                                    National         Bluffdale
                                                                                    Average           (2015)
                   How would you rate the condition of all the
                   parks/facilities you've visited?
                                                                   Excellent           34%               34%
                                                                      Good             54%               53%
                                                                        Fair           11%               10%
                                                                        Poor            1%                3%

                   Organizations used for parks and recreation
                   programs and facilities

                            City/County Parks and Recreation Department                48%               53%
                                                       Neighboring Cities              26%               40%
                            Homeowners associations/apartment complex                  12%               18%
                                                Youth Sports Associations              17%               29%
                                                   School district facilities          28%               40%
                                                             Private clubs             22%               15%
                                                                   Churches            30%               55%
                                                         Neighboring Cities            23%               40%
                                                Health clubs/fitness centers           32%               39%
                                                        County/State parks             34%               53%




©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                             Page 25

                                                                       Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015          127
                                                                                                          The City of Bluffdale, Utah



                                   Benchmarking for the City of Bluffdale Community Surveys

                                                                                      National   Bluffdale
                                                                                      Average     (2015)
                         Parks and recreation amentities that respondent
                         households have a need for
                                                       Walking and biking trails        69%         75%
                                                          Playground equipment          43%         66%
                                                           Outdoor tennis courts        26%         31%
                                                      Outdoor basketball courts         24%         30%
                                                        Indoor basketball courts        27%         26%
                                              Youth baseball and softaball fields       21%         27%
                                                       Picnic areas and shelters        52%         68%
                                                                   Amphitheater         35%         31%
                                                                Splash pad/park         26%         48%
                                                                     Nature trails      53%         56%
                                                                     Sledding hill      41%         50%
                                                                Equestrian trails       12%         31%
                                                                   Fishing areas        34%         42%
                                                             Youth soccer fields        16%         24%
                                                              Adult softball fields     15%         14%
                                                                          Ice rink      26%         29%
                                                                      Skate park        14%         17%
                                                               Boat/river access        52%         24%

                         Most Important Parks and Recreation amenities to
                         Respondent Households
                                                       Walking and biking trails        42%         47%
                                                           Skateboarding parks           3%          4%
                                                         Playground equipment           20%         41%
                                               Youth baseball and softball fields        7%         11%
                                                      Outdoor basketball courts          5%          6%
                                                       Indoor basketball courts          7%          6%
                                                      Picnic areas and shelters         14%         23%
                                                                   Nature trails        19%         18%
                                                     Spray grounds/splash pad            7%         26%
                                                          Outdoor tennis courts          7%         13%
                                                               Equestrian trails         3%         12%
                                                                   Sledding hill         8%         10%
                                                                 Fishing areas          11%         11%
                                                            Youth soccer fields         16%          5%
                                                           Boating/river access         22%          4%
                                                                         Ice rink        7%          4%
                                                            Adult softball fields        4%          4%




      ©Leisure Vision/ETC Institute (2015)                                                                                  Page 26

128
APPENDIX B: Public Meetings




             Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   129
      Page left intentionally blank.




130
                                                             MEETING NOTES
PROJECT NUMBER:               # 14-063PLN                    ISSUE DATE:        February 4, 2015
PROJECT NAME:                 Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan


RECORDED BY:                  Jean Akers / Steve Duh
TO:                           FILE
PRESENT:                      Members of the Public
                              Staff from City of Bluffdale
                              Project Team Members from Conservation Technix & EPG
                              Staff from Salt Lake County



SUBJECT:            Park System Plan: Open House Meeting Notes (01/29/15)



Community members were invited to an open house on Thursday, January 29, 2015 at 6 p.m. at City Council
Chambers in the Bluffdale Fire Station. As the first of two public meetings for the Parks Plan, the project
team prepared informational displays covering three major themes for parks and recreation. These display
stations included Parks & Recreation Priorities, Trails & Linkages and Parks & Open Spaces. Attendees were
encouraged to talk with staff, record their comments and complete a written comment card. Additionally,
staff from Salt Lake County were present to provide information about the construction of the SW Regional
Park in Bluffdale and the Jordan River Greenway Trail.

City staff and project team staff engaged with participants to explore current issues, needs and interests
related to park, trail and recreation opportunities and needs.




COMMENTS PER DISPLAY STATION

The following represents a summary of the comments received at each display station.

Parks & Recreation System Overview Station
What do you value most about Bluffdale parks & trails?
         “Equestrian friendly trails and arena”
Jump forward 5 years. What can you see happening in the City with regard to opportunities for
recreation and activities?
         “Don’t forget horse trails”
What recreation opportunities are too limited or missing in Bluffdale? What is needed?
         “Splash pad. Kids want to get wet not swim.”




                                                        Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   131
      ParkSystemPlan:OpenHouseMeetingNotes(01/29/15)
      BluffdaleParks,Trails,Recreation&OpenSpacePlan
      ProjectNumber#14Ͳ063PLN
      Page2
      __________________

      Priorities Voting Board (tally of dots)
             5 – Jordan River Access
             3 – Multi-use paved trails (one for horses, one for biking)
             2 – Pavilions for picnics or gatherings
             2 – Multi-use recreation center
             1 – Additional or all-weather sports fields
             1 – Land acquisition for future parks
             1 – Sports courts (basketball, pickleball, tennis, etc.)

      -- Map Board & Chart Pad (sticky note comments)
             “Connect Jordan Trail better to Bluffdale trails”
             “Equestrian friendly & lead to/from arena”
             “Needs Northstar Elem, Summit Elem + Summit High School + Day Prop that JSD bought.”
             “Right now residents have their own green space. “1 acre”. This will not always be the case.”
             “This is an excellent point. Just because we are still rural doesn’t mean we shouldn’t plan like any
              other suburb.”
             “Signage – wayfinding + identification”
             “Fish Pond – community fishery”


      Trails & Linkages Station
      Where are the missing links?
             “Connections to/from city arena”
      What types of trails best suit your needs?
             “Don’t forget horse trails”
      What’s the average distance you prefer to cover when you use trails?
             “At least a one-mile loop. Connections help add flexibility.”
      What community destinations would be well served by direct and safe bicycle & pedestrian trails?
             “City park to Jordan River Parkway”
      Photo of Bridle Trails
             "This seems private”
             “Good signage that identifies use for equestrians”

      -- Map Board (sticky note comments)
          In area near/between city park & SW Regional Park:
           “Food services”
           “Needs connection”
           “Signage”



132
ParkSystemPlan:OpenHouseMeetingNotes(01/29/15)
BluffdaleParks,Trails,Recreation&OpenSpacePlan
ProjectNumber#14Ͳ063PLN
Page3
__________________


     In natural area of Jordan River (NE Bluffdale):
      “trail cams”
      “interpretive nature”
     NE Bluffdale area:
      “ bike trail 14600”
      “connect to Draper trails”
     Mid-section of Jordan River:
      “river park with access to water and trails”

* Discussions with trail advocate who made notations on this board focused on creating a river corridor trail system that allowed for
intention public access to the water’s edge for recreational enjoyment and some environmental educational value. He advocated for
providing information that would enhance awareness and appreciation for the waterway and its wildlife.



Comment Cards
         Bluffdale is the perfect mix where I can keep and ride my horse, and my husband is 30 minutes from
          a tech job. I would love to see the arena better kept with lots of open ride times and an accurate and
          current calendar. Trails that connect to/from the arena would also be nice. Husband and I love Old
          West Days.
         I moved to Bluffdale so I could still have a horse and a place to ride when I have an hour or two. I
          don't like to take half a day leaving town to go for a ride. I'm not asking for nice expensive trails, just
          some openings to allow us to get through without all the fences. I live up on 3400 W. They are
          starting to develop above me to the west and south. Please have the developers leave gateways so we
          can get off the roads and be safe. Thank you.
         Ponderosa Park was a up and coming park with open space and green grass. Now that the
          improvements to 14440 between 3600 and 3200 have been completed in 2013, the park is a complete
          eyesore not to mention a life and safety issue with standing water ALL the time! This retention pond
          is designed to collect storm water Boulden Ridge, 3200 W and Ponderosa. The city didn't have a
          place to collect the storm water from the 14440 improvement, so they connected it to the Ponderosa
          Park retention pond. Some people on 14440 still flood irrigate weekly, and that water goes into the
          storm drain and into the eyesore we see today. We need to redesign the pond, issue citations to the
          people on 14440 that are letting irrigation water into the system or disconnect 14440 completely! Quit
          putting a band-aid fix on improvements. The pond was not engineered for the 14440 improvement in
          the first place.
         Equestrian trails and natural hiking trails should have high priority - We are a rural community!
         Connect the new county park to City Park to new Jordan River connections, and we will win the trail
          lottery. Yes, that's a thing. Educate residents more about city hall options if it has to go into the park;
          can it at least go near existing parking? Please. Keep City Park big. Yes, we can add parking here and
          there, but it's impossible to find a large parcel later. Make path road bike friendly. Dirt and road bike
          tires, or dirt plus my knees = bad. It looks like the new Jordan River connections will help, but
          something needs to be done to 146th South for bikes. It is not safe, not even with a helmet. And a
          safety vest. Or a flashy light. Bathroom facilities in larger parks are great for families. I would love to
          see even a small indoor recreation center. If we don't call it a recreation center, is it easier to get
          approved? I drive to South Jordan 6x per week. I would love to keep that $30/week in the city.
          Thanks for reading all my passionate comments.




                                                                Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015            133
      ParkSystemPlan:OpenHouseMeetingNotes(01/29/15)
      BluffdaleParks,Trails,Recreation&OpenSpacePlan
      ProjectNumber#14Ͳ063PLN
      Page4
      __________________



      Every effort has been made to accurately record this meeting. If any errors or omissions are noted, please
      provide written response within five days of receipt.


      -- End of Notes --



      cc:   Grant Crowell
            File




134
                                                              MEETING NOTES
PROJECT NUMBER:                # 14-063PLN                    ISSUE DATE:        June 17, 2015
PROJECT NAME:                  Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan


RECORDED BY:                   Jean Akers / Steve Duh
TO:                            FILE
PRESENT:                       Members of the Public
                               Staff from City of Bluffdale
                               Project Team Members from Conservation Technix & EPG



SUBJECT:             Park System Plan: Open House Meeting #2 Notes (06/04/15)



Community members were invited to an open house on Thursday, June 4, 2015 at 6 p.m. at City Council
Chambers in the Bluffdale Fire Station. As the second of two public meetings for the Parks Plan, the project
team prepared informational displays covering three major themes. These display stations included Parks &
Outdoor Recreation Priorities, Trails & Linkages and Community Survey Results. Attendees were encouraged
to talk with staff, record their comments and complete a written comment card. City staff and project team
staff engaged with participants to explore current issues, needs and interests related to park, trail and
recreation opportunities and needs.




COMMENTS

The following represents a summary of the comments received.

General Comments
         Need more teen gathering places - stuff for teens
         Need a safer walkway along 14600 S just west of the railroad tracks. That would provide a nice loop
          walk from Philip Gates Park, 14600 S, to the Jordan River Trail, north to Madison River Trail to
          Bangerter and on around south to Philip Gates Park again.


Priorities Voting Board - Investing for the Future (tally of dots)
         10 - Multi-use paved trails (including horse trails / loops)
         7 - Jordan River Access
         5 - Multi-use recreation center
         3 - Sports courts (basketball, pickleball, tennis, etc.)
         3 - Playgrounds
         4 - Land acquisition for future parks
         2 - Pavilions for picnics or gatherings
         2 - Other (Shooting Range)
         2 - Other (Horse Trails)
         1 - Additional or all-weather sports fields



                                                         Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   135
      ParkSystemPlan:OpenHouseMeeting#2Notes(06/04/15)
      BluffdaleParks,Trails,Recreation&OpenSpacePlan
      ProjectNumber#14Ͳ063PLN
      Page2
      __________________




      Trails & Linkages Station
                 Find a safe horse trail connection from City Park to the Jordan River Trail
                 Link the rodeo arena to equestrian trails for longer loops and have trailer access points

      -- Map Board (sticky note comments)
                 * Numerous pathways were sketched on the map provided and will be evaluated



      Comment Cards
                 At the Springview Farms area, using the Madison River Trail and through Philip Gates Park, the
                  Jordan River Trail, and 14600 S sidewalk, a really nice loop can be done. But it is dangerous along
                  14600 S for about a half block distance on the immediate west side of the railroad tracks (just south
                  of Philip Gates Park). We just need a safer walkway (southwesterly) along the road.
                 Thank you for creating and maintaining the horse trails! With horse property, it makes sense to have
                  trails.
                 Please make sure the trails in Independence connect to the Jordan River Parkway. I know it needs a
                  bridge or something but it will go a long way to connecting the Independence community to the
                  larger city and the trail system.
                 Connection from canal roads to JRT that is horse safe; horse safe road crossings on busy roads
                  (14400 So, Redwood); horse trail loops connecting canal roads; possible safe horse trail along 14400
                 Connection from canal roads to JRT that is horse safe; horse safe road crossings on busy roads
                  (Redwood, 14400 S); possible horse loop by connecting canal roads; 14400 S too busy and narrow for
                  equestrian use
                 Big parks with sport fields



      Every effort has been made to accurately record this meeting. If any errors or omissions are noted, please
      provide written response within five days of receipt.


      -- End of Notes --



      cc:       Grant Crowell
                File




136
APPENDIX C: Stakeholder Notes




               Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   137
      Page left intentionally blank.




138
                                                                  MEETING NOTES
PROJECT NUMBER:                    # 15-063PLN                    ISSUE DATE:        May 22, 2015
PROJECT NAME:                      Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan


RECORDED BY:                       Steve Duh
TO:                                FILE
PRESENT:                           Dave Tolman
                                   Nate Shipp
                                   Steve McCutchan
                                   Grant Crowell – Bluffdale Planning
                                   Jennifer Robison – Bluffdale Planning
                                   Steve Duh – Conservation Technix

SUBJECT:               Stakeholder Session Meeting Notes: Local Developers (05/21/15)


Grant welcomed the attendees and provided a short summary of the project.



DISCUSSION / COMMENTS


The development projects are aiming for helping to establish a feeling of community. Including parks and
trails is a part of that. Residents have been interested in the tot lots and pocket parks now, since many families
have young children. As these children age, they may seek other recreation opportunities, such as field sports.

Recreation amenities could include:
x     pocket parks
x     trails
x     bowery / pavilion
x     fields
x     basketball
x     beautification
x     splash pads

Residents seem to want connections to parks with trails, places for kids to ride bikes, exercise options, and
having a sense of community and being able to interact with neighbors.

Future planning considerations:
x     field sport venues
x     larger venues / facilities
x     biking - safe and accessible




                                                             Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   139
      StakeholderSessionMeetingNotes:LocalDevelopers(05/21/15)
      BluffdaleParks,Trails,Recreation&OpenSpacePlan
      ProjectNumber15Ͳ063PLN
      Page2
      __________________

      x     trail lighting
      x     recreation center or facility (possible multi-use of sport courts for outdoor yoga or other programming)
      x     dog park

      If the Jordan School District isn't going to make use of the new property, would the City consider an interim
      use of the site for recreation (via agreement with District)?

      Developers are looking to the City for guidance on the level of development and on the facilities of interest.



      Every effort has been made to accurately record this meeting. If any errors or omissions are noted, please
      provide written response within five days of receipt.



      -- End of Notes --



      cc:     Grant Crowell
              project file




140
                                                               MEETING NOTES
PROJECT NUMBER:                 # 15-063PLN                    ISSUE DATE:        May 22, 2015
PROJECT NAME:                   Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan


RECORDED BY:                    Steve Duh
TO:                             FILE
PRESENT:                        Paul Bergera – Jordan School District
                                Ron Boshard – Jordan School District
                                Grant Crowell – Bluffdale Planning
                                Jennifer Robison – Bluffdale Planning
                                Steve Duh – Conservation Technix

SUBJECT:             Stakeholder Session Meeting Notes: Jordan School District (05/21/15)


Grant welcomed Paul and Ron and provided a short summary of the project.



DISCUSSION / COMMENTS


Safe Walking Routes (Safe Routes to School) Plan
x     Maps are available on JSD website, under Resources > Auxiliary Services
x     Safe Walking Routes requirements
       - routes cannot be on private property or cross ecumenical property; must be on public lands or ROW
       - must be maintained, i.e. snow removal, safe
       - can't be next to a canal (unless fenced)
       - catchment for elementary is 1.5 miles from access point; for MS and HS it is 2 miles


Day Property
x     New potential school site south of Independence (approx 40 acres)
x     Will not be developed in near term; district is land banking


Bluffdale Elementary School
x     Discussion of rodeo arena circulation planning and potential request for approximately 30' along the
      northern property line of the elementary school for one-way drive and pathway
x     Potential alignment may impact play area and sport field


Athletic Fields
x     District uses a rental agreement for fields and facilities, and most of the District fields are used by sport
      leagues and clubs.



                                                          Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   141
      StakeholderSessionMeetingNotes:JordanSchoolDistrict(05/21/15)
      BluffdaleParks,Trails,Recreation&OpenSpacePlan
      ProjectNumber15Ͳ063PLN
      Page2
      __________________

      x     Bluffdale Elementary School was not rented during this past year because the school hosted its own
            softball league and needed the use of the fields
      x     Field rentals are low cost and are $5 per youth per club per year
      x     Lacrosse uses middle school fields, and it is not a state-sanctioned sport for high school fields
      x     Regarding the field rental agreement, usage depends on the size of the field and age of the user group
            (youth, teen, adult). The District needs to balance the use of the fields with the appropriateness of the size
            of the field and with potential maintenance concerns
      x     Silver Crest Elementary - shared use agreement with Salt Lake County for their use of school fields for
            recreation leagues. The District sees such agreements as favorable.




      Every effort has been made to accurately record this meeting. If any errors or omissions are noted, please
      provide written response within five days of receipt.



      -- End of Notes --



      cc:    Grant Crowell
             project file




142
Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   143
144
APPENDIX D: Design Guidelines




              Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   145
Design Guidelines
The following is informational only, and it is intended to offer direction and guidance toward the future
design, development, re-development and maintenance of publicly-accessible, privately-constructed and/or
privately-maintained park and trail facilities.
The following are consistent with the park development standards outlined in this Parks, Trails, Recreation
Open Space Plan and can provide guidance for negotiating facility development opportunities in situations
when private entities propose development in-lieu of payment of Park Impact Fees and/or for other,
alternative arrangements.
All newly developed parks and trails shall adhere to the Final Guidelines for Outdoor Developed Areas as set
forth by the United States Access Board.




146
Neighborhood Park Design Considerations
  Minimum Suggested Amenities

    Amenity                          Considerations
    Amenity                          Considerations
       Playground                      ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 4,000 sq.ft. play area
       Playground                       ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 4,000 sq.ft. play area
                                        ¬¬¬¬ Equipment should be suitable for and developmentally-appropriate for toddlers and elementary
                                        ¬¬¬¬ Equipment should be suitable for and developmentally-appropriate for toddlers and elementary
                                        school-aged children
                                        school-aged children
                                        ¬¬¬¬ Playground should be ADA Accessible and play equipment should be ADA Compliant
                                        ¬¬¬¬ Playground should be ADA Accessible and play equipment should be ADA Compliant
       LoopWalkingPath                ¬¬¬¬ Minimum 6’ wide
       LoopWalkingPath                ¬¬¬¬ Minimum 6’ wide
                                        ¬¬¬¬ ADA-compliant surface to accessible elements (benches, tables, play area)
                                        ¬¬¬¬ ADA-compliant surface to accessible elements (benches, tables, play area)
                                        ¬¬¬¬ Pathway slope not to exceed 5% grade or no more than 8% for more than 30 lineal feet without
                                        ¬¬¬¬ Pathway slope not to exceed 5% grade or no more than 8% for more than 30 lineal feet without
                                        switchbacks or railings
                                        switchbacks or railings
       PicnicTables                    ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 2, with 1 meeting ADA-compliance as outlined by ADAAG for access, height, type, etc.
       PicnicTables                    ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 2, with 1 meeting ADA-compliance as outlined by ADAAG for access, height, type, etc.

       Benches                          ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 2, with 1 meeting ADA-compliance as outlined by ADAAG for access, height, type, etc.
       Benches                          ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 2, with 1 meeting ADA-compliance as outlined by ADAAG for access, height, type, etc.

       Openturfarea                   ¬¬¬¬ Provide at least 15% of total lawn area with irrigation, preferably adjacent to the play area
       Openturfarea                   ¬¬¬¬ Provide at least 15% of total lawn area with irrigation, preferably adjacent to the play area
       Landscaping                      ¬¬¬¬ Provide at least 2 shade trees near play area
       Landscaping                      ¬¬¬¬ Provide at least 2 shade trees near play area
                                        ¬¬¬¬ New trees and shrubs should be irrigated for a minimum of 2 years until established
                                        ¬¬¬¬ New trees and shrubs should be irrigated for a minimum of 2 years until established
       BicycleRacks                    ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 2, with capacity to serve 4 bikes
       BicycleRacks                    ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 2, with capacity to serve 4 bikes
       TrashReceptacles&Dog         ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 1
       TrashReceptacles&Dog         ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 1
       WasteDisposalStations
       WasteDisposalStations




  Additional, Acceptable Amenities
    Amenity                          Considerations
    Amenity                          Considerations
       Pavilion                        ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 400 sq.ft.
       Pavilion                         ¬¬¬¬ Minimum of 400 sq.ft.
       Sportfield                      ¬¬¬¬ Practice level for youth soccer, T-ball, baseball and/or softball
       Sportfield                      ¬¬¬¬ Practice level for youth soccer, T-ball, baseball and/or softball
       Sportcourt                      ¬¬¬¬ ½ court basketball court
       Sportcourt                      ¬¬¬¬ ½ court basketball court
       Tenniscourt
       Tenniscourt
       Alternativerecreation          ¬¬¬¬ Such as bocce ball, pickleball, horseshoes, lawn bowling
       Alternativerecreation          ¬¬¬¬ Such as bocce ball, pickleball, horseshoes, lawn bowling
       Skatespot                       ¬¬¬¬ 600 to 1,200 sq.ft. with small ramps, bowls or features for beginners
       Skatespot                       ¬¬¬¬ 600 to 1,200 sq.ft. with small ramps, bowls or features for beginners
       Discgolfcourse                 ¬¬¬¬ Minimum 9 baskets
       Discgolfcourse                 ¬¬¬¬ Minimum 9 baskets
       Sprayground
       Sprayground
       Naturalarea
       Naturalarea
       Waterfeature                    ¬¬¬¬ Such as a passive water-based amenity that provides a visual focal point, i.e. fountains, ponds, or
       Waterfeature                    ¬¬¬¬ Such as a passive water-based amenity that provides a visual focal point, i.e. fountains, ponds, or
                                        waterfalls
                                        waterfalls
       Restroom
       Restroom
       Drinkingfountain
       Drinkingfountain
       Utilities                        ¬¬¬¬ Automatic Irrigation, Electricity, Water
       Utilities                        ¬¬¬¬ Automatic Irrigation, Electricity, Water
       Parking
       Parking




Trail Development Standards
Trails should be constructed according to City Specifications. It is recommended that trail layout and
surfacing materials be approved by the City and meet the following requirements:
   ■     Trail width should be a minimum of 8 feet wide

                                                                                 Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015       147
   ■   For regional and community trails, a minimum 25’ wide right-of-way should be secured, with 44’ to 50’
       as optimum
   ■   Surfacing should be appropriate to the location; paved asphalt or concrete is recommended for upland
       areas, and crusher waste or boardwalks are appropriate in lowland, wet or sensitive areas (City codes
       shall apply)
   ■   Hard-surfaced trails should comply with ADAAG guidelines for slope and cross-slope; soft-surfaced
       trails should include properly placed and designed water bars or other surface water management
       techniques to minimize run-off and erosion
   ■   Entry signage should be provided at trailheads or access points, and boundary signage should be
       placed, as appropriate, to demarcate sensitive edges or private property boundaries
   ■   Trash receptacles and dog waste disposal stations should be provided at trailheads



Maintenance and Operations Standards
General Standards
Grounds
   ■ Grounds are mowed and trimmed.
   ■ Park is free of litter, debris and hazards.
Pathways
   ■   Pathways have a uniform surface and are level with the ground and free of trip hazards.
   ■   Pathways are free of litter and debris.
   ■   Pathways have unobstructed accessibility, i.e. free from low and protruding limbs, guide wires, etc.
   ■   Pathways are neatly edged.
   ■   Pathways are clear of weeds and grass growth in cracks and expansion joints.
Signage
   ■   Park identification signs are secure and properly installed in a noticeable location.
   ■   Handicap parking signs (as applicable) are secure, visible and to city code.
   ■   Signs are clean, painted and free of protrusions.
   ■   Ornamental Plants & Landscaping
   ■   Plants are healthy.
   ■   Plant beds are free of litter, debris, and weeds.
   ■   Plant selection is appropriate for season and area usage.


Playgrounds
Play Equipment
   ■ Play equipment and surrounding play areas meet ASTM and National Playground Safety Institute
     standards.
   ■ Play equipment and hardware is intact.
   ■ Play equipment is free of graffiti.


148
   ■ Age appropriateness for the play equipment is noted with proper signage.
   ■ Shade structure is secure and free from tears, if applicable.
   ■ Play equipment manuals and model numbers are to be retained by the owner.
Surfacing
   ■     Fall surface is clean, level and free of litter and debris.
   ■     Fall surface meets ASTM and National Playground Safety Institute standards.
   ■     Fall surface is well drained.
   ■     Rubber cushion surfaces are free of holes and tears.
   ■     Rubber cushion surfaces are secure to the base material and curbing.
   ■     Fall surface is in compliance with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Borders
   ■ Playground borders are well defined and intact.
   ■ Playground borders meet ASTM and National Playground Safety Institute standards.
Decks
   ■ Planks are intact, smooth, structurally sound, free of splinters and have no cracks greater than ¼ inch.
   ■ Nails, bolts or screws are flush with the surface.
   ■ Planks are level with no excessive warping.


Fixtures
Benches
   ■ Slats are smooth and structurally sound.
   ■ Hardware is intact and structurally sound.
   ■ Nails, bolts or screws are flush with the surface.
   ■ Seats and backing are smooth with no protrusions and have no exposed sharp edges or pointed
     corners.
Tables
   ■ Tables are clean, free of rust, mildew and graffiti.
   ■ Table hardware is intact.
   ■ Table frames are intact and slats are properly secured.
   ■ Table seats and tops are smooth with no protrusions and have no exposed sharp edges or pointed
     corners.
Trash Receptacles
   ■ Receptacles are clean; Area around trash receptacles is clean and free of trash and debris.
   ■ Wood receptacles are painted and free of damage or missing parts; hardware for wood receptacles is
     intact.
   ■ Concrete receptacles are intact and free of cracks or damage.




                                                           Bluffdale Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space Plan | 2015   149
Sport Courts
Surfacing
   ■   Surface is smooth, level and well drained with no standing water.
   ■   Surface is free of large cracks, holes and trip hazards.
   ■   Surface is painted and striped as per court specifications.
   ■   Worn painted surfaces do not exceed 20% of total court surface.
   ■   Surface is free of litter, debris, gravel and graffiti.
Goals and Backboards
   ■ Goals and backboards are level with hardware intact and painted as appropriate.
   ■ Nylon nets are properly hung and are not torn or tattered.
   ■ Support poles are secure in the ground and straight.


Restrooms
   ■   Restrooms are clean, sanitary and properly stocked with paper products.
   ■   Lights and ventilation systems are operational.
   ■   Toilets, water faucets, stall doors and hand air dryers are operational.
   ■   Restrooms are free of graffiti.
   ■   Restroom doors are properly marked according to gender.
   ■   Restrooms have clean trash receptacles.
   ■   Restroom doors and locks are operational.
   ■   Restrooms are in compliance with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act.



Additional Resources
   Consultant’s Guide to Park Design and Development; Park and Recreation Department, City of San Diego, CA.
       http://www.sandiego.gov/park-and-recreation/pdf/consultantguide.pdf
   Design Standards for Park and Trail Development (Specifications); Park and Recreation Department, City of Bellingham, WA.
       http://www.cob.org/government/rules/guidelines/park-design-standards.aspx
   Final Guidelines for Outdoor Developed Areas – United States Access Board 		
        http://www.access-board.gov/guidelines-and-standards/recreation-facilities/outdoor-developed-areas
   Handbook for Public Playground Safety - National Product Safety Commission.      						
      http://www.cpsc.gov/cpscpub/pubs/325.pdf




150
