                                  Bluﬀdale city
Who is filling out this report?
Caitlyn Tubbs
Planning Manager
ctubbs@bluffdale.gov
801-849-9466

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://bluffdale.gov/DocumentCenter/View/8521/Ordinance-2022-15---Adopting-Moderate-
Income-Housing-Element


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://bluffdale.gov/DocumentCenter/View/5099/2022-MIHE-of-the-General-Planpdf

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                            27
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
https://bluffdale.maps.arcgis.com/apps//index.html

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
The most recent zoning map amendment occurred February 26, 2025

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
1,493




                                                                                                  28
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
18

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
1,493

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
N/A we do not collect will serve letters; utilities providers sign final plat prior to recordation to
demonstrate availability.


Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
The overall cost of construction (labor and materials) remains high; public concerns regarding
increased density (traffic impacts) and expected demands on utilities (primarily
drinking/secondary water); geographical challenges (substantial grade changes), access across
utilities and canals are difficult to obtain from companies; limited amount of remaining
developable land; developers report interest rates are prohibitively high for securing funding.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
99 units entitled through Grove at Bringhurst Development Agreement, nearly 1,000 entitled
units are multi-family and owners' interest/financial ability to develop is currently limited.


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.




                                                                                                        29
How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Other
We utilize building permits and administrative land use permits to determine the total number of
existing ADUs, but we do not track whether the units are "for-rent" or if they are occupied by
guests/family of the property owner(s).

Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
58
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
5

Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
N/A - We do not require business licenses or permits to rent an ADU.


Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
8 administrative permits is.sued on top of building permits listed previously.




                                                                                               30
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
E
F
P

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
E
Our prior report anticipated the completion of our ADU Toolkit project in February 2025. This
toolkit is intended to make the ADU regulations more accessible to the community and to
provide resources for them to create site plans and investigate funding options.

F
Our prior report discussed the Reagan Cove Senior Living development which was entitled
through a higher-density zoning designation. The project, currently under construction, was
expected to be completed by December 2025, but the Developer indicates it may take a little
longer due to market constraints. In addition, our prior report indicated we would continue
discussing higher-density and rezoning options with the Community and City Council through
the FY 24-25 Year.

P
The City of Bluffdale provides an annual payment to the Bluffs Apartments to offset the costs of
rent and to maintain an affordable rent level. The prior payment to the Bluffs was made on July
1, 2024.




                                                                                              31
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
E
The ADU Toolkit was completed on December 12, 2024 and has since been published in the
citywide newsletter, on the city website and social media, and presented at numerous
community events. Residents have expressed a strong appreciation for the Toolkit and often
reference it when asking clarifying questions. Several property owners have submitted for ADU
approval since the Toolkit was published.

F
On February 26, 2025, the City Council approved Ordinance 2025-06 to rezone approximately 5
acres to entitle the development of 99 townhome units where 1 detached single family unit was
previously entitled. This rezone took place within the Bringhurst Station project area, which is
nearby Redwood Road, Porter Rockwell Boulevard, Mountain View Corridor, and Camp
Williams. The Applicant (Edge Homes) has now submitted a site plan and plat application for
the first phase of the new development and intends to begin construction by the end of 2025.

P
On July 3, 2025, Bluffdale will provide its annual payment in the amount of $116,530 to the
Bluffs Apartments to offset the costs of rent and building maintenance and to maintain an
affordable rent level.




4.      Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
E
Beyond completing the Toolkit no additional land use regulations have been enacted, however,
during the final review of the Toolkit the City Council expressed an interest in reviewing (and
potentially amending or removing) the prohibition on separate addressing and utilities metering.

F
Same as above.

P
Not Applicable; these payments were made as part of existing land use decisions.




                                                                                               32
5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
E
None

F
None.

P
None.




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
E
Community members and residents have expressed gratitude and excitement over the
published Toolkit and have expressed that it simplifies the application process.

F
The Developer has submitted a site plan and plat application for the first phase of the
development and is considering purchasing additional property to expand the development
further. The first phase includes 50 units and the second would include the remaining 49
currently entitled. We anticipate approval of the site plan and plat applications and
commencement of construction by late 2025/early 2026.

P
Payment to the Bluffs Apartments has resulted in a lower rental cost to residents.




                                                                                                  33
7.       Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
E
https://bluffdale.gov/883/ADU-Toolkit

F
https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/municipalcodeonline.com-
new/bluffdale/ordinances/documents/1740768802_ORDINANCE%202025-07.pdf

P




      Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
E

F

P




                                                                        34
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
N/A


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                    35
