-




    Update to Moderate Income Housing Element in
                 General Plan – HB 462 Compliance
             January 25, 2023, City Council Meeting
                                 CITY OF BLUFFDALE,UTAH

                                   Ordinance No.2023-04


 AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AN UPDATE TO THE MODERATE INCOME HOUSING ELEMENT
                        OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN


WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale Initiated a process to update the adopted Moderate Income
Housing Element of the City of Bluffdale General Plan;

WHEREAS this update to the Moderate Income Housing Element of the General Plan includes
alt elements required by HB462,Utah Housing Affordabllity Amendments;

WHEREAS the Planning Commission has reviewed and made a recommendation to the City
Council concerning the proposed changes to the General Plan pursuant to the Bluffdale City
Code and the Utah Code,and the City Council has found the proposed General Plan
amendment to be warranted and not detrimental to the public health, welfare, and safety of
the City of Bluffdale; and

WHEREAS the proposed, updated Moderate Income Housing Element of the General Plan set
forth herein has been reviewed by the Planning Commission and the City Council, and all
appropriate public hearings have been held in accordance with Utah law to obtain public
Input.

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
STATE OF UTAH,AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1. Adoption of updated Moderate Income Housing Element of the General
Plan. The attached Moderate Income Housing Element of the General Plan update (Exhibit A)
is hereby adopted In its entirety as the official Moderate Income Housing Element of the
General Plan of the City of Bluffdale, In compliance with Utah State Code.

       Section 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or
posting, or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first

PASSED AND ADOPTED BYTHE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,STATE OF
UTAH,THIS 25™ DAY OF JANUARY,2023.
BLUFFDALE CITY


                      CORPOW«
                         SEAU




ATTEST:




City Recorder


Voting by the City Council:
                                "AYE%   "NAY"
       CounciimemberAston
       Counciimember Crockett
       Counciimember Gaston
       Counciimember Hales
       Counciimember Kaiias
Exhibit A- Updated MINE ofthe City of Bluffdale General Plan
•       →
•       →


    o
    •




        o


        •




            o

            o

•




        o

        o
•


    o

•

    o



•

•


•




•

•
-
-
                                                                                 November 18, 2022
To:    Mayor and City Council
       Bluffdale City

From: Department of Workforce Services
      Housing and Community Development Division

Re:    Moderate Income Housing Report 2022—Notice of Non-Compliance

Dear Bluffdale City Mayor and City Council,

Thank you for submitting the Annual Moderate Income Housing Report. Following review of the
submitted plan and report, the Housing and Community Development Division has determined
that the submission does not fulfill the requirements set forth in State Code section 10-9a-408.
Please see the below description of deficiencies and actions the City must take to comply with
the Code.

Section 10-9a-403(2)(c) notes that the City shall draft implementation plans that establish a
timeline for implementing selected strategies, identify specific measures and benchmarks for
implementing each selected strategy, and provide flexibility for the municipality to adjust as
needed. Additionally, section 10-9a-408(2)(c) requires each municipality’s report starting in
2023 to describe action taken by the municipality towards implementation of the selected
strategies, including how each land use decision or regulation supports the implementation of the
moderate income housing strategies, barriers encountered, accessory dwelling unit information,
the market’s response to the strategies and implementation plans, and recommendations to the
State regarding how the State can support the municipality in implementing strategies. Thus,
implementation plans in the 2022 reporting year must be of a sufficient quality to show specific
details on actionable tasks, timelines for implementation, measures used to demonstrate progress,
and what resources the municipality will use to achieve the strategies selected.

Bluffdale City does not include an implementation timeline for Strategy F. If a strategy has been
implemented, is complete, or is ongoing, measures and a specific timeline for program
monitoring, review, or continued implementation must be included. Further, Strategies M and O
also do not provide a detailed implementation plan or timeline and do not appear to be intended
as part of the City’s adopted strategies as they are included as potential additional menu items.

                                                                        140 East 300 South, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
                                                                  Relay Utah 711 • Spanish Relay Utah 1-888-346-3162
                                                                jobs.utah.gov • Equal Opportunity Employer/Programs
       Deficiency Corrective Action: The City must update the Moderate Income Housing
       Element of the General Plan to identify actionable and specific benchmarks or measures
       with a timeline for Strategy F. If Strategies M and O are intended to be included in the
       adopted strategies, they will also need a detailed timeline and implementation
       benchmarks.

The Moderate-Income Housing Report requests a copy of the adoption ordinance for the General
Plan updates. The copy included in the Bluffdale City submission is unsigned. Please include a
signed copy of the updated ordinance and the updated General Plan when the city resubmits.

Please review the State Code sections referenced and submit your report using the form found
here: https://jobs.utah.gov/housing/affordable/moderate/reporting/.

Section 10-9a-408(6) allows for each community 90 days from the date after this notice is sent to
come into compliance with State Code. Per section 10-9a-408(7)(b), failure to cure the
described deficiencies in your municipality’s report by February 16, 2023 will make your
community ineligible for Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) Transportation
Investment Fund of 2005, including the Transit Transportation Investment funding and
the Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget (GOPB) Covid-19 Local Assistance
Matching Grant for the 2024 fiscal year.

The Housing and Community Development Division is available to help you work through the
noted deficiencies. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact Alyssa Gamble at
angamble@utah.gov, or schedule a time to meet with her using this link:
https://calendar.app.google/QfJHXwmR5WNtkhHh6.

Sincerely,

Alyssa Gamble
Program Manager – Moderate Income Housing Database
Housing and Community Development
Department of Workforce Services
•       →
•       →


    o
    •




        o


        •




            o

            o

•




        o

        o
•


    o

•

    o



•

•


•




•

•
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN


                                  - General Plan - Recently Adopted June, 2022
                                  - Housing Chapter for Context
                                  - Updated Moderate Income Housing Element to be
                                  added to Appendix




                                                                                     4.0 HOUSING

                                                        INTRODUCTION
                                                        Nearly two thirds (69%) of Bluffdale’s existing housing units are single-family
                                                        homes (Figure 4.1), according to data acquired from Bluffdale building permits.
                                                        The construction of townhomes and multi-family housing has increased over
                                                        the last ten years within the City (Figure 4.2). Bluffdale’s median household size,
                                                        median home value, and median income are higher when compared to those
                                                        in the southwest valley and the rest of Salt Lake County, indicating strong future
                                                        demand for housing in the City.

                                                        When likened to Salt Lake County, Bluffdale households spend more of their
                                                        income on the combination of housing and transportation costs, leaving a lower
                                                        percentage of remaining income for other essential household expenses.
Figure 4.1 - Typical single-family neighborhood along
2700 West in Bluffdale
                                                        4.1 EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                                        HOUSING STOCK
                                                        The majority of single-family housing stock in Bluffdale has been built in the last
                                                        twenty years on large lots on the west side of the City. The existing multi-family
                                                        housing units that have been built in the last ten years, have been predominately
                                                        on the east side of Bluffdale, and have consisted of small-lot single-family (Figure
                                                        4.2), townhome, and medium-density apartment developments.

                                                        Current zoning in Bluffdale permits accessory dwelling units (ADUs) as an
                                                        approved land use. Accessory dwelling units are currently defined as a secondary
                                                        unit within an owner occupied single–family home. Permitting and promoting
                                                        ADU’s creates the opportunity to provide housing with a greater diversity of
                                                        residential unit types and costs.

                                                        Areas with diverse housing options provide residents with more choices and are
Figure 4.2 - New housing development in Bluffdale.      more stable. These areas include a broad range of housing unit types, rental and
                                                        ownership options, and a variety of price levels.




                                                                                                                       4.0 HOUSING     36
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         HOUSEHOLD SIZE (FIGURE 4.3)
                                                         The median household size in the state of Utah is 3.09 people. The Salt Lake
                                                         County median household size is 2.95 people and is estimated to increase
                                                         to 3.26 people by 2025. Median household size in Bluffdale is reported to be
                                                         an average of 3.72. The southwest valley average has a slightly lower average
                                                         household size at 3.6.

                                                         In the last 10 years, average household size in Bluffdale has increased by 9.5%.
Figure 4.3 - Median household size comparison. Source:
                                                         The average household size in both Salt Lake County and in the State of Utah has
2020: ACS 5-Year Estimate
                                                         decreased. This data reflects Bluffdale’s population as both younger and having
                                                         larger families than the surrounding areas. Future regional trends will mostly
                                                         show a continued decline in median household size in developed and aging
                                                         areas and increases in median household size in new growth areas.


                                                         HOME VALUES (FIGURE 4.4)
                                                         Housing prices in Bluffdale have increased notably over the past several years,
                                                         commensurate with the same trend along the greater Wasatch Front. Values for
                                                         single–family units, multi–family units, and vacant land have all increased.

                                                         The median home value of owner-occupied units in Bluffdale was $482,100
                                                         in 2020. Bluffdale’s median home value is higher than that of Salt Lake County
                                                         ($336,100) and the southwest valley ($335,000). This discrepancy is likely due to
Figure 4.4 - Median owner-occupied home value in         the large home and lot sizes in Bluffdale compared to other cities. Median prices
Bluffdale. Source: 2020 American Community Survey
                                                         have risen considerably into 2022, with home prices increasing far more rapidly
5-year Estimate
                                                         than median incomes across the region.


                                                         INCOME SPENT ON HOUSING AND
                                                         TRANSPORTATION
                                                         Bluffdale households spend on average 37% of their monthly income on
                                                         housing, slightly above the Salt Lake County average of 32%. Most nearby cities
                                                         show percentages similar to Bluffdale’s. Other communities in the southwest
                                                         valleys, average 27% (Figure 4.5).

                                                         Bluffdale residents spend 16% of their income on transportation, which is similar
                                                         to 18% for the southwest valley, but lower than Salt Lake County, which spends
                                                         an average of 20% on transportation.

                                                         Decisions about new development should consider housing and transportation
                                                         costs. Proximity to transportation options and a variety housing types could help
Figure 4.5 - Income spent on Housing and
Transportation                                           Bluffdale keep housing and transportation costs manageable, making it more
                                                         competitive with other local municipalities for attracting and maintaining its
                                                         residential population.




                                                                                                                      4.0 HOUSING        37
                                                                                                      BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                 AFFORDABILITY INDEX
                                                 The Affordability Index compares the relationship between median household
                                                 incomes and median property values. Higher index ratios indicate a home that
                                                 is less Affordable to the median income household. Ratios decline as household
                                                 incomes increase (assuming constant property values), or increase as property
                                                 values outpace income growth.
Figure 4.6 - Affordability Index Graphic
                                                 Bluffdale’s affordability index value is 4.41, which is fairly close to the Salt Lake
                                                 County index value of 4.62 (Figure 4.6). This is due to the higher home prices and
                                                 higher household income than many other cities in the southwest valley and
                                                 Salt Lake County. The affordability index throughout the southwest valley is 3.73.
                                                 On a regional level, the southwest valley is still more affordable than Salt Lake
                                                 County, and by this metric the Wasatch Front is still more affordable than major
                                                 cities such as Portland, Denver, Las Vegas, Phoenix, and others.


                                                 CHALLENGES
                                                 PRESSURE TO EXPAND LOCAL HOUSING SUPPLY
                                                 Bluffdale’s housing challenges are shared by municipalities all along the Wasatch
                                                 Front. Figure 4.7 shows Utah Population growth. This growth is outpacing
                                                 housing supply and thus, housing costs are increasing and land available for new
                                                 greenfield developments is decreasing. The state-wide housing shortage puts
                                                 pressure on all local governments, including Bluffdale, to increase its supply.

                                                 DEMAND FOR VARYING HOUSING TYPES VERSUS LOCAL
Figure 4.7- Utah population growth (ksltv.com)
                                                 RESISTANCE TO GROWTH
                                                 Communities with insufficient diversity of housing types struggle to meet the
                                                 housing needs of current and future residents. This results in inefficient land use
                                                 and increased travel distances, transportation expenses, and higher costs for
                                                 municipal services and utility providers.

                                                 Bluffdale’s housing stock is predominantly single-family homes; however, recent
                                                 and planned housing developments have increased housing type diversity.
                                                 According to data from The Bureau of Economic and Business Research (BEBR),
                                                 Bluffdale has permitted more townhome-type and multi-family development in
                                                 the last decade than ever before. This data shows that Bluffdale is already making
                                                 progress toward an increased variety of housing types.

                                                 TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS KEEPING PACE WITH
                                                 HOUSING GROWTH
                                                 In order for transit departments, such as the Utah Transit Authority (UTA) and
                                                 the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT ), to invest in new transit options
                                                 within a city, a city needs to show that it has the future growth and interest to
                                                 support transit expansion. Bluffdale’s land uses consist mostly of larger lot single-


                                                                                                                 4.0 HOUSING     38
                                                                                                              BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                          family homes and low to medium-density townhomes. The existing future land
                                                          use map shows lower density land uses around potential transit hubs. Bluffdale’s
                                                          Future Land Use map that has been adopted as part of this general plan, shows
                                                          more favorable and transit supportive land use densities around future potential
                                                          transit hubs within the City.



                                                          4.2 FUTURE HOUSING
                                                          CONSIDERATIONS
                                                          The list of housing types described here is not exhaustive and some of the
                                                          terminology varies across different regions.

                                                          1. VERY LOW-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                          Bluffdale’s existing residential uses generally west of Redwood Road are
                                                          predominantly very low-density housing types. These are single-family homes on
                                                          a one-acre lot or larger. These very low-density residential neighborhoods shall
                                                          continue as existing housing or through the construction of additional very low-
                                                          density housing types.

                                                          VERY LOW-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                                                                » Single-Family Homes (Figure 4.8) contain one dwelling unit per
Figure 4.8 - Large lot single- family home (callithome.           building, one dwelling unit per lot, on lots that are at least one-acre.
com)
                                                                » Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) are separate, self-contained dwelling
                                                                  units located on the same lot as a primary residence, typically a single-
                                                                  family home. ADU’s are attached to the primary dwelling unit. Detached
                                                                  ADU’s are not currently allowed by city code.

                                                          2. LOW-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                          Bluffdale’s existing residential uses between Redwood Road and the railway
                                                          are predominantly low-density housing types. These are typically single-family
                                                          homes and form the City’s traditional residential neighborhoods.

                                                          Established neighborhoods shall continue to provide low-density housing
                                                          types in the form of existing housing or through the construction of additional
                                                          low-density housing types. Expanding housing options with a wider variety
                                                          of housing types and prices will help meet the needs of residents across the
                                                          housing life cycle while maintaining the low-density of Bluffdale’s established
Figure 4.9- Single-family home in Bluffdale               neighborhoods.

                                                          LOW-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                                                                » Single-Family Homes contain one dwelling unit per building and,
                                                                  typically, one dwelling unit per lot.




                                                                                                                         4.0 HOUSING         39
                                                                                                    BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                3. MEDIUM-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                Medium-density housing types are a critical component of housing life cycle
                                                and missing middle housing needs. These types are recommended in specific
                                                locations in Bluffdale, typically in places where land uses are transitioning to
                                                more increased diversity and densities. Some of these locations have been
                                                identified as neighborhood or city centers and some are located adjacent to
                                                high-density housing areas.
Figure 4.10 - Cottage cluster example
                                                Some of the medium-density housing types may be used as mixed-use
                                                buildings. These buildings typically have the non-residential uses located on the
                                                ground floor. Mixed-use buildings can help transition between a low-density
                                                residential neighborhood and the commercial uses in a neighborhood center or
                                                city center.

                                                MEDIUM-DENSITY CENTERS
                                                      » Porter Rockwell & Redwood Road
                                                      » Redwood Road- 14000 South to 148000 South
Figure 4.10 - Woodside Townhomes in Bluffdale

                                                MEDIUM-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                                                      » Townhomes and Rowhouses shown in Figures 4.10 and 4.11, are small
                                                        to medium sized structures, typically with four or more attached single-
                                                        family homes placed side by side, in a row.
                                                      » Stacked Flats share some characteristics with both apartments and
                                                        townhomes. Each unit is two-stories and one unit is stacked on top of
                                                        the other, resulting in a four-story building. Both units have doors on
                                                        the street, usually in a small alcove, making it look like one house. The
                                                        garages are typically in the back, on an alley.

Figure 4.11 - Townhomes example                       » Garden Apartments are housing complexes with multiple buildings
                                                        that are usually two or three stories tall. The complex has a garden-like
                                                        setting: low-rise buildings surrounded by lawns, trees, shrubbery, and
                                                        gardens.
                                                      » Mixed-Use Developments can be a horizontal or vertical mix of uses,
                                                        and contain a mix of both residential commercial units.
                                                      » Cottage Clusters shown in Figure 4.10 are a collection of small-scale
                                                        single-family homes that are oriented to an open space held in common
                                                        by the unit owners.
                                                      » Duplexes and Triplexes are small-sized structures that consist of two or
                                                        three side-by-side dwelling units, typically with individual entries along
                                                        the front. Similar in scale and look to a single-unit home.




                                                                                                               4.0 HOUSING     40
                                                                                                             BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         4. HIGH-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                         High-density housing is an important part of the housing life cycle. Higher
                                                         density housing types are generally only recommended on the east and south
                                                         sides of the City, in the ‘growth areas’ defined in the Land Use chapter.

                                                         High-density housing types can work well as mixed-use buildings. These
                                                         buildings make sense in urban centers where businesses, customers, and
                                                         residents benefit from increased foot traffic, walkable destinations, and close
                                                         proximity, as well as the general increase in activity both inside and outside of
                                                         regular business hours. Transit supportive housing density is a vital element to
                                                         attracting FrontRunner service, and other transit modes, in Bluffdale in the future,
Figure 4.12 - Rockpoint Apartments in Bluffdale
                                                         particularly in the Gravel Pit area where the highest development potential lies.
                                                         This is because transit service providers require cities to allow higher densities in
                                                         order to make service more viable.

                                                         HIGH-DENSITY CENTERS
                                                               » East 14600 South Corridor
                                                               » Regional Core (Gravel Pits)

                                                         HIGH-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                     Residential
                     Commercial
                                                               » Apartment Buildings (Figure 4.12) are typically three to five stories tall
                                                                 and may contain ground floor commercial units. The building contains
                                                                 several units that are accessed by one primary entrance, usually with a
                                                                 lobby and elevator.
                                                               » Mixed-Use Buildings can be two to six stories tall and contain
                                                                 commercial units. The building has units that are accessed by one
                                                                 entrance. Parking is often structured.
                              Vertically Mixed Uses
                              Typical Block
Figure 4.13- Vertically mixed uses (placemakers.com)
                                                         5. HOUSING IN MIXED-USE CORRIDORS AND
                                                         CENTERS
                     Residential
                                                         Locating residential uses along mixed-use corridors provides convenient access
                     Commercial
                                                         to major roads. The experience of living, working, and shopping in and around a
                                                         corridor is different than that in centers however, corridors add to the spatial and
                                                         functional diversity of the City.

                                                         Medium-density housing types can work well in a mixed-use corridor. Low-
                                                         density housing types, with their many driveways and frequent curb cuts, do not
                                                         work well along a major corridor. High-density housing types might be desirable
                             Horizontally Mixed Uses     in these corridors but make more sense in one of the city centers, at least in the
                             Typical Block
                                                         near- and mid-term. Mixed-uses can be represented vertically or horizontally
Figure 4.14- Horizontally mixed uses (placemakers.com)
                                                         along corridors, as exemplified in Figures 4.13 and 4.14.




                                                                                                                        4.0 HOUSING      41
                                                                                                                      BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         6. HOUSING DENSITY AND WATER
                                                         CONSERVATION
                                                        Higher-density development, may be a better way to protect water resources. A
                                                        recent study by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (Figure 4.15) intends
                                                        to help guide communities through this debate to better understand the
                                                        impacts of high- and low-density development on water resources.

                                                        The EPA examined stormwater runoff from different development densities
                                                        to determine the comparative difference between scenarios. This analysis
                                                        demonstrated:
                                                               » Higher-density scenarios generate less stormwater runoff per house
                                                                 at all scales— one acre, lot, and watershed—and time series build-out
                                                                 examples;
                                                               » For the same amount of development, higher-density development
                                                                 produces less runoff and less impervious cover than low-density
                                                                 development; and
                                                               » For a given amount of growth, lower-density development impacts
                                                                 more of the watershed.
Figure 4.15 - Protecting Water Resources with Higher-
Density Development study, performed by Office of       Taken together, these findings indicate that low-density development may not
Sustainable Communities Smart Growth Program.
                                                        always be the preferred strategy for protecting water resources. Higher densities
                                                        may better protect water quality—especially at the lot and watershed levels. To
                                                        accommodate the same number of houses, denser developments consume less
                                                        land than lower density developments. Consuming less land means creating less
                                                        impervious cover in the watershed. EPA believes that increasing development
                                                        densities is one strategy communities can use to minimize regional water quality
                                                        impacts. To fully protect water resources, communities need to employ a wide
                                                        range of land use strategies, based on local factors, including building a range of
                                                        development densities, incorporating adequate open space, preserving critical
                                                        ecological and buffer areas, and minimizing land disturbance (Figure 4.15).1




                                                        1 Source: Protecting Water Resources With Higher-Density Development, Office of Sustainable Communi-
                                                        ties Smart Growth Program, United States Environmental Protection Agency


                                                                                                                                   4.0 HOUSING        42
                                                                                                  BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                 4.3 POLICIES + IMPLEMENTATION
                                                 GOAL 1: Retain character of established neighborhoods

                                                 Policies
                                                 1. Consider specific location and surrounding neighborhood when reviewing
                                                    and evaluating new or infill development.

                                                 Implementation Strategies
Figure 4.16- Residential infill example
                                                 1. Amend zoning ordinance in single-family zones to ensure context sensitivity
                                                    of location and density of infill (Figure 4.16) and new development.

                                                 GOAL 2: Provide a variety of high-quality housing choices
                                                 that incorporates a range of types, tenancies, & densities
                                                 (Figure 4.17).

                                                 Policy
                                                 1. Support alternative housing types in the City, and coordinate and align
                                                    Housing and Land Use chapters within the General Plan.

                                                 Implementation Strategy
Figure 4.17 - ‘Gentle density’ housing example   1. Develop clear guidance of potential future locations for housing density.

                                                 GOAL 3: Ensure new housing stock addresses all income
                                                 levels and life stages.

                                                 Policy
                                                 1. Encourage flexible housing guidelines to respond to evolving market
                                                    conditions.

                                                 Implementation Strategy
                                                 2. Adopt land use regulations that develop as the housing market changes for
                                                    different populations of residents.




                                                                                                             4.0 HOUSING        43
                                                   BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




4.4 STATE HOUSING PLAN
REQUIREMENTS
Bluffdale has already begun to address the 2019 State of Utah requirement to
provide a moderate income housing plan within five years. This is a challenge
faced by all municipalities along the Wasatch Front as they collectively address
continuous population growth. Further discussion on Moderate Income Housing
can be found in the General Plan Toolkit chapter as well as the appendix of this
document.

 Recommendations
1. Better coordinate land use and transportation planning.
2. Develop community support for housing policy changes.
3. Support increased variety of housing options.
4. Update zoning ordinance in key areas to support mixed-use developments
   and reduce impact and permit fees.




                                                             4.0 HOUSING    44
