                                 CITY OF BLUFFDALE,UTAH

                                   Ordinance No.2022-15


 AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AN UPDATE TO THE MODERATE INCOME HOUSING ELEMENT
                        OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN


WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale initiated a process to update and adopt a new Moderate
Income Housing Element of the City of Bluffdale General Plan;

WHEREAS this update to the Moderate Income Housing Element of the General Plan includes
all elements required by HB462, Utah Housing Affordability Amendments;

WHEREAS the Planning Commission has reviewed and made a recommendation to the City
Council concerning the proposed changes to the General Plan pursuant to the Bluffdale City
Code and the Utah Code,and the City Council has found the proposed General Plan
amendment to be warranted and not detrimental to the public health, welfare and safety of
the City of Bluffdale; and

WHEREAS the proposed, updated General Plan set forth herein has been reviewed by the
Planning Commission and the City Council, and all appropriate public hearings have been
held in accordance with Utah law to obtain public input regarding the proposed, updated
Moderate Income Housing Element of the General Plan.

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
STATE OF UTAH,AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. Adoption of Moderate Income Housing Element of the General Plan.
The attached Moderate Income Housing Element of the General Plan {Exhibit A) is hereby
adopted in its entirety as the official Moderate Income Housing Element of the General Plan
of the City of Bluffdale, in compliance with Utah State Code.

       Section 2.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or
posting, or thirty(30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,STATE OF
UTAH,THIS 14™ DAY OF SEPTEMBER,2022.
BLUFFDALECITY




                        corporate


ATTEST:




            r
Cltv Recorden




Voting by the City Council:
                                    "AYE"   "NAY"
       Counclimember Aston
       Counclimember Crockett
       Counclimember Gaston
       Counclimember Hales
                                    5
       Counclimember Kallas
Exhibit A - Updated MINE ofthe City of Bluffdale General Plan
    MODERATE INCOME HOUSING ELEMENT PER HB 462


   Bluffdale has previously addressed the S.B.34 Affordable Housing Requirements in 2019,to provide a Moderate
   Income Housing Plan (MIH). This requirement helps to address the challenge faced by all municipalities along the
   Wasatch Front as they collectively address continuous population growth. Following the creation of strategies to
   implement the MIH requirements, Bluffdale has annually reported progress of those strategies per State
   requirements.

   As of April 2022,HB 462 was passed by the Utah Legislature, which revised Moderate Income Housing strategies and
   reporting requirements. Bluffdale, like most municipalities across the Wasatch front, has been instructed to reassess
   strategies and add additional strategies, as applicable. It is also required to provide an implementation plan
   regarding those strategies in the housing element of the General Plan by October 1,2022, as well as provide an
   updated annual report to the department of Housing & Community Development. Subsequent years will require
   further reporting on the implementation of those strategies with specific efforts outlined, where possible.

   The following strategies were implemented in the 2019 MIH:
           1. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, accessory dwelling units(ADUs)in residential zones
          2. Allow for higher density or moderate-income residential development in commercial and mixed-use
              zones,commercial centers, or employment centers
          3. Utilize a MIH set aside from a community reinvestment agency,redevelopment agency,or community
              development and renewal agency

   Bluffdale's utilized strategies have updated statutory language as per amendments to the Moderate Income Housing
/'^requirements, HB462:
           1. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to,internal or detached accessory dwelling units in
               residential zones
          2. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-income residential development in commercial or mixed-
              use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers,or employment centers
          3. Demonstrate utilization of a moderate-income housing set aside from a community reinvestment
              agency, redevelopment agency,or community development and renewal agency to create or subsidize
              moderate income housing
   *Bold text= revised language

   The three strategies - as amended by Utah Code - are still applicable to Bluffdale and will be further implemented and
   clarified with the revised language,found in this Moderate Income Housing update.

   In addition to the three existing strategies, the updated State Law suggests identifying four or five strategies to go
   beyond the minimum and to potentially receive additional favorable criteria in State ranked transportation and
   transit funding. HB 462 requires municipalities and counties to further implement affordable housing strategies that
   are more robust and better reflect efforts to provide moderate income housing in the state. There are incentives to
   provide 4,5, or more strategies(beyond the minimum of three)to accelerate efforts for affordable housing. Those
   incentives involve greater prioritization for a municipality,for instance, in receiving Transportation Project Funding
   (TIF/TTIF)from the Transportation Commission.

   The following new strategies have been added for future, more specific implementation.
          4. Demonstrate creation of,or participation in, a community land trust program for moderate income
             housing.
            5. Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives to promote the
               construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for programs offered by the Utah
               Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing
               programs administered by the Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable
               housing programs administered by an association of governments established by an interlocal agreement
               under Title 11, Chapter 13,Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a
               public housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing,or any other entity that
               applies for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate income
                housing


    IMPLEMENTATION AND TIMELINE OF STRATEGIES


            1. Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to,internal or detached accessory dwelling units in
                residential zones


    Implementation
    The Accessory Dwelling Unit ordinance was updated in 2019 to streamline the process of approval by amending the
    ordinance and approval process from a conditional use to a permitted use in single family residential areas
    throughout the City. ADU permits previously required Conditional Use Permit approval and a public hearing - now the
    approval is administrative by the Zoning Administrator. This allows the process to be shorter in duration,less costly,
    and more efficient for the applicant and the city staff. The ADU ordinance was extended to allow accessory dwelling
    units in ail single-family residential zones, which allows for more units and more household types to attain an ADU.

   Additionally,elements of the strategy are to familiarize the public with the ADU process and encourage them to create
/^^a legal ADU with our application process. Further implementation to assist the public in understanding the ADU
   ordinance can be done by providing a guide sheet for ADU permits on the website. The intended outcome is to result
   in more legal ADU permits. This guide sheet will provide guidance for the ordinance, contain the application link, and
   will also contain text to encourage the public to come in and attain an ADU permit if there is an existing/potential ADU
   in the main dwelling.

    Timeline
        • 2022/2023       Add a sheet for ADUs guide/faqs sheet to the City Website
        • 2022/2023 -> Educate City Council about detached ADUs & discuss possibilities of making them legal and
          changing city code to allow current detached dwelling structures to become legal with a streamlined ADU
            permit process.
                o If determined as appropriate policy, discuss strategies to encourage those with current illegal ADUs to
                  become legal and to meet adopted building codes.




            2. Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed-
               use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers,or employment centers

    Implementation
    Over the past few years, development in Bluffdale has increased substantially. Historically, Bluffdale has been largely
    single-family, 1-acre property,farms,etc. The western,larger portion of the city is primarily single-family zoning,as
    that is highly valued by its citizens. Several years ago, however, multi-family residential development has been
''^^implemented on the east side ofthe city. Specifically,a Mixed-Use Zone was created, with some commercial live-work
    units implemented as part of a larger multi-family and mixed-use residential project(Independence master planned
    community). More recently in the last few years, other zoning applications and development projects have occurred
   on the west side of Bluffdale, near residential and commercial zoning,as well as near major entrances of the city. The
   areas, with proximity to major roads, highways,and connections to other cities, have been ideal for implementing
^ nodes of commercial and some potential multi-family housing development. In the last 1-2 years,specific rezones
 ^have occurred to allow a diverse mix of housing that has been lacking in the city. The zone changes have been key to
    provide housing flexibility for varying ages,stages of life,family size, etc.

       • A Senior housing zone was created in 2021: SL-Residential Zone {Senior-Living Residential Zone)and a 55+
         development was approved for 28 attached housing units near a commercial and transportation corridor. It's
         targeted toward seniors in the community to provide an opportunity to age in place, near their families in the
         same city. This development is in a key commercial node, near one of the major entrances into the city.

       • A Special District Zone: The Centrum at Bluffdale Mixed Use Special District, has also been created, which will
         provide commercial property as well as 236 multi-family residential units, including studio,one-bedroom and
         two-bedroom units, near a major transportation corridor. Porter Rockwell Boulevard. This parcel is also near
            1-15 and The Point, which will contain the closest transit nodes to the City of Bluffdale.

       • A large assisted-living facility is in the application review stage as well, having been approved for a recent
         zone change to Neighborhood Commercial,to allow that use to be allowed with conditions, in a key
         commercial node and near a major transportation corridor. This will be a unique opportunity for the city to
         have a place for elderly in need of memory care and physical assistance that is otherwise not present in the
            city.

    Going forward,other zones like special-district zones, may be proposed by landowners near transportation corridors
    and may occur,following the example of approved zones before them. If approved,they will likely provide a similar
    distribution of multi-family housing within mixed use areas of the community.

'^^N'imeline
       • Currently,the subdivision for the senior living zone is in review,soon to be approved for construction. Site
         plan has been previously approved.
       • Special-District Zone:The Centrum at Bluffdale was adopted on January 12,2022. The property owner is
         proposing an amendmentfor additional dwelling units, to be determined.

       • Continue the assisting-living development through a site plan application process with an associated
         conditional use permit.




            3. Demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a community reinvestment
               agency, redevelopment agency,or community development and renewal agency to create or subsidize
               moderate income housing

    Implementation:
   The funds provided for Moderate Income Housing in Bluffdale city are reviewed annually, and continuously provided
   for owners to offset maintenance and upkeep costs. We will continue to make regular payment to those local
    affordable apartment owners.

       • Currently making annual payments to The Bluffs apartments, an income restricted apartment community,to
         offset operation costs
       • FY22-23 Budget allocated $1M from the Eastern Bluffdale Economic Development Area for affordable housing
   Timeline:


    2022/2023: Work with the non-profit, HousingConnect, or other resources at Salt Lake County for additional
                                                 accu
   ^opportunities within the city to utilize our accumulated affordable housing funds. Other non-profits which meet the
    state criteria may also be evaluated as options.


   Considerations of Potential Additional Menu Items


   The following additional menu items may potentially be added to our housing menu item strategies to increase our
   efforts in combatting our state's affordable housing dilemma. These two additional items are part of the updated
   menu items with the recent HB462 state housing code

   Item #4 may be possible as we are researching a potential land trust program to be able to participate in. Our primary
   goal for this item will be to further research and contact potential land trusts to see how viable participation is for our
   City.The menu item #4 had slightly different wording: Participate in a community land trust program for low or
   moderate income housing. The language was updated slightly to the current menu item below.

           4. Demonstrate creation of,or participation in, a community land trust program for moderate income
              housing

   The S"' menu item, however,is in progress and could potentially supplement current #3. We have been able to discuss
   about the funds from our RDA directly with those in the State Housing Department and Salt Lake County, who we are
   seeking assistance from,to coordinate/partner with an entity, Housing Connect or similar, qualified non-profit.
   Our next step is to decide the form the partnership takes. Once we learn more about that process and available
^ options, we can proceed with coordinating the funds to be provided for moderate income housing. The specifics of
   where exactly, or in what manner,that may go,in regards to moderate income housing, is yet to be determined. We
   have already obtained a contract template from HousingConnect to better understand and evaluate the legal terms
   and conditions of such exchange of funds.

           5. Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives to promote the
              construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for programs offered by the Utah
              Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing
              programs administered by the Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable
              housing programs administered by an association of governments established by an interlocal agreement
               under Title 11, Chapter 13,Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a
               public housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing,or any other entity that
               applies for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate income
               housing.
           m
SALT LAKE
COUNTY


  This notice is given pursuant to Utah Code, annotated 17-27a-203, and is being sent to those
  entitled to such notice under Utah Code, annotated 17-27a-204.

  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that Salt Lake County intends to revise and adopt the Moderate Income
  Housing Element to the General Plan. The proposed amendment revises the existing Moderate
  Income Housing Element for Unincorporated Salt Lake County (adopted in 2019) to ensure
  compliance with new requirements adopted by the State Legislature during the 2022 Legislative
  Session. These legislative changes include updated Moderate Income Housing strategies and new
  requirements for Implementation programs.

  The public and each of the affected entities are invited to provide information for Salt Lake
  County to consider in the process of reviewing the proposed plan adoption. Interested parties
  are encouraged to subscribe to future notices through the Utah State Public Notice website
  (utah.gov/pmn/index.html) to receive further information, including meeting agendas and any
  other issues related to the General Plan amendment process. For additional information
  concerning this proposed general plan amendment, please contact Kayla Mauldin, Senior Long
  Range Planner, at(385)468-6699 or by email at KMauldin@msd.utah.gov.




            Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street, N3-600 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
                                                http8://msd.utah.gov
