                                     Logan city
Who is filling out this report?
Mike DeSimone
Director Community Development
mike.desimone@loganutah.gov
435.716.9022

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://cms9files.revize.com/loganut/departments/admin/council/22-
46%20Amended%202022%20Moderate%20Income%20Housing%20Plan.pdf


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://www.loganutah.gov/government/departments/community_development/projects_and_pla
ns.php#outer-2824

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                           453
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
Uploaded.

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
6-May-25

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
2,801

Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the




                                                                                                454
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
342

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
337

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
1,400


Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
Cost of construction, cost of borrowing (lending) high, market demand is slowing, some vacant
lots are used for additional yard space with existing sfr's.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
Evaluated most recent development approvals, pending building permits, current construction
data and aerial photos to determine numbers.


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Other
Landlord Licenses




                                                                                               455
Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
8
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
3

Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
6 active Landlord Licenses


Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
0




                                                                                       456
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
E
O
N
V
F

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
E
Adopted Ordinance 24-18 (10.1.24) revising Land Development ADU standards (17.37.070).

O
Explore partnership opportunities with Neighborhood Non Profit and/or others (Bear River
Association of Governments) to produce MIH on City owned property at 300 North & 100 East

N
Work with local homebuilders or others to develop a Workforce Housing Priority Program
available for public employees, teachers, first responders, veterans, and first time homebuyers.
V
2024 - Hire a consultant to prepare an updated Logan City General Plan.Logan City initiated the
Logan 2045 General Plan project to prepare a new Citywide General Plan. This new General
Plan will update policy and land use regulations creating and/or allowing multifamily residential
dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and
located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones. The “missing middle”
type of housing is specifically being contemplated in many of the city’s traditionally detached
residential neighborhoods and/or zones.




                                                                                              457
F
Logan City initiated the Logan 2045 General Plan project to prepare a new Citywide General
Plan. This new General Plan will update policy and land use regulations affecting increased
residential densities in commercial or mixed use zones near transit, commercial or employment
centers.




3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
E
Adopted Ordinance 24-18 October 1, 2024 expanding ADU’s citywide, eliminated the existing
ADA exclusionary zone around Utah State University, expanded ADU’s to all zones (not just
residential zones), and expanded the allowable types of ADU’s from only internal ADU’s to all
types of ADU’s.

O
Logan City has an agreement with the Bear River Association of Government (BRAG) to
collaborate on MIH housing located on City owned property at 300 North & 100 East. BRAG
functions as the Logan Housing Authority and administers the Section 8 housing voucher
program for Logan City.

N
In 2022, Logan City improved 100 West including a new bridge over the Logan River. In order to
have sufficient ROW and construct these improvements, the City acquired adjoining properties
that included three existing single family residential dwellings. These homes were removed to
make way for the road and bridge improvements. Originally, the remaining property post road
improvements were going to remain as vacant parcels used for either parking or just
landscaped and maintained. City Staff approached the Mayor about converting this residual
property into moderate income housing. The net result is that the site, which contains land area
on either side of 100 West (600 South), will contain 8 new, income qualified, owner occupied
homes labeled as Workforce Housing and targeted towards public employees, teacher, etc.
Logan City staff issued a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) in June of 2024 seeking a
development group to partner with the City in providing affordable workforce housing on the City
owned property at 600 South & 100 West. Through this process, the City selected Visionary
Homes in August of 2024 to begin work on the project. The purpose of this partnership is to
construct 8 new residential units on approximately .70 acres marketed towards municipal
employees (police, fire, support), teachers, or any other profession that is considered essential
workers/workforce and will fall under 120% of AMI. The City is donating the land, and waiving
impact and building permit fees to help reduce the overall housing costs. The developer is
preparing the preliminary & final plat, construction drawings, constructing 8 new attached, owner
occupied residential units on two properties totaling approximately .70 acres, installing all utility




                                                                                                  458
improvements, and will be marketing and managing the sale of the new homes. A six year deed
restriction will be recorded with each unit requiring owner occupancy. All new purchasers will be
income qualified and have to fall under 120% of AMI. This program is specifically being
marketed to essential workers, and while it is not a traditional mortgage assistance program, the
price point of these units is well below the average market rates of similar housing in Cache
County thereby offering a lower entry point into the housing market along with a reduced
mortgage. Visionary is also working with a lender to be the project's & buyers preferred lender
to help streamline the borrowing process and reduce overall costs.

V
Logan City was awarded a Utah Permanent Community Impact Fund Board Grant for the
General Plan Update. The grant was awarded for the time period of 11/20/2023 – 11/1/2025
and was amended 9/30/2024 to extend the grant end date to 11/1/2026. Logan City signed a
Professional Services contract with Houseal Lavigne Associates on October 8, 2024 to prepare
the new Logan City General Plan. The consultants held project initiation workshops with city
staff, city elected and appointed officials, the project steering committee and the general public
January 15 – 16, 2025. Extensive public engagement and outreach through an online presence,
online survey, online map social, and community workshops are currently underway. Visioning
workshops with the Logan 2045 General Plan Steering Committee and Community members
were conducted on April 10, 2025.The Existing Conditions Analysis was submitted to Logan
May 15, 2025 by Houseal Lavigne. Vision and Goals Workshop scheduled with the Logan
2045 General Plan Steering Committee June 25, 2025.A revised Vision, Goals, Key
Recommendations, and Future Land Use document has just been uploaded onto the Logan
2045 General Plan project website.

F
Logan City was awarded a Utah Permanent Community Impact Fund Board Grant for the
General Plan Update. The grant was awarded for the time period of 11/20/2023 – 11/1/2025
and was amended 9/30/2024 to extend the grant end date to 11/1/2026. Logan City signed a
Professional Services contract with Houseal Lavigne Associates on October 8, 2024 to prepare
a new Logan City General Plan. Project initiation workshops were held with city staff, city
elected and appointed officials, the project steering committee and the general public January
15 – 16, 2025. Extensive public engagement and outreach through an online presence, online
survey, online map social, and community workshops are currently underway. Visioning
workshops with the Logan 2045 General Plan Steering Committee and Community members
were conducted on April 10, 2025.The Existing Conditions Analysis was submitted to Logan
May 15, 2025 by Houseal Lavigne and is available on the Logan 2045 General Plan project
website. Vision and Goals Workshop scheduled with the Logan 2045 General Plan Steering
Committee June 25, 2025. A revised Vision, Goals, Key Recommendations, and Future Land
Use Map are now available on the project website.We are anticipating the new General Plan will
be adopted in early 2026 and we will be following that with an updated Land Development Code
sometime in later 2026.The City is evaluating the current land use surrounding the existing
transit station. Land to the north is zoned for detached single family residential development.
Immediately north is an older LDS chapel and large open areas that would be a prime area for




                                                                                               459
additional residential density and possible a Mixed Use project. Similarly, the eastern half of the
block to the NW is also a transitional area and is planned for commercial/mixed use but is
currently zoned single family residential. This area is also prime for some level of additional
development and residential density.




4.      Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
E
Logan City adopted Ordinance 24-18 on October 1, 2024 expanding ADU’s citywide.
Specifically, the LDC code changes eliminated the existing ADA exclusionary zone around Utah
State University, expanded ADU’s to all zones (not just residential zones), and expanded types
of ADU’s from initially only permitting internal ADU’s to allowing for all types of ADU’s
citywide.These rule changes permit the broader use of ADU’s citywide. Three building permits
have been issued during 8.1.24 - 7.31.25 for new ADU's.

O
The City and BRAG have partnered to develop this 1.0 acre site with housing serving low
income and disabled senior residents (Section 8 Housing). Logan City’s contribution to the
project will be property donation, waiving most impact and building permit fees, and facilitating a
rezone request to a zone which permits a higher residential density. BRAG, through its
development team, will undertake project design, construction and overall project management.
BRAG’s target is 40 dwelling units per acre serving low income senior and disabled residents.
BRAG is in discussions with neighboring property owners about acquiring additional property in
order to expand the project scope/scale. BRAG is in the process of applying to the Utah
Housing Corporation for State and Federal funds and Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC)
for this project. Logan City Mayor Holly Daines has sent a support letter to the Utah Housing
Corporation dated May 22, 2025.

N
The Townhomes at River Crossing - 8 unit Townhome project scheduled to start construction in
August of 2025. The Purchase & Sales/Development Agreements are final legal review and
scheduled to be recorded with final subdivision plat by 8.1.25.Right of Way Vacation approved
by the Logan City Council (Ordinance 24-25) on 12.03.24. Subdivision and Design Review
permits issued on 1.9.25 (PC 25-002).The Townhomes at River Crossing Groundbreaking
5.29.25.Final subdivision plat signed June 6, 2025 with final recordation by 8.1.25.Building
permits issued and construction starting August, 2025.Contractor is currently working on utility
extension to the properties.




                                                                                                 460
V
Logan's 2045 General Plan is scheduled for adoption in early 2026 and will provide a policy
framework for updating the City’s Land Development Code to potentially include some multi-
family development in, or near, existing single family residential neighborhoods. This is an
important issue that has been identified early in the process but need policy language
supporting limited multi-family uses in predominantly single family neighborhoods. .

F
The new Logan 2045 General Plan will be adopted early 2026 and will provide a policy
framework for updating the City’s Land Development Code to potentially include additional
residential density near transit, commercial or employment centers. These are important issues
that have been identified early in the process but need policy language supporting a policy
change. Specific land use regulation changes will follow later in 2026.




5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
E
Negative perceptions about the impacts of student housing and that ADU’s would contribute to
more student housing in residential neighborhoods.

O
The project will require some type of City zoning action to permit the necessary densities to help
make the project financially viable. BRAG is in the process of securing additional project funding
and is in the process of applying for LIHTC and State/Federal funding.

N
Minor neighborhood opposition to the road vacations, subdivision and design review permits
because they were unsure as to the impact on their private road adjacent to this site. Also some
opposition to townhomes in their neighborhood. The amount of time it takes to get an
agreement prepared, reviewed and agreed to takes a great deal of time.

V
Most people are supportive of the general concept. I would assume more public opposition once
we start craft specific regulatory language allowing for limited or scaled multi family in sfr
neighborhoods.




                                                                                               461
F
A significant barrier or issue that comes up with these issues is the fact that Logan is home to
Utah State University and permanent residents are sensitive to the over saturation of residential
neighborhoods with additional multi-family housing regardless of the scale. They are concerned
about additional impacts from additional student housing in their neighborhoods.




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
E
Since the inception of the internal ADU program in 2021, Logan has permitted five (5) internal
ADU’s. Since the rule changes in October, 2024 expanding ADU’s, Logan has permitted an
additional three (3) ADU’s. Link to Ord. 24-18 is below.

O
No response yet.

N
Nothing yet.We are hoping to replicate this process on other properties in the City.

V
None yet.

F
None yet.




                                                                                                  462
7.       Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
E
https://www.loganutah.gov/government/mayor_s_office/city_recorder/ordinances.php#outer-
11736

O

N

V

F
www.loganutah.gov & https://logan-ut-general-plan-hlplanning.hub.arcgis.com/




      Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
E

O

N

V

F




                                                                                          463
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Planning technical assistance,Model
ordinances.,Case studies for strategies,Staff resources,Reporting technical
assistance,Guidebooks for planning and reporting,Education on partnering with nonprofit
organizations or housing authorities


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
n/a


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   464
