                                 CITY OF HOLLADAY
                                  PUBLIC NOTICE OF
                                ORDINANCE ADOPTION

Notice is hereby given that on the 4th day of December 2025, the Holladay City Council adopted
Ordinance 2025-22.

Ordinance 2025-22 adopts amendments to the City Code relating to the establishment of an
Overlay zone and other Provisions for the Willand Urban Interface. It adopts Chapter 70 of Title
13 relating to Wildland Urban Interface Zone, amends Title 15.08.01B(3) and Title 13.030 B(7).

The complete ordinance is available for public inspection during normal working hours from
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday in the office of the City Recorder located at 4580
S 2300 E, Holladay, UT or on the city’s website at
https://www.holladayut.gov/departments/city_recorder/adopted_ordinances.php




 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
 I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above notice and
 Ordinance or summary was posted at City Hall, the City website www.holladayut.gov, and the Utah
 Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn.

 DATE POSTED: Monday, December 8, 2025




________________________________
City Recorder
CHAPTER 13.70
WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE
SECTION:
13.70.010: Purpose Of Provisions
13.70.020: Applicability
13.70.030: Wildland Urban Interface Overlay Map
13.70.040: Wildland Urban Interface Development Requirements
13.70.050: Review, Approval Procedure
13.70.060: Disputes, Appeal Procedure
13.70.070: Warning and Disclaimer
13.70.080: Change of Use
13.70.090: Conflicting Regulations
13.70.100: Appendix A: Wildland Urban Overlay Map


13.70.010: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
   A. The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the
   citizens of Holladay and minimize the potential fire damage and related risks to public health,
   safety and property by encouraging wise land use in proximity to wildland fire risk areas.

   B. Based on, inter alia, recommendations of Unified Fire Authority, the city’s fire enforcement
   authority, the city finds that certain wildland interface areas exist in the city and that
   preservation of public health, safety and welfare requires adherence to development codes in
   such areas specified below, to reduce the risk of potentially devastating wildfires in the city.

   C. Appendix A of this chapter presents a wildland urban interface map reflecting fire risk
   concerns as highlighted by the State of Utah Division of Fire Forestry and Lands, as they
   specifically pertain to development within Holladay City. The map serves as an overlay,
   creating the boundaries wherein site-specific fire prevention assessments shall be performed
   prior to developing project plans located within the wildland urban interface boundary area.


13.70.020: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations are applicable to all property and lands within the wildland urban interface
overlay areas within the city, as shown on the Wildland Urban Interface map in this Appendix A.
The map and all amendments thereto are made a part of this chapter as if fully described and
detailed herein. Each change in the overlay map shall be subject to the amendment procedures set
forth in Chapter 13.07 of this title.

13.70.030: WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE OVERLAY MAP:
     A. The boundary lines of the wildland urban interface map establish overlay boundaries and
    shall be determined by use of the bounding streets, municipal boundaries appearing on the
    map.


                                                 1
     B. Wildland urban interface area map establishes building code and landscaping
    requirements as provided in 13.70.070 of this section. All land use provisions of the
    underlying zone apply.

     C. Wildland urban interface area map may be updated and amended by the city as per
    Chapter 13.07 if found to be inaccurate or in error, or as new methods or data are developed
    to better define areas of potential hazards.

     D. Where wildland urban interface overlay areas are thought by an applicant to be
    inaccurate or in error and require revision, the applicant shall submit to the city technical
    evidence by a qualified professional supporting the claim and showing the proposed revision.
    The city will review the information and render a decision. The applicant may appeal that
    decision to the city council.

13.70.040: WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Any applicant requesting development on a parcel of land within the wildland urban interface
overlay area, as shown on Appendix A of this chapter, shall comply with all provisions set forth in
the Utah Wildland Interface Code (2006) as adopted in §15.08.010 of this title.


13.70.050: REVIEW, APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
    A. Review: In order to fulfill the purposes of this chapter, the community and economic
    development department and Unified Fire Authority shall review any proposed development
    to determine the possible risks to the safety of persons or property from wildland fire
    hazards.

   B. Standards: The area fire marshal and building code official shall interpret and determine
    whether the development complies with the standards of the Utah Wildland Interface Code.

   C. Necessary Requirements May Be Set: The area fire marshal and building code official may
    set requirements necessary to reduce the risks from wildfire-related hazards as a condition to
    the approval of any development.



13.70.060: DISPUTES, APPEAL PROCEDURE:
An applicant may appeal any decision made under the provisions of this chapter only after the city
has issued a written review of a report and shall set forth the specific grounds or issues upon
which the appeal is based. The appeal shall be submitted in writing to the director of community
and economic development within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the written review or other
decision. The city shall assemble a professional panel of three (3) qualified experts to serve as the
appeal authority for any technical dispute. The panel shall consist of an expert designated by the
city, an expert designated by the applicant, and an expert chosen by the city's and the applicant's
designated experts. If the city's and the applicant's designated experts cannot reach a consensus of
the third expert within thirty (30) days, the city shall select the third expert. Decisions of the panel


                                                   2
will be binding and will be based on the majority decision of the panel. The costs of the appeal
process shall be paid by the applicant.

13.70.070: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER:
The wildland fire hazards overlay boundaries established in this chapter represent only those
hazardous areas known to the city and should not be construed to include all possible potential
hazard areas. The wildland urban interface maps may be amended as new information becomes
available pursuant to procedures set forth in chapter 13.07 of this title. The provisions of this
chapter do not in any way assure or imply that areas outside its boundaries will be free from the
possible adverse effects of wildland fire hazards. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city, any officer or employee thereof for any damages from wildland fires that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative requirement or decision lawfully made thereunder.


13.70.080: CHANGE OF USE:
No change in use which results in the conversion of a building or structure from one not used for
human occupancy to one that is so used shall be permitted unless the building or structure
complies with the provisions of this chapter.


13.70.090: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
In cases of conflict between the provisions of existing zoning classifications, building code,
subdivision regulations, or any other ordinance of the city and the wildland urban interface
overlay and codes codified in this chapter, the most restrictive provision shall apply.




                                                  3
13.70.100: APPENDIX A: WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE OVERLAY MAP:




                                       4
5
TITLE 15
BUILDING CODES
CHAPTER 15.08
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
15.08.010: Technical Codes Adopted
15.08.020: Fees In General
15.08.030: Fees For Subpermits
15.08.040: Utility Connections
15.08.050: Transition


15.08.010: TECHNICAL CODES ADOPTED:
  A. As provided in title 15a of the Utah code, the building code, national electrical code,
residential one- and two-family dwelling code, plumbing code, mechanical code, fuel gas
code, energy conservation code, and manufactured housing installation standard code as
adopted by the uniform building code commission (collectively, the "state building code")
shall be applied to building construction, alteration, remodeling and repair, and in the
regulation of building construction, alteration, remodeling and repair in the city. When a
new or revised edition of any component part of the state building code is adopted by the
uniform building code commission this section shall be interpreted to refer to such edition
thereof.
 B. The city of Holladay hereby also adopts the following codes:
   1. The 1997 edition of the uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings
(UCADB), as approved by the uniform building code commission, and
   2. The 2003 edition of the international property maintenance code, and
   3. The 2006 edition of the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code.


15.08.020: FEES IN GENERAL:




                                             1
                                                                                        WUI Ordinance
                                                                          Draft Site Plan Requirements




13.03.030: SPECIFIC SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
  In addition to the requirements of section 13.03.020 of this chapter, the submission
requirements of a proposed land use, development or other matter which is subject to
review as per chapter 13.08 of this title shall be as follows:
 A. Subdivisions: Submission requirements for subdivisions shall be as required by
section 13.10A.050 of this title.
 B. Site Development/Redevelopment Plans:
    1. Preliminary (Technical) Review: The following items shall be submitted to the
Community and Economic Development Department for review by the TRC prior to
approval by the designated Land Use Authority as per chapter 13.101 Appendix B of this
title. Items may be waived by the Community Development Director as not applicable:
     a. Electronic submittal of a complete application made available with the community
and economic development department, a proposed site plan composed of a scaled
drawing of and information pertaining to the proposed development site. A site plan shall
include the following:
    (1) North arrow and scale band at no less than 1 to 40 feet.
    (2) In a Title Block located in the right margin;
      (A) Address and Name of development.
      (B) Name, phone number and business address of applicant/developer and project
designer.
      (C) Name, phone number and business address of property owner.
      (D) Date of preparation.
     (3) Utility service connection letters from each utility company serving the project
stating the company has reviewed the plan, its comments concerning the extent of service
availability, and acceptance of the proposed location of all utility easements. A copy of the
approved plan, initialed and stamped by the utility company shall be submitted with the
letter.
    (4) A vicinity map containing sufficient information to accurately locate the property
shown on the plan.
    (5) Lot coverage tabulation table in the following format:


                                        Square Feet % Of Total
                                                                                         WUI Ordinance
                                                                           Draft Site Plan Requirements



 Total parcel area                      -             -
 Total building area                    -             -
 Total impervious area                  -             -
 Total landscaped area                  -             -
 Total existing tree canopy coverage    -             -


     (6) For residential uses, show the number of dwelling units and the overall units per
acre.
    (7) For nonresidential uses, show the proposed distribution of uses in square feet
within each separate structure.
    (8) Proposed building elevations and the projected overall height from existing grade.
    (9) Names and locations of fronting streets, public or private.
    (10) Footprints of proposed and existing buildings.
    (11) Building setback lines as required by the current zone standards.
    (12) Existing and proposed drive accesses.
    (13) Parking locations and number of spaces.
    (14) Existing grade contours.
    (15) Current zoning.
    (16) FEMA Flood Area Designation as per chapter 13.74.
    (17) Natural Hazard Area, Geologic Fault line/Study Areas as per chapter 13.75.
     (18) Wildland Urban Interface areas as per chapter 13.70.
 C. Final (Civil) Review: For review of a final site development application, the applicant
shall submit to the Community and Economic Development Director the following:
   1. A completed application on a form made available with the Community and
Economic Development Department and copy of the approved preliminary site plan.
   2. Where required, a narrative describing how all modifications or additions as
required by the Planning Commission have been address.
    3. Electronic submittal of a site plan drawn to scale (no less than 1 inch equals 40 feet)
by a certified engineer, architect, landscape architect or land surveyor containing the
following information:
    a. In a title block located in the lower right hand corner the following shall appear:
                                                                                         WUI Ordinance
                                                                           Draft Site Plan Requirements


   (1) The proposed name of the project, which name shall be approved by the
Community Development Department;
    (2) The location of the project, including: address, and parcel number.
    (3) The names and contact info of the owner, and of the designer of the site plan;
    (4) The date of preparation, scale (no less than 1 inch to equal 40 feet) and the north
arrow.
    (5) Current Land Use Zone
    b. The Final site plan shall show the following existing conditions:
     (1) The boundary lines of the proposed project indicated by a solid heavy line and the
total approximate acreage encompassed thereby;
     (2) All abutting property under the control of the applicant, even though only a
portion is included in the development;
     (3) The location, width and names of all existing public or private streets, and
driveway entrances within two hundred feet (200') of the project boundaries and of all
prior platted streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, permanent easements and
section and corporation lines, within and abutting the project;
    (4) The location of all wells, proposed, active and abandoned, and of all reservoirs
within the project and to a distance of at least two hundred feet (200') beyond the project
boundaries;
     (5) Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities within the
project and to a distance of at least two hundred feet (200') beyond the project boundaries,
indicating pipe sizes, grades, manholes and exact location;
    (6) Existing ditches, canals, natural drainage channels, and open waterways and
proposed realignments;
    (7) Existing grade Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet (2'). The
100-year flood level of all watercourses, if any, shall be indicated in the same datum for
contour elevations;
    (8) All installed fire hydrants on or within five hundred feet (500') of the proposed
subdivision;
    (9) Current zoning designation, on and off site; and
    (10) Location of all trees.
    c. The final site plan shall show all proposed:
     (1) Areas intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or set aside
for use of property owners in the project;
                                                                                       WUI Ordinance
                                                                         Draft Site Plan Requirements


    (2) Building setback lines, including dimensions;
    (3) Easements for water, sewers, drainage, utility lines and any other easements
required by the Planning Commission’s conceptual approval;
    (4) Lot Coverage tabulations showing:


                                                                Square Feet % Of Total

 Off street parking
 Buildings and/or buildable area
 Total floor space by use
 Landscaped areas
 Impervious surfaces
 Total area of existing tree canopy coverage to be mitigated


     (5) Dimensioned parking layout showing location and number of individual parking
stalls, driveways and other areas of ingress and egress;
    (6) Location of consolidated open space;
    (7) Location and type of solid waste disposal facilities.
   4. A detailed landscaping plan. Such landscaping plans shall be prepared by a qualified
professional, and shall include:
     a. Distribution of new plant material and trees described by name or type, and plans
for slope control and/or other physical environmental changes;
    b. Special effects and decorative materials;
    c. Irrigation systems (sprinkler, bubbler, etc.);
    d. Recreation equipment;
      e. An analysis of the impact of the development upon existing vegetation, especially as
it relates to the removal of any significant trees;
     f. Location and description (height, materials) of existing and proposed fences with
any revised letters of agreement with abutting property owners; and
     g. Location and description (dimensions, distance to property lines and type of
lighting [direct or indirect]) of existing and proposed freestanding signs.
   5. A tree removal permit application as required by chapter 13.77 of this title.
                                                                                       WUI Ordinance
                                                                         Draft Site Plan Requirements


   6. Drawings of proposed structure elevations, including covered parking, showing the
height, dimensions, appearance, materials proposed, and percentage of each material used
on each building elevation, along with the location and description of any proposed wall
signs.
    7. A detailed lighting plan prepared by a professional and emphasizing energy
conservation and compatibility with abutting and adjacent uses and using the minimum
light necessary to achieve visibility and security.
   8. A copy of proposed CC&Rs, if applicable.
   9. Statement of the estimated starting and completion dates for each phase of
development, including proposed grading work and any landscape work.
   10. Electronic submittal of the proposed civil construction drawings, sheet not to
exceed twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), with sufficient detail for
construction of all improvements, stamped by the project engineer including:
    a. Horizontal control.
    b. Demolition.
    c. Grading and drainage.
    d. Erosion control.
    e. Utilities, on site and off site.
    f. Roadway design, public improvements; curb, gutter, sidewalks, driveway
approaches(s), Street Trees as determined by the Technical Review Committee.
    g. Civil details, general notes, etc.
    h. Appropriate supporting documents showing compliance with State and Federal
standards such as: air emissions, site pollution prevention measures and water discharge
standards.
   11. To mitigate possible adverse impacts from the proposed development, the
Technical Review Committee shall determine from a review of the preliminary site plan
whether the following additional information shall be submitted:
    a. Soil erosion, geological hazard and sedimentation studies and/or control plans and
specifications. Such studies, control plans, and specifications shall be prepared by a
qualified professional with the costs of preparation of such plans and specifications being
borne by the applicant.
    b. A traffic study prepared by a qualified traffic engineer or other qualified person as
determined by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 2024-01, 2-1-2024)
