CITY OF HOLLADAY
ORDINANCE NO. 2026-06
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY ADOPTING AND CODIFYING TITLE 3
CHAPTER 32 OF CITY CODE, COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM
WHEREAS, in 2019, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 411, codified at Utah
Code Ann. §§ 54-17-901 to -909 (“Act”), titled the “Community Renewable Energy Act’; and
WHEREAS, in 2024, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 241 and Senate Bill
214 which, collectively, renamed the Act the “Community Clean Energy Act” and amended
certain provisions of the Act; and
WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the Utah Public Service Commission (“Commission’’)
to establish a program (“Program”) whereby towns, municipalities, and counties may
cooperate with qualified utilities to provide electric energy for participating customers from
clean energy resources; and
WHEREAS, the Act provides that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if the town, municipality, or county (“Community”) in which the customer resides
satisfies certain requirements, including:
(a) the Community must enter into an agreement with a qualified utility (“Utility
Agreement”):
(i) stipulating to the payment to the qualified utility of the costs of:
(A) third-party expertise contracted for by the Division of Public
Utilities and the Office of Consumer Services, for assistance with activities
associated with initial approval of the Program; and
(B) providing notice to the Community’s customers as provided in the Act;
(11) determining the obligation for the payment of any termination charges
under the Act that are not paid by a participating customer and not included in
participating customer rates; and
(iii) identifying any initially proposed replaced asset;
(b)the Community must, within ninety (90) days after the date of the
Commission’s order approving the Program, adopt a local ordinance that:
(i) establishes participation in the Program; and
(ii) is consistent with the terms of the Utility Agreement; and
|

(c) the Community must comply with any other terms or conditions required by

the Commission; and

WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the Commission to adopt administrative rules to
implement the Act and the Commission has adopted such rules as set forth in Utah
Administrative Code R746-314-101 through -402 (“Rules”); and

WHEREAS, the Rules require that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if, in addition to the requirements of the Act, the Community in which the customer
resides also adopts an agreement (“Governance Agreement”) with other eligible Communities
to establish a cooperative decision-making process for Program design, resource solicitation,
resource acquisition, and other Program issues and provides a means of ensuring that eligible
Communities and those that become participating Communities will be able to reach a single
joint decision on any necessary Program issues; and

WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Rules, the City of Holladay entered
into an agreement with other eligible Communities entitled the Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement Among Public Entities Regarding the Community Renewable Energy Program
(“Governance Agreement”), thereby becoming a member of the Community Renewable
Energy Agency (“Agency”), which endeavors to make certain joint decisions about the
proposed Program on behalf of Communities as set forth in the Governance Agreement; and

WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, the City of Holladay executed
a Utility Agreement with Rocky Mountain Power, a qualified utility under the Act, on

, which addresses the issues required by the Act; and

WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on January 24, 2025, and June
4, 2025, Rocky Mountain Power filed an application with the Commission seeking approval
of the Program and the Commission opened Docket No. 25-035-06 to consider the application;
and

WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on March 4, 2026, the
Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06 (“Commission Order”) approving the
Program; and

WHEREAS, as contemplated in the Act, the City Council desires to adopt this ordinance
that satisfies the requirements of the Act; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to take actions which it has determined promotes
the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the City; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that adoption of this ordinance will help
address concerns related to poor air quality and other environmental concerns due in part to
the use of fossil fuels; and

2

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that energy sources utilized by and within the City
of Holladay therefore can impact public health, safety and welfare; and

WHEREAS, recent advances in energy technology have made certain clean energy
resources more economically viable than in the past and, in some cases, more cost-effective
than traditional energy sources; and

WHEREAS, proximity to outdoor recreation is a key economic contributor to the City
of Holladay and one which relies on preservation of the environment and protection of natural
resources; and

WHEREAS, the City of Holladay and its residents have shown an interest in
environmental stewardship through various initiatives and activities surrounding growth and
development; and

WHEREAS, the City Council believes that determining and undertaking further actions
designed to reduce fossil fuel dependence while appropriately balancing financial stewardship
and the burdens on residents and residential businesses, and promoting economic growth is an
important component of safeguarding public health, safety and welfare; and

WHEREAS, the City Council met in regular session on May 21, 2026 to, among other
things, consider adopting the Program on behalf of the City of Holladay’s electric customers;
and

Now, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Municipal Council of the City of Holladay,
Utah as follows:

Section 1. Adoption and Codification. Title 3 Chapter 32 of the City of Holladay
Municipal Code is hereby adopted and codified to read in its entirety as set forth in Exhibit A,
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

Section 2. Savings Clause. In the event one or more of the provisions of this
Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be unenforceable
or invalid in any respect under applicable laws, such unenforceability or invalidity shall not affect
any other provision; and in such an event, this Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall
be construed as if such unenforceable or invalid provision had never been contained herein.

Section 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or
posting or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 21*' day of May, 2026.
HOLLADAY CITY_COUNCIL
Dh
By: Vi LL. foe _
Paul Fotheringham, Mayop
3

tty,
[SEAL] Pa ceell™., VOTING:
Fy SORl ORG 2% David Sundwall Yea Nay X __
Fs fOgia ah Matt Durham Yea X Nay _
2 § i Poke 7 8 Natalie Bradley Yea X Nay___
2% ey 3s ? Drew Quinn Yea X Nay
% Se SEN r/ Fi Emily Gray Yea X Nay __
H, Bg presen oS Paul Fotheringham Yea X Nay __
Arrest: 7 OF Yo
ANGI mars A; Contom
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
City Recorder
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 21‘' day of May, 2026.
y
RECORDED this 21‘ day of May, 2026.
4

TITLE 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 3.32
COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM
SECTION:
3.32.010: Participation In Community Clean Energy Program
3.32.020: Customer Participation In Community Clean Energy Program.
3.32.030: Termination Fees
3.32.040: Acquisition Of Clean Energy Resources
3.32.050: Program Rates And Rate Adjustment Filings
3.32.060: Utility Billing For Participating Customers
3.32.070: City Participation In Program
3.32.010: PARTICIPATION IN COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM:

A. The City hereby establishes its participation in the Community Clean Energy
Program (“Program”) as approved by the Public Service Commission of Utah
(“Commission”).

B. On March 4, 2026, the Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06
(“Commission Order”) approving the Program. The Commission Order is on file with
the Commission. The Program’s rates, Rules, and requirements are governed by the
Commission Order, and may be modified from time to time by subsequent Rules and
orders adopted by the Commission. To the extent that the Commission Order or any
subsequent rule or order adopted by the Commission contradicts any portion of this
Title, the Commission order or rule or order adopted by the Commission shall
govern.

C. ELIGIBLE CUSTOMERS. Pursuant to Utah Code § 54-17-905(5), residential
customers participating in the net metering program under Utah Code Title 54,
Chapter 15, Net Metering of Electricity, Rocky Mountain Power Schedule 135, are
not eligible to participate in the Program. All other retail electric customers of Rocky
Mountain Power within the current and future boundaries of the City, including all
residential, commercial, and industrial customers, are eligible to participate in the
Program (“Eligible Customer”). Eligible Customers include rooftop solar customers
on Rocky Mountain Power Schedules 136 and 137, which are compensated through
an export credit rather than a net metering credit.

D. IMPLEMENTATION DATE. The Program shall be implemented on the date that RMP
sends out the first Notices identified in Section 3.32.020, below (“Program
Implementation Date”). Eligible Customers shall be enrolled in the Program if they
receive the Notices and decline to opt out of participation in the Program by the date
set forth in the Notices. Consistent with the Act and the Rules, the Notices shall be
sent to each Eligible Customer before the commencement date that applies to each
such customer (“Customer Commencement Date”), as set forth in the Rules.

3.32.020: CUSTOMER PARTICIPATION IN COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM:

A. Each Eligible Customer shall be automatically enrolled in the Program unless the
customer opts out of the Program prior to the Customer Commencement Date.

B. NOTICES. As set forth in the Act and the Rules before any Eligible Customer becomes
a participant in the Program, Rocky Mountain Power first shall deliver to each
Eligible Customer certain notices (collectively, the “Notices”) containing content and
in the form, manner, and delivery method as required by the Act and Rules and
other orders and Rules.

C. OPT-OUT. Each Eligible Customer may elect not to participate in the Program and
instead to pay applicable existing electric rates by giving notice to Rocky Mountain
Power in the manner and within the time period set forth in the Notices.

1. FIRST OPT-OUT NOTICE. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a First Opt-
Out Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible Customer
within the City, no earlier than sixty (60) days and no later than thirty (30)
days before the Customer Commencement Date applicable to each customer.
The First Opt-Out Notice shall, in all material respects, use the form and
content of the First Opt-Out Notice as approved by the Commission.

2. SECOND OPT-OUT NOTICE. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a Second
Opt-Out Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible
Customer within the City, at least fifteen (15) days after the First Opt-Out
Notice was provided and at least seven (7) days before the Customer
Commencement Date applicable to such customer. The Second Opt-Out
Notice shall, in all material respects, use the form and content of the Second
Opt-Out Notice as approved by the Commission.

3. Each Eligible Customer that receives the First Opt-Out Notice and the Second
Opt-Out Notice as described herein and declines to opt out of the Program by
the customer’s Customer Commencement Date will be enrolled in the
Program.

D. CUSTOMER OPTION TO OPT IN TO PROGRAM. An Eligible Customer located
within the City that is not enrolled in the Program may at any time elect to
participate in the Program by providing notice to Rocky Mountain Power in the form
and content approved by the Commission. Following such notice to opt in to the
Program, the customer will be enrolled in the Program starting with the billing
period following the notice in which it is reasonably practicable for Rocky Mountain
Power to enroll such customer. The reasonably practicable billing period shall be
based on when the notice was received from the customer and the customer’s
billing cycle. Following enrollment in the Program, the customer shall be subject to
all Program requirements.

E. CUSTOMER OPTION TO EXIT PROGRAM. Customers enrolled in the Program may

exit the Program by giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power.
3.32.030: TERMINATION FEES:

A. Ifa customer declines to opt out of the Program prior to the applicable Customer
Commencement Date, but subsequently exits the Program, the exiting customer may
be required to pay a termination fee, as set forth in this Section.

B. When applicable, the amount of the termination fee shall be based on the rate
schedule of the exiting customer as approved by the Commission and may be
modified from time to time by subsequent orders of the Commission.

C. CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH TERMINATION FEE SHALL NOT APPLY: A
Termination Fee shall not apply in the following circumstances:

1. Any customer that opts out of the Program within the “Cancellation Period”
applicable to that customer, as defined in the Rules.

2. Any customer that ceases to be an electric customer of Rocky Mountain
Power;

3. Any customer that moves to a new location that is not within the boundaries
of a community that participates in the Program;

4, Any customer that seeks protection through bankruptcy proceedings;

5. Any customer enrolled in Schedule 3 bill assistance (“Low-Income Lifeline
Program”).

3.32.040: ACQUISITION OF CLEAN ENERGY RESOURCES:

A. For purposes of this section, “clean energy resource” shall have the definition set
forth in the Act.

B. Rocky Mountain Power may adopt or procure one or more clean energy resources
to serve the needs and goals of the Program. The acquisition of any such clean
energy resource must follow solicitation application and evaluation criteria

approved by the Commission.

C. Any clean energy resource adopted or procured by Rocky Mountain Power to serve
the needs and goals of the Program must be approved by the Commission based on
a finding the same is reasonable and in the public interest.

D. The Commission shall determine the method of cost recovery for any clean energy
resource acquired to meet Program needs and goals, and the Commission’s
determination regarding cost recovery may affect Program rates.

3.32.050: PROGRAM RATES AND RATE ADJUSTMENT FILINGS:

A. Program rates will be determined by the Commission.

B. The initial Program rates were determined by the Commission in the Commission
Order.

C. Program rates may be adjusted by the Commission from time to time, consistent with
the procedures approved by the Commission for adjusting Program rates.

3.32.060: UTILITY BILLING FOR PARTICIPATING CUSTOMERS:

A. Rocky Mountain Power shall bill each Participating Customer on a monthly basis

and shall:
1. include information in its monthly bills to participating customers identifying
the Program cost; and
2. provide notice to participating customers of any change in rates for
participation in the Program.
3.32.070: CITY PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM:

A. Through its membership in the Community Renewable Energy Agency, City
participated in the design and approval of the Program and shall participate in
future decisions regarding clean energy resource solicitation, clean energy resource
acquisition, and certain other Program issues.

B. Consistent with Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(a), City entered into an agreement with
Rocky Mountain Power (“RMP”) regarding the facilitation of the Program (“Utility
Agreement”). Pursuant to the Utility Agreement, City:

1. shall pay for the costs of third-party expertise contracted for in connection
with the Program’s development and initial approval by the Commission;

2. shall pay its proportional costs associated with RMP providing the Notices to
the City’s customers as discussed in Section 3.32.020, above;

3. Termination charges not paid by a participating customer shall be included
in participating customer rates and shall not be paid by City;

4. There shall be no initially proposed “Replaced Asset” as that term is defined
by Utah Code § 54-17-902(15).

C. City has already approved the appropriation of funds and has already paid those
funds to the Agency for the Agency to make payments for the costs of third-party

expertise contracted for in connection with the Program’s development and initial
approval by the Commission pursuant to the Governance Agreement.

D. City has approved the appropriation of funds to pay its proportional costs
associated with RMP providing the Notices to the City’s customers as discussed in
Section 3.32.020, above.

E. City shall not be obligated to pay any costs of the Program other than those costs set
forth herein and any costs that the City may bear as a utility customer that
participates in the Program, if applicable.

CITY OF HOLLADAY
PUBLIC NOTICE OF
ORDINANCE ADOPTION
Notice is hereby given that on the 21‘ day of May, 2026, the Holladay City Council adopted
Ordinance 2026-06
Ordinance 2026-06 adopts and codifies Title 3.32 Community Clean Energy Program.
The complete ordinance is available for public inspection during normal working hours from
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday in the office of the City Recorder located at
Temporary Holladay City Hall - 3330 S 1300 E Millcreek UT.
Dated this 22" day of May, 2026
BY ORDER OF THE HOLLADAY CITY COUNCIL
Stephanie N. Carlson, MMC
Holladay City Recorder
CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I, Stephanie N. Carlson, the City Recorder of the City of Holladay, certify that the above notice and
Ordinance or summary was posted at City Hall, the City website www. holladayut.gov, and the Utah
Public Notice website www.utah.gov/pmn.
DATE POSTED: Friday, May 22, 2026
City Recorder
