PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
445 MARSAC AVENUE
PARK CITY, UTAH 84060

June 4, 2026

The Council of Park City, Summit County, Utah, met in open meeting on June 4, 2026,
at 1:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.

PARK CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING

ROLL CALL

     Attendee Name                                        Status
     Chair Ryan Dickey
     Board Member Bill Ciraco (arrived at 1:22 p.m.)
     Board Member Molly Miller
     Board Member Ed Parigian
     Board Member Tana Toly                               Present
     Board Member Diego Zegarra
     Adam Lenhard, Executive Director
     Margaret Plane, City Attorney
     Michelle Kellogg, Secretary
     None                                                 Excused

PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON THE
AGENDA)

Chair Dickey opened the meeting for any who wished to speak or submit comments on
items not on the agenda. No comments were given. Chair Dickey closed the public input
portion of the meeting.

CONSENT AGENDA

1. Request to Approve a Deed and Temporary Construction Easement across a
Portion of RDA Parcel No. SCCS-9-9b-1-X (Police Department Property):

Board Member Toly moved to approve the Consent Agenda. Board Member Parigian
seconded the motion.
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
Page|2


RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Board Members Miller, Parigian, Toly, and Zegarra
EXCUSED: Board Member Ciraco

ADJOURNMENT

CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION

Water Impact Fee Update:
Clint McAffee, Public Utilities Director, displayed a scale of impact fee escalation
scenarios and indicated a 3.9% increase each year since 2014 would result in the
proposed maximum fee as of 2026. He stated operational expenses increased 19% per
year and the 3Kings Water Treatment Plant was a large driver for that increase. He
noted waterline replacement costs had increased 26%-59% each year since 2020.
Mayor Dickey summarized that if the City had kept up with inflation, the amount would
be the same as the proposed maximum fee of $26,449. The impact fees would help
cover the cost of the 3KWTP operations, so if the impact fees were not received, the
rate payers would have to make up the difference.

Council Member Toly asked if McAffee needed to get the 3.9% annual increase, to
which McAffee stated any lower rate would result in higher water rates for all users to
keep the systems operating and maintained. Adam Lenhard, City Manager, stated the
dollar amount was what needed to be approved. Council Member Toly added that the
amount would increase by a certain percentage each year. Lenhard indicated the
impact fee maximum was based on the current water projects. McAffee explained the
process for arriving at the maximum fee based on estimated growth of the City. The
Council was comfortable implementing the maximum water impact fee.

Council Member Ciraco arrived at 1:22 p.m.

FY 2027 and 2028 Water Rate Update:
McAffee recommended pausing the rate increases this year and performing a water rate
study to determine the appropriate rates to charge beginning in FY2028. He displayed a
graph showing the increased costs in expenses for water pipes, meter vaults, debt
payment, water delivery contracts, labor, materials, interfund transfers and contract
services. He reviewed the rate increases for the past few years.

Council Member Ciraco asked if any of the waterline replacement work could be
brought in-house. McAffee stated one of the challenges with in-house would be the cost
of equipment and labor, and the work could only be performed six months of the year,
so the other six months the equipment and labor would sit. Council Member Ciraco
stated the water rates could not increase 19% per year because that was not
sustainable. He asked for metrics on how much water the City used compared to the
rest of the state. He felt that would indicate how responsible the City was compared to

Park City                                Page 2                              June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
Page|3

the state. He thought there needed to be another way to balance the revenues with the
expenses. Council Member Ciraco also wanted to understand charging all single-family
residences the same base rate. McAffee indicated conservation was a balance, but he
didn’t want people to abuse water use.

Council Member Toly asked for a discussion on water conservation and then have those
values dictate what would be done next year. She asked how many water pipes still
needed to be replaced. McAffee stated they needed to replace two miles of pipe per
year. Council Member Toly asked to see what AI was doing with water as the water rate
study was done. Council Member Parigian asked when the debt would be paid for
3KWTP to which McAffee stated in 2042, and debt issues could be discussed during the
rate study discussions. The Council agreed to not increase water rates this year and to
instead implement a water rate study.

Planning Commission Interviews:
Mayor Dickey and the Council members interviewed the following applicants for the
open seats on the Planning Commission: Henry Sigg, Nicolas Marin, Matthew Day,
John Frontero, Danny Glasser, Casey Christ, and Beth Kidd.

FY27 Budget Discussion:
Penny Frates, Hans Jasperson, Jessica Morgan, and Sarah Mangano presented this
item. Mangano reviewed that staff recommended a 2% COLA and a 3% merit increase
for a total employee compensation increase of 5%. Council Member Ciraco asked how
experience differed from placement in the pay band. Mangano indicated most
employees with at least four years’ experience were put in the middle of their pay band.
Council Member Toly asked how the COLA percentage was decided. Mangano stated
the Mountain West CPI was averaged at 2.8%. She recommended lowering the COLA
that would be distributed in order to focus on merit increases.

Council Member Parigian stated COLA was not equitable since food and utilities went
up the same amount regardless of pay. He asked if Council was interested in looking at
different ways to apply the COLA in future years. The Council agreed to have that
discussion. They supported the staff recommendation for the COLA and merit.

Council Member Ciraco clarified that merit was based on performance reviews. Council
Member Toly asked for this discussion to come back in a few months. Mangano stated
shifting COLA would be a drastic change for the employees so she would want to
communicate any change beginning in January.

Mayor Dickey asked if there was Council support to discuss the Council compensation
again and track the Council’s pay compared to the employees’ pay since 2015. Council
Member Miller supported another discussion but stressed her priority was to ensure that
a broader range of residents could serve on the Council. Council Member Parigian felt
the last meeting’s discussion was botched and he wanted another discussion on


Park City                                Page 3                             June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
Page|4

Council compensation. Council Member Ciraco asked that staff do the work without an
expectation from the Council.

Council Member Toly felt this conversation came down to the value of the local
leadership the value of who could serve. Other cities had different budgets and different
workloads. She felt the County Council was the closest comparable. She hoped to
approach compensation in a respectful manner. Council Member Zegarra was open to
revisiting the discussion. Margaret Plane, City Attorney, asked if the Council
compensation item should be a standalone item or included with the budget item on
next week’s agenda. Mayor Dickey didn’t have a preference. Plane stated they would
add a compensation item to Old Business with public input, and then it could be
adopted with the budget on June 25th.

Mangano reviewed that the City covered the Public Safety employee contribution
portion to their retirement fund if they were on the Tier II pension track. She noted this
contribution would increase from 4.73% to 5.98%.

Council Member Miller stated her goal was to operationalize the Arts Master Plan and
she had worked with Park City Summit County Arts Council to create an arts manager
position. Frates stated the budget request was for $65,000 for a full-time position and
the County would match that amount. Jasperson noted the City already funded a Public
Art Advisory Board (PAAB) facilitator and a CREATE PC affordable maker space
program. He gave options for funding the position and stated if there were no offsets, it
could be funded with reserve money.

Council Member Toly felt this request was similar to funds given to some other
nonprofits. Council Member Miller stated the arts was an essential part of strengthening
the economy and this was a good start. Council Member Parigian wanted to know how
progress would be determined. Council Member Ciraco struggled with funding this out
of the General Fund. He asked if there were other funds that could fund this position.
Council Member Toly asserted the contract would be key to the position so there would
be accountability. Council Member Zegarra supported the position and stated the City
and County should collaborate to ensure this would meet everyone’s needs. Council
Member Toly noted that there should be a backup plan in case the County did not fund
this in their budget, such as hiring a part-time person. Council Member Parigian
supported having this position in the grant program. Frates indicated that the Arts
Council would have to apply every year to keep this position if it was funded through the
grant program. The Council supported putting this position in the budget and requested
that the job description be included in next week’s Council packet.

Frates reviewed a budget request to increase the Historic Preservation Board grant in
the Main Street RDA. They received notice that all the funds in that RDA needed to be
spent by the end of 2026. They proposed removing $30,000 from the FY27 Main Street
RDA budget, leaving a balance of $97,136 for FY27. The Council supported the
request.

Park City                                  Page 4                               June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
Page|5

Morgan stated there was a FY26 capital request for $500,000 for barricades and trailers
for upcoming summer events. This would be funded by the Main Street RDA. Mayor
Dickey asked if the bollard installation project had been completed. Frates indicated this
was different than the bollard project on Main Street. Captain Rob McKinney explained
the need for mobile barricades and trailers. Mayor Dickey asked if there would be a
bollard project that would look cleaner than the barricades. McKinney felt the barricades
would better serve the need. The Council supported this request.

Council Member Parigian asked about the softball field dugout budget request. Frates
indicated the request hinged on a grant and now the grant was approved, so they would
move forward with it. Council Member Parigian was not sure the dugout was needed.
Jasperson indicated he could check with the Recreation Team and they could talk about
it at the next meeting.

Council Member Toly moved to close the meeting to discuss personnel at 4:45 p.m.
Council Member Ciraco seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Ciraco, Miller, Parigian, Toly, and Zegarra

CLOSED SESSION

Council Member Miller moved to adjourn from Closed Meeting at 5:30 p.m. Council
Member Ciraco seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Ciraco, Miller, Parigian, Toly, and Zegarra

REGULAR MEETING

I.     ROLL CALL

      Attendee Name                                           Status
      Mayor Ryan Dickey
      Council Member Bill Ciraco
      Council Member Molly Miller
      Council Member Ed Parigian
      Council Member Tana Toly                                Present
      Council Member Diego Zegarra
      Adam Lenhard, City Manager
      Margaret Plane, City Attorney
      Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder
      None                                                    Excused


 Park City                                Page 5                              June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
Page|6

II.    COMMUNICATIONS AND DISCLOSURES FROM COUNCIL AND STAFF

Council Questions and Comments:
Council Member Toly recognized the beginning of Pride Month. She noted that Saturday
was the opening of the new pool at the MARC. She congratulated all those graduating
from school this year. Council Member Toly reviewed that the Council retreat this year
was the best she remembered and indicated they discussed goals for the City that
would make the community even better.

Council Member Ciraco echoed Council Member Toly’s wish for a happy Pride Month.
He congratulated the seniors on their high school graduation. He went on CityTour last
week and he had a lot of takeaways from Vail and Breckenridge, Colorado. He
congratulated the Boys Lacrosse Team for winning the state championship.

Council Member Miller stated they had a great CityTour and she thanked Scott Van
Hartesvelt and Paige Galvin for all their work. She read a statement regarding public
discourse around the Bonanza 5-Acre project. She didn’t think anything was worth the
mistreatment by one person to another person. The Council was listening to public input
but that didn’t mean they had to do what one group wanted. She saw many rude
comments made to staff at the Spring Projects Open House. Nobody had a right to put
hands on others out of anger. The residents were better than this and must act like it.
Council Member Parigian stated the Bonanza project had been talked about for years. It
had now been voted on and moved to the Planning Commission. From all the public
surveys, only eight people out of 872 wanted open space. He encouraged people to
learn the facts on this project. Mayor Dickey stated everyone was welcome to their
opinion, but they couldn’t abuse the City staff. He encouraged the public to talk to the
Council because staff was only doing what the Council directed.

Ken Fisher, Recreation Manager, stated the pools were ready for the summer season
and would open June 6th. He thanked the Council and staff for their trust and support.

Staff Communications Reports:

1. March 2026 Sales Tax Report:
Penny Frates, Acting Budget Director, stated the revenue was flat until March, which
was historically the biggest sales tax month. March sales tax was down 20%. Robbie
Smoot indicated January sales tax exceeded the prior year. But in March, many
employees were laid off and that was reflected in the lower sales tax revenue. He
estimated summer might become an economic factor. Council Member Ciraco asked if
Smoot knew where the tax revenue came from. Smoot stated Main Street was a big
factor. The resort tax revenue suffered compared to Main Street.

III. PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON
THE AGENDA)


 Park City                               Page 6                             June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
Page|7

Mayor Dickey reviewed the Council gave direction during the work session to reconsider
Council compensation next week. On water rates, the Council gave direction to not
raise water rates for the coming year. He opened the meeting for any who wished to
speak or submit comments on items not on the agenda.

Ken Erwin Pack 84060 congratulated the Council on their great pay raises. He asked if
the Bonanza project was a done deal. Mayor Dickey explained there were two paths for
the project. The Council approved the plan and the land use application was now
presented to the Planning Commission. In the meantime, the Council would be working
on a development agreement for the public/private partnership with Brinshore.

Bill Johnson was disheartened to hear that Council sent the opposition to the Planning
Commission. He stated Council could pull the project back for design reasons, but he
could see that the Council did not intend to do that.

Dana Williams loved a lot of people in the City. He thanked the Council for the
comments regarding staff. He stated there was a big outcry about the design and the
Planning Commission was only there to see if the project fit the LMC requirements. He
was concerned about putting commercial space in that area and he thought the design
could be relooked at to preserve the view corridor. He apologized for the treatment
given to Council Member Miller.

Katherine Fagin 84060 was disheartened about what she learned at the open house
about the bus stop project. She spoke before about the importance of Holiday Ranch
and Little Kate, which have 30 total bus stops. Now, all of Holiday Ranch was omitted
for the construction plans for 2026. She knew the number of transit users on Holiday
Ranch was increasing and now this part of the project would not be done until Little
Kate was done. She wanted to bring this to Council’s attention.

Julia Collins, Transportation Planning Manager, indicated they understood construction
timelines would impact users. Holiday Ranch Loop and the whole area in Park
Meadows were part of the improvement plan. It made sense to cluster construction, and
since they were still studying the Little Kate portion of the project, they bumped the
construction on Holiday Ranch until next year.

Katie Madsen eComment: “I want to give you my support for your compensation
increases as I know you're getting a lot of pushback from some community members.
As someone who has worked in public administration in local government and
nonprofits my whole career I know how hard Council Members work in the Summit
County/Park City community. I think it is reasonable to bring your compensation up
similar to the Summit County Council's. And I realize it's not just for yourselves but also
for future council members. I think it will help enable middle class workforce individuals
who want to run for office but struggle to do so for financial reasons.”



Park City                                  Page 7                              June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
Page|8

Kelly Pfaff eComment: “I was flying home from a business trip when I read an article
about Molly Miller have an aggressive interaction with someone at that event. That
made me so sad to hear and I texted her immediately upon landing. I have no idea who
this person is whether they are part of P.L.A.C.E PC https://place-pc.com/ or not. But
let's be clear, our group is not about "Aggression" but "Discussion," We've asked for a
meeting with Ryan Dickey to discuss the city's goals - not limited to Bonanza Five
Acres, but a collaborative meeting of the minds to understand what the city needs and
what the public needs. We believe there are solutions to every problem and/or ways to
create a win/win in every circumstance. We would very much like the opportunity to sit
in a room together and discuss the 5 acre project before it goes into City Planning. We
want the chance to "be heard" and not through news articles and websites. Please we
kindly request for this opportunity before June 10th. Look forward to hearing from you.”

Mayor Dickey closed the public input portion of the meeting.

IV.   CONSIDERATION OF MINUTES

1. Consideration to Approve the City Council Meeting Minutes from April 30, 2026
and May 7, 2026:

Council Member Toly moved to approve the City Council meeting minutes from April 30,
2026, and May 7, 2026. Council Member Parigian seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Ciraco, Miller, Parigian, Toly, and Zegarra

V.    CONSENT AGENDA

1. Request to Authorize the City Manager to Execute a 5-Year Agreement with
Cleverciti, LLC, in a Form Approved by the City Attorney’s Office, Not to Exceed
$1,042,366.90 to Standardize Data Collection across All Paid Parking Assets and
Improve Operational Efficiency:

2. Request to Authorize the City Manager to Execute a Betterment Agreement Not
to Exceed $160,000, in a Form Approved by the City Attorney's Office, for the
UDOT Marsac Roundabout Transit Priority Signal Project:

Council Member Ciraco moved to approve the Consent Agenda. Council Member Miller
seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Ciraco, Miller, Parigian, Toly, and Zegarra

VI.   NEW BUSINESS


Park City                                Page 8                             June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
Page|9

1. Request to Approve a New Level 4 Special Event Permit from Deer Valley to
Hold the US Open of Mountain Biking in a Form Approved by the City Attorney’s
Office:
Chris Phinney, Special Events Manager, and Garrett Lang, Deer Valley Mountain
Operations Senior Director, Carly Driscoll, Marketing Director, and Jason Dominguez,
Catering and Conference Sales Manager, presented this item. Phinney stated this event
request was during a local time period, which meant no events would take place during
that time period. He recommended approving the event and noted Deer Valley had
been a good partner with the City. This request was an athletic event and would
showcase Deer Valley’s world class resort and our world class town.

Lang stated Deer Valley hosted World Cup freestyle events and many athletic events in
years past. This was for the athletes and their families as well as spectators. Driscoll
indicated this national event had been going since 2003. It would be held September
10-13, and it would show off the trails and world class venue. Lang explained the layout
of the event and stated spectators needed a ticket, but the event was free.

Driscoll reviewed the benefits of hosting this event: the economic impact would drive
spending and increase lodging, Park City would have tourism exposure, community
pride, youth inspiration, support of local business, and there would be positive media
exposure establishing Park City as a mountain biking mecca. They anticipated 200-300
athletes attending. Lang indicated there would be safety planning, traffic coordination,
and public outreach efforts so the community could understand the impacts. Phinney
estimated there would be about 3,000 visitors per day during the event. He explained
the traffic plan for the event.

Council Member Toly stated many people would bike into the event, and she asked
about a bike plan. Phinney indicated the bikes would use the bike lanes and paths.
There was also overflow street parking. Council Member Toly asked about the outreach
to the residents of Deer Valley. Driscoll stated they had ongoing communication with the
HOAs in the form of emails and newsletters and the residents were always aware of the
events that were happening. Council Member Toly asked if this event would return
annually or if it went to different places each year. Driscoll stated it was intended to
continue each year, but they were using this year as a test to see how it would go.

Council Member Ciraco felt this was an amazing event and he thanked Deer Valley for
hosting it. He hoped it would be a continual event. Council Member Miller was excited to
see this event come to life and wanted it to be a long-lasting tradition. Council Member
Zegarra asked if there was a cap on tickets, to which Driscoll said no. Council Member
Ciraco asked Deer Valley to reach out to the local mountain biking teams to which they
affirmed. Council Member Parigian asked if this was a new event or if it used to be held
all over the country. Driscoll stated it went all over the country and Deer Valley wanted
to be one of the five stops that they went to.

Mayor Dickey opened the public hearing.

Park City                                 Page 9                             June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
P a g e | 10

Nick Van Dine 84060 competed in Deer Valley races from 1999-2007 and it was
disappointing when they lost that event. He thought it was important to bring it back and
stated it was one of the coolest cycling events in the U.S. He asserted there were 250
people at Park City schools that are in the mountain biking program.

Tyler Barnes 84098 was new to the community. He had a long background in mountain
biking, and he stated events like this provided many benefits to the community. He
thought this would bring a great economic impact to the community.

Graham Wagner 84060 thanked Deer Valley for putting on this event. He especially
liked the gravity racing and was excited to see it. This event carried a big prize purse,
and it would attract an international crowd as well.

Mike Tobia 84098 stated he and his kids were mountain bikers and he was excited to do
this with his kids.

Jeff Thalhammer stated his kids were on the Park City Mountain Biking Team and he
supported this event.

Mitchell Andrus eComment: “I'm writing in support of the proposed Fox US Open of
Mountain Biking in Deer Valley this September. As a teenager, I raced my first mountain
bike race in 2000 at the NORBA Nationals. I also raced that series again in 2001. This
was a big-deal national race series that brought professional racers from all over the
world. It was a huge boon for mountain biking in Park City and Utah, and we need
something like that again!! More national attention to mountain biking, please. Solder
Hollow gets it with the UCI XC World Cup racing the following weekend. That's a big
deal; look it up if you're not aware. With shorter ski seasons, we need to take summer
sports seriously and push the resorts to build more MTB infrastructure. DV and PC are
great venues for this. LETS GOOOO!”

Traci Vaughn-Grutta eComment: “As a local Utah resident, a passionate fan of mountain
biking, and the parent of a Category 1, 17-year-old downhill mountain bike racer, I am
writing to express my enthusiastic support for approving the US Open event at Deer
Valley this September. Last year, our family traveled across the country to Killington,
Vermont, so my son could compete on a national stage. While it was incredible for him
to interact with top-level athletes and industry sponsors, it highlighted a major gap: Utah
has some of the best mountain biking terrain in the world, yet our local downhill talent
lacks a premier national-level race in their own backyard. Bringing the US Open to Deer
Valley would elevate the visibility of Utah’s gravity athletes and allow our legendary local
fan base to show up and support the sport. Furthermore, I have seen firsthand the
unique atmosphere and financial impact of this exact event. The US Open is a highly
produced festival featuring top announcers, prominent brand activations, and massive
spectator appeal. During our trip to Vermont, our family stayed in a local short-term
rental, shopped at local grocery stores, rented equipment from local bike shops, and
dined daily at local restaurants. Bringing this caliber of event to Park City in September

Park City                                 Page 10                              June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
P a g e | 11

provides a massive, proven economic boost exactly when the community needs it
most—during the traditional shoulder season. Utah is already proving it can handle
world-class cycling by hosting a UCI Cross-Country event this year. Approving the US
Open at Deer Valley allows us to prove we can "do it all," cementing Park City as a
premier, year-round gravity destination and opening the door for future global events
like UCI Downhill World Cups. I urge the council to approve this proposal and bring the
vibrant energy and economic power of the US Open back to Deer Valley's iconic dirt.”

Rob Russell eComment: “I am writing in support of Deer Valley Resort’s request to host
the US Open of Mountain Biking. As the father of a junior mountain bike racer who
competes nationally and internationally, I have seen firsthand the positive impact that
high-level cycling events can have on young athletes, families, local communities, and
small businesses. Opportunities to compete, spectate, and learn from the world’s best
riders inspire the next generation and strengthen the outdoor recreation culture that has
long been part of Utah’s identity, and the West. As someone who regularly travels to
major mountain bike events and lives in proximity to Aspen, CO, I have seen how well-
organized events can create lasting benefits that extend far beyond race weekend.
They bring families together, encourage healthy lifestyles, create opportunities for local
youth, and introduce new visitors to the community. I believe Deer Valley has the
experience, infrastructure, and commitment necessary to host this event responsibly
and successfully. With proper planning and communication, the US Open of Mountain
Biking can be a source of pride for Park City and a positive experience for residents,
visitors, athletes, and local businesses alike. Further, Clay Harper and his team with the
Pro Downhill Series organizes events that rival the best events in the country. Thank
you for your time, consideration, and service to the community. I respectfully encourage
you to support Deer Valley’s permit request and help bring this exciting event to Park
City.”

Boston Bryant eComment: “I’m writing to ask you guys to please approve Deer Valley
Resort’s request to host the US Open of Mountain Biking here in Park City. As a 16-
year-old who races mountain bikes competitively both nationally and internationally,
having an event this huge in our own backyard would be insane. It’s an unbelievable
opportunity for local riders like me to see how we stack up against the best, and it really
puts our community on the map for the whole country to see. Park City is basically built
for this. Riding is a massive part of our culture and reputation here, so hosting the US
Open just makes sense. It’s going to bring in a ton of people, give a major boost to local
businesses and show everyone why this town is one of the best spots in the world for
outdoor sports. Deer Valley definitely has the trails and the setup to pull this off. If we
plan it right, the US Open is going to be an awesome experience for the locals, the
visitors, the businesses, and all the athletes competing. Thanks for taking the time to
read this and for everything you do for the town. I really hope you guys approve the
permit and help bring this event to Park City.”

Hollie Bryant eComment: “I am writing in support of Deer Valley Resort’s request to host
the US Open of Mountain Biking in Park City. As the parent of a junior mountain bike

Park City                                 Page 11                              June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
P a g e | 12

athlete who competes nationally and internationally, I believe this event will have a
positive on athletes, families, local businesses. Hosting an event of this caliber in Park
City would provide an incredible opportunity for young riders while showcasing our
community on a national stage. The US Open is a natural fit with our outdoor culture,
heritage, and reputation. It would attract visitors, support local businesses, and further
strengthen Park City’s standing as a world-class recreation destination. I believe Deer
Valley has the experience and infrastructure necessary to host this event. With proper
planning, the US Open can be a positive experience for residents, visitors, athletes, and
businesses alike. Thank you for your time, consideration, and service. I respectfully
encourage you to support Deer Valley’s permit request and help bring this exciting event
to Park City.”

Colby Bryant eComment: “I am writing in support of Deer Valley Resort’s request for a
permit to host the US Open of Mountain Biking in Park City. As the parent of a junior
mountain bike athlete who competes throughout the United States and internationally, I
understand the value that events of this caliber bring to athletes, families, local
businesses, and host communities. Having the opportunity for young riders to compete,
learn from, and be inspired by some of the best athletes in the sport is invaluable, and
hosting such an event close to home would be especially meaningful for many Utah
families. Park City has long been recognized as one of North America’s premier
mountain biking destinations. With its extensive trail network, strong cycling culture, and
history as one of the earliest and longest-running hosts of gravity racing, it is a natural fit
for an event like the US Open. This event aligns with Park City’s heritage, outdoor
recreation culture, and continued commitment to being a world-class destination for
sport and tourism. In addition to celebrating our community’s deep roots in mountain
biking, the US Open would generate meaningful economic activity for local businesses
through lodging, dining, retail purchases, and tourism-related spending. Similar events
have demonstrated the strong interest and attendance that mountain biking can attract,
bringing visitors who often return to experience the community again in the future.
Through my involvement in the mountain bike community, I have seen firsthand how
well-organized events create lasting benefits. They encourage healthy lifestyles, provide
positive opportunities for youth, support local businesses, and bring communities
together around a shared passion for outdoor recreation and sport. I am confident that
Deer Valley has the experience, infrastructure, and operational expertise necessary to
host this event responsibly and professionally. With thoughtful planning and
communication, the US Open of Mountain Biking can be a positive experience for
residents, visitors, athletes, and businesses while further strengthening Park City’s
reputation as a leading outdoor recreation destination. Thank you for your time,
consideration, and service to our community. I respectfully encourage you to support
Deer Valley’s permit request and help bring this exciting event to Park City. I look
forward to seeing our community come together this fall to celebrate both the sport and
the unique mountain biking legacy that Park City has built over many decades.”

Jackie Steiner eComment: “I am writing in support of Deer Valley Resort’s request to
host the US Open of Mountain Biking this September. As a member of Utah’s mountain

Park City                                  Page 12                                June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
P a g e | 13

biking community and a parent of a competitive athlete, I see this event as a
tremendous opportunity for Park City, Utah, and the sport of downhill mountain biking.
Hosting a national-level event at Deer Valley would showcase Utah’s world-class riding,
highlight local athletes, and reinforce Park City’s longstanding role in gravity racing and
mountain bike culture. For athletes and families across the state, having the US Open in
Utah is especially meaningful. Competing at this level often requires expensive travel
across the country. Bringing the event here significantly reduces those costs while
allowing more Utah athletes to participate, gain exposure, and compete against the best
riders in the sport. This event would also provide substantial economic benefits by
attracting athletes, families, spectators, and industry partners from around the country.
Those visitors will support local hotels, restaurants, shops, and businesses while
experiencing everything Park City has to offer. Just as importantly, Deer Valley’s
willingness to invest in and support downhill mountain biking demonstrates a
commitment to helping the sport grow. Hosting the US Open creates opportunities for
local youth, inspires the next generation of riders, and strengthens Utah’s position as a
premier destination for mountain biking. I believe Deer Valley has the experience,
infrastructure, and commitment necessary to host this event responsibly and
successfully. I respectfully encourage you to support Deer Valley’s permit request and
help bring this incredible opportunity to Park City. Thank you for your time,
consideration, and service to the community.”

Candice Smoot eComment: “I wanted to let you know that my family supports Deer
Valley’s request for a permit to host the US Open of mountain biking. We are so excited
for more athletes and supporters to experience the amazing bike trails that Summit
County has to offer. I can’t imagine a better host city than Park City with its natural
beauty, hospitality, shopping and great food. We also look forward to the business it will
bring during the shoulder season. As mountain bikers we love the opportunity for Park
City to host such a great event. Thank you for your consideration and time!”

Zoë Harbertson eComment: “I’m writing in support of Deer Valley Resort’s request for a
permit to host the US Open of Mountain Biking as a coach and athlete that would love
to participate in an event of this caliber in our backyard. I believe this will not only help
bolster our local business, but is also in alignment with our community, our culture and
our goals. With appropriate management and messaging I believe this event could be
an incredible opportunity for our residents, our workforce and our visitors to come
together to celebrate sport at the highest level and Park City’s history as one of the first
and longest running hosts of gravity racing in North America. I look forward to the
councils support for this incredible opportunity and gathering together this fall to
celebrate our community and sport.”

Lance Clifford eComment: “I am writing in support of Deer Valley Resort’s request to
host the US Open of Mountain Biking. As the father of a junior mountain bike racer who
competes nationally and internationally, I have seen firsthand the positive impact that
high-level cycling events can have on young athletes, families, local communities, and
small businesses. Opportunities to compete, spectate, and learn from the world’s best

Park City                                  Page 13                               June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
P a g e | 14

riders inspire the next generation and strengthen the outdoor recreation culture that has
long been part of Utah’s identity. Park City has a rich history in mountain biking and
gravity racing. Hosting an event of this caliber is a natural fit for the community and
reinforces Park City’s reputation as one of North America’s premier outdoor recreation
destinations. The US Open would bring visitors from across the country and around the
world, generating economic activity for local businesses while showcasing the incredible
trails, scenery, and hospitality that make Park City special. As someone who works in
tourism-related industries and regularly travels to major mountain bike events, I have
seen how well-organized events can create lasting benefits that extend far beyond race
weekend. They bring families together, encourage healthy lifestyles, create
opportunities for local youth, and introduce new visitors to the community. I believe Deer
Valley has the experience, infrastructure, and commitment necessary to host this event
responsibly and successfully. With proper planning and communication, the US Open of
Mountain Biking can be a source of pride for Park City and a positive experience for
residents, visitors, athletes, and local businesses alike. Thank you for your time,
consideration, and service to the community. I respectfully encourage you to support
Deer Valley’s permit request and help bring this exciting event to Park City.”

Marnie O’Malley eComment: “I am writing in strong support of Deer Valley Resort’s
request for a permit to host the US Open of Mountain Biking in Park City. As the parent
of a young rider on a mountain biking team, I have had the privilege of watching my son
fall in love with this sport. Mountain biking has given him confidence, determination,
responsibility, and a sense of belonging. It has taught him how to work hard, overcome
challenges, and support his teammates—lessons that extend far beyond the trail. For
young riders like my son, the opportunity to see world-class athletes compete in our
own backyard would be incredibly meaningful. Events like the US Open inspire kids to
dream bigger, work harder, and believe that their goals are within reach. It is rare to
have the chance to bring that level of competition and inspiration directly to the
community where they ride and train. Mountain biking is part of what makes Park City
special. Our community has a rich history in the sport, and hosting the US Open would
celebrate that legacy while showcasing Park City as a place where outdoor recreation,
youth development, and community come together. It would also provide meaningful
benefits to local businesses and create an exciting opportunity for residents and visitors
to gather around something that reflects the values and culture of our town. As a parent,
I would love for my son and so many other local kids to experience the excitement,
inspiration, and sense of community that an event like this can bring. I believe the US
Open would be a positive addition to Park City and an investment in the next generation
of riders. Thank you for your time, consideration, and service to our community. I
respectfully encourage you to support this opportunity and help make this event a
reality.”

R.G. Pattison eComment: “I would like to thank you for considering this amazing
opportunity. I think it would be amazing to have the US Open here in Utah and draw
loads of athletes, tourists, and fun! Thanks on behalf of Outlaw and the entire
community.”

Park City                                Page 14                              June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
P a g e | 15

Scott House eComment: “I’m writing in support of Deer Valley Resort’s request for a
permit to host the US Open of Mountain Biking as a 20+ year member of the Park City
workforce, a previous resident, community servant and parent of a young athlete who
would cherish the opportunity to participate in an event of this caliber in our backyard. I
believe this will not only help bolster our local business, but believe this event is
squarely in alignment with our heritage as a community, our culture and our goals. With
appropriate management and messaging I believe this event could be an incredible
opportunity for our residents, our workforce and our visitors to come together to
celebrate sport at the highest level and Park City’s history as one of the first and longest
running hosts of gravity racing in North America. I look forward to the councils support
for this incredible opportunity and gathering together this fall to celebrate our community
and sport. Thank you for your service, your time and consideration.”

Eric Porter eComment: “This comment is in strong support of approving the Special
Event Permit for the US Open of Mountain Biking at Deer Valley. This event will be a
short term and long term benefit to our community. First off our local athletes young and
old will get to race their bikes alongside the best racers in the world, our national
champions, our heroes. Usually our local athletes have to travel around the country to
enter a race of this caliber, it will be great to have a home round for them, and introduce
new riders to the sport of DH racing. Economically this will bring more visitors to fill beds
and restaurants during a time of year that is starting to slow down for out of town
visitation. Finally, this will bring new residents and businesses to our community. My first
visit to Park City was in 2001 for the NORBA National Downhill Race. This community
made such a big impact on me that I moved to Old Town Park City in 2005 and have
lived in this community continually since then, raising my family here.”

Alissa Van Wie eComment: “I’m writing to support Deer Valley hosting the U.S. Open.
This event provides a great opportunity for our local youth athletes to see the best in the
field.”

Ben Pattison eComment: “As an active member of the Utah mountain biking community,
riding cross-country and downhill trails across the state, I strongly support the approval
of this permit. Bringing nationally recognized events to the state adds to the reputation
of our world-class facilities, as well as gives opportunity for locals to experience world-
class racing. We are seeing a resurgence in the success of US racers on the internal
circuit, now is great time to take up the chance to host such an event.”

Stephanie Leonard eComment: “I am writing to express my strong support of Deer
Valley Resort's request for a permit to host the US Open of Mountain Biking. As a parent
of two expert level mountain bike racer, our family travels extensively throughout the
United States and Internationally to attend competitions. These events not only provide
valuable athletic opportunities for young athletes but introduce families to new
communities, destinations and local businesses. Hosting the US Open of Mountain
Biking at Deer Valley would showcase Park City as a premier outdoor recreation
destination to hundreds of althetes, families, coaches and spectators from across the

Park City                                 Page 15                               June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
P a g e | 16

country and around the world. Events of this caliber generate significant economic
benefits through lodging, dining, shopping and tourism related spending while
highlighting Deer Valleys Bike Park. Park City has earned a reputation as a leader in
outdoor recreation and hosting the US Open of Mountain Biking would further
strengthen that reputation. Deer Valley has the experience, infrastructure and
commitment to excellence necessary to successfully host an event of this magnitude
while providing a positive experience for participants and residents alike. Thank you for
your consideration and for your continued support of outdoor recreation and high caliber
competitive events.”

Sydney Thorson eComment: “I wanted to share my support for the Fox US Open of
Mountain Biking. These are exactly the kind of events that we need in our community to
showcase the incredible recreation and hospitality Park City is known for. Additionally,
this event will bring in locals and visitors alike to drive revenue in town during our
shoulder season.”

Chris Spealler eComment: “I am writing in support of Deer Valley Resort’s request to
host the US Open of Mountain Biking. My son is a junior mountain bike racer who
competes nationally and internationally. Gravity based mountain biking has been an
instrumental aspect of his mental and social health. I have seen firsthand the positive
impact that high-level cycling events can have on young athletes, families, local
communities, and small businesses through a number of the team events we have done
with him. Opportunities to compete, spectate, and learn from the world’s best riders
inspire the next generation and strengthen the outdoor recreation culture that has long
been part of Utah’s identity. I have been a local to Park City for nearly 25 years, 19 of
which my family has owned and operated a small business in town. I have great
memories of the Scott Enduro Cup being held in Deer Valley in the past. Park City's
history in mountain biking and gravity racing provide an excellent alignment with the
event and I believe can help to continually progress the movement of mountain biking
and highlight Park City with how both have evolved over the years. Hosting an event of
this caliber is a natural fit for the community and reinforces Park City’s reputation as one
of North America’s premier outdoor recreation destinations. The US Open would bring
visitors from across the country and around the world, generating economic activity for
local businesses, which I appreciate and value as one myself, while showcasing the
incredible trails, scenery, and hospitality that make Park City special. The benefits go far
beyond the competitive weekend but brings our community together, welcomes those
from around the world to experience all that Park City has to offer, and support our local
businesses. It's an exciting opportunity to have the caliber of riders come thorough with
a chance to both race, and experience the additional trails, activities, and community
gatherings Park City has to offer. I am confident, and believe that Deer Valley has the
experience, infrastructure, and commitment necessary to host this event responsibly
and successfully. With proper planning and communication, the US Open of Mountain
Biking can be a source of pride for Park City and a positive experience for residents,
visitors, athletes, and local businesses alike. Thank you for your time, consideration,


Park City                                 Page 16                              June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
P a g e | 17

and service to the community. I respectfully encourage you to support Deer Valley’s
permit request and help bring this exciting event to Park City.”

Scott Hove eComment: “Thanks a lot for considering DV's interest in holding the US
Open of Mountain biking this fall. Deer Valley has a long history of downhill racing and it
has been a while since we've had a big race here. Solitude brought the Monster DH
here last year, which was awesome, and that series is growing. Mountain biking has
changed a lot in Park City in the last handful of years. Park City has always been a
cross country biking mecca, but there are a lot of new downhill trails. This is changing
the face of mountain biking here and bringing a lot more visitors and locals onto these
great new trails. The US Open at DV would solidify that Utah wants to continue to grow
downhill racing in the state and that Park City/ DV want to be at the forefront of that.”

Maya and Thomas Lazenby eComment: “I'm reaching out to share my enthusiastic
support for Deer Valley Resort's request to host the US Open of Mountain Biking. As a
mother of a 13yr old mountain bike racer, I can't tell you how exciting it would be to have
an event of this caliber in Park City! Beyond the thrill for our local athletes, I truly believe
this event is a perfect fit for who we are as a community – it celebrates our rich heritage,
our love of sport, and our values. Deer Valley has the experience, infrastructure, and
commitment to host this event responsibly and successfully. I'm confident that with
thoughtful planning and management, this could be such a special opportunity for all of
us – residents, local workers, and visitors alike – to come together and celebrate what
makes Park City the amazing mountain town that it is! I'm hopeful you'll support this
exciting opportunity, and I'm already looking forward to cheering alongside our
community this fall! Thank you so much for your time, consideration, and service to this
great community. I encourage you to support Deer Valley's permit request and help
bring this exciting event to Park City.”

Mayor Dickey closed the public hearing.

Council Member Toly stated this event was exciting and she was happy this event was
coming back. Council Member Ciraco thanked Deer Valley for their public outreach and
was grateful for the public comments that were submitted and given.

Council Member Ciraco moved to approve a new Level 4 Special Event Permit from
Deer Valley to hold the US Open of Mountain Biking in a form approved by the City
Attorney’s Office. Council Member Zegarra seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Ciraco, Miller, Parigian, Toly, and Zegarra

2. Consideration to Approve Ordinance No. 2026-14, an Ordinance Amending Title
12 of the Municipal Code of Park City to Allow Temporary Leasing Signs for New
Developments:


Park City                                   Page 17                                June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
P a g e | 18

Virgil Lund, Planning Department, presented this item and reviewed that Council
directed staff to look at the existing sign code to identify potential amendments to
provide greater flexibility for leasing signs. The proposed amendments would bridge the
gap. Once the Certificate of Occupancy has been issued, the development could post
the signs. Staff researched comparable communities and met with leasing agents. The
amendments set new regulations for leasing signs. He noted there was unanimous
approval from Planning Commission.

Council Member Zegarra felt this would help with affordable housing advertising and he
supported it. Council Member Ciraco thanked staff for getting this done.

Mayor Dickey opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Mayor Dickey
closed the public hearing.

Council Member Zegarra moved to approve Ordinance No. 2026-14, an ordinance
amending Title 12 of the Municipal Code of Park City to allow temporary leasing signs
for new developments. Council Member Toly seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Ciraco, Miller, Parigian, Toly, and Zegarra

3. Consideration to Authorize the City Manager to Execute a Construction
Agreement, in a Form Approved by the City Attorney, with Silver Spur
Construction Not to Exceed $1,334,150.00 to Construct the Pinnacle Subdivision
Waterline Replacement Project:
Harrison Holley, Public Utilities Engineer, reviewed the deterioration of water lines in this
area. He stated construction impacts would be minimal. Construction was planned for
mid-June and it would be completed in mid-October.

Council Member Ciraco asked if this project would replace all the lines in the streets.
Holley stated this was a planned unit development, so it was all done around the same
period. They would replace the water main in the road and the connections to the
meters. Council Member Toly asked if this was the only waterline project being done this
summer. Holley stated they put out an RFP for another project and would bring that
contract back to Council soon.
Mayor Dickey opened public input. No comments were given. Mayor Dickey closed
public input.

Council Member Ciraco moved to authorize the City Manager to execute a construction
agreement, in a form approved by the City Attorney, with Silver Spur Construction not to
exceed $1,334,150.00 to construct the Pinnacle Subdivision Waterline Replacement
Project. Council Member Miller seconded the motion.




Park City                                 Page 18                               June 4, 2026
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 4, 2026
P a g e | 19


RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Ciraco, Miller, Parigian, Toly, and Zegarra

VII.   ADJOURNMENT

With no further business, the meeting was adjourned.
                                                       _________________________
                                                       Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder




Park City                              Page 19                            June 4, 2026
2026 Water Impact Fee
   Update of 2014 Impact Fee
                         Cost Escalation
            Water Impact Fee Escalation Scenarios
                                                                        Park City Actual Annual
  Year         2.5%          3.0%        3.5%        3.9%                Cost Escalation Rate
  2014        $16,579       $16,579     $16,580     $16,579
  2015        $16,993       $17,076     $17,160     $17,226   Expense        2020 → 2025      Future
  2016        $17,418       $17,589     $17,761     $17,897
  2017        $17,854       $18,116     $18,383     $18,595   Operational        19%              3%
  2018        $18,300       $18,660     $19,026     $19,321   Capital         26% - 59%           4%
  2019        $18,758       $19,220     $19,692     $20,074
  2020        $19,227       $19,796     $20,381     $20,857
  2021        $19,707       $20,390     $21,094     $21,670
  2022        $20,200       $21,002     $21,833     $22,516
  2023        $20,705       $21,632     $22,597     $23,394
  2024        $21,223       $22,281     $23,388     $24,306
  2025        $21,753       $22,949     $24,206     $25,254
  2026        $22,297       $23,638     $25,054     $26,239

Note: Maximum allowable fee in 2026 is $26,449
                 Confirm direction on:
2026 Impact Fee Adoption
    •   Water Impact Fee Facilities Plan (IFFP)
    •   Water Impact Fee Analysis (IFA)
    •   Amended Title 11, Chapter 13 of the Park City Code

Impact Fee Amount
    •   Max allowable fee puts full cost on development

Timeline if Directed to Move Forward
    •     A notice of Public Hearing 10 days prior
    •     Public Hearing and adoption on June 25th
    •     New fee takes effect 90 days after Public Hearing and adoption
                    2023 Water Rate Update
2023 Goals and Parameters
a. Minimum thresholds of revenue
      i. 150 days min cash
      ii. 120% of annual debt service
      iii. Adequate repair and replacement budget
b. 10% revenue increase
c. Approx 50% of total revenue from base fee
d. Cost based fee structure - Revenue from each customer class to be proportional to their total water consumption
e. Added tiers with higher cost burden on high water users



       Customer Class and     Number of    Percent Revenue                        Percent Total
           Meter Size        Connections       Increase       Percent Revenue   Water Consumption
     Commercial                 374              24%               32%                33%
     Irrigation                 178              29%                9%                 8%
     Multi-Family               317              9%                17%                18%
     Residential               4,628             3%                42%                41%
                    2026 Water Rate Update
2026 Changes
a. Single Family Residential
        a. Added four consumption fee structures base on property size
        b. Same base rate for all properties
        c. Base rate includes 2,000 gallons
b. Irrigation
        a. Consumption fee based on irrigated area
        b. Base rate based on irrigated area
c. Multi Family and Commercial – 4.5% increase in base and consumption fee



       Customer Class and    Number of    Percent Revenue                       Percent Total
           Meter Size       Connections       Increase      Percent Revenue   Water Consumption
     Commercial                374             4.5%              37%                33%
     Irrigation                178             -13%               7%                 8%
     Multi-Family              317             4.5%              20%                18%
     Residential               4,628           -19%              37%                41%
          2027 Water Rate Update
1. No rate change for FY 2027
2. Recommendation to conduct a water rate study
     •   AWWA recommends comprehensive water rates studies every 3 to 5 years
     •   Determine revenue requirements
     •   Fair allocation of costs to customers
     •   Design rates reflecting clear and updated water policy
3. Rate Study will inform future water rate changes starting with FY 2028
Budget Preview
  FY27 Final Budget
 FY26 Revised Budget
              Budget Meetings

•   June 4 – Discuss changes to the FY27 Tentative Budget and FY26
    adjustments

•   June 11 - Public hearing, Redevelopment Agency and Municipal
    Building Authority budget adoption, Fee Schedule adoption

•   June 25 – Public hearing, Park City Municipal Corporation final
    budget adoption
            Compensation
•   Staff Recommends a 5% Compensation Increase to
    Budget
    • Implement a 2% COLA
    • Implement a 3% Merit Increase
        • Performance
        • Experience
        • Placement in the Pay Band
Other benefits to remain in place
                      Public Safety

Capital - Barricades and Trailers Project

   • Originally adopted in FY27 Tentative Budget
   • Recommend allocating to FY26 Adjusted
     Budget
   • Barricades can be used immediately for
     Summer events on Main Street
Arts Master Plan Implementation
• Arts Council Request - $65,000/yr (with $65,000 County
  match) to hire FTE for master plan implementation

• Current PCMC Support (FY27) –
   • $40,000/yr for PAAB facilitation; public project
     management; long-range planning
   • $26,000/yr for plan implementation; CREATE PC affordable
     maker space program
Arts Master Plan Implementation
Considerations and Options for Council Support
• Provide full ($65,000) or partial support with proportional
  county match
• Any new FY27 allocation not offset elsewhere will draw on
  fund balance
• Potential offsets:
   • Redirect the remaining $26,000 from the current contract
     (preferred)
   • Reallocate from the $136,000 Emergent Community Needs
     Fund (least preferred).
US Open of Mountain Biking
      at Deer Valley
 Event Approval Presentation • Park City Municipal Council • September 10–13, 2026
OUR COMMITMENT TO SPORT



Built for world-class events
Deer Valley has long been a proving ground for elite athletes and a welcoming host to the families and
fans who follow them. Stewarding competition responsibly is part of who we are.




01                                              02                                               03
World-Class Host                                Athletes & Families                              Responsible Stewardship


Decades of hosting premier winter and           An environment that supports elite               A track record of running events that respect
summer competition, from Olympic legacy         competitors while welcoming youth, adaptive      the mountain, the community, and our
events to national race series.                 athletes, and spectating families.               neighbors.




                                                          Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
EV EN T OV ER VIEW




The US Open of Mountain Biking

What                 The nation’s highest-sanctioned downhill mountain bike
                     race, athletes, teams, and fans from across the country.


When                 September 10–13, 2026, a four-day annual event in the
                     shoulder season. Load-in September 8-9


Where                Bald Eagle Peak on existing trails, with the base venue at
                     Snow Park Lodge.


Why Deer Valley      A natural showcase for our trail system and our
                     commitment to the outdoor community.




                                                            Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
EV EN T OV ER VIEW


At a glance


4                                          10,000                                                FREE                         SEPT
DAY S OF RAC IN G                          E S T IM A T E D A T T E ND AN C E                    TIC KET ED ADMISSION         SHOU LDER SEASON


Thursday through Sunday                    Peak of 3,500 on Saturday                             Open and accessible to all   Fits the community calendar




A Level 4 annual event held during the quiet shoulder season, with minimal disruption to city infrastructure.




                                                                         Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
COMMUNITY BENEFITS


Value for Park City

01   Economic Impact                                                                          02           Tourism Exposure
     Direct spending across lodging, dining, and local retail during a                                     National visibility for Park City and the Wasatch Back to new
     quieter season.                                                                                       visitors.


03   Community Pride                                                                          04           Youth Inspiration
                                                                                                           Youth and adaptive race categories that invite the next generation
     A marquee event that brings residents and visitors together.
                                                                                                           into the sport.


05   Local Business                                                                           06           Positive Media
     Increased visitation that supports the businesses at the heart of our                                 Showcasing Deer Valley’s trail system and the outdoor community
     community.                                                                                            we serve.




                                                                    Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
COMMUNITY BENEFITS


Measurable economic impact
Benchmarked against a comparable 2025 event at Solitude (Salt Lake Visitors Bureau report).




          $1.25M                                                              237                            200–300
       Direct business sales generated                                 Local jobs supported                  Out-of-town teams & athletes




Attendees include outdoor-recreation fans, bike enthusiasts, and Park City & Salt Lake families.




                                                                      Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
OP ERA T ION A L R EA DI NE S S


Thoughtfully planned, end to end

✓       Guest Management                          ✓       Safety Planning                            ✓      Traffic Coordination


Professional Kane Security staff at venue         Defined evacuation routes, amplified guidance,     A detailed egress plan developed and managed
entrances, high-traffic areas, and parking.       and a staffed command center.                      with Park City transit and officials.




✓       Community Communication                   ✓       Event Operations                           ✓      Agency Partnership


Advance notice of any affected trails or street   Existing trails and resort property used, with     DV incident commander coordinating directly
parking, with clear signage.                      load-in and load-out outside race days.            with Park City Police in any emergency.




                                                              Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
P A RK I N G & TR AN S P O RT AT I O N — M I TI GA TI O N P LA N




Proactively managing neighborhood impact

On-Site Parking
~900 vehicles in Snow Park lots, actively managed by DV staff and security.

Offsite Overflow
Richardson Flats Park & Ride holds up to 650 vehicles for all four days.

Public Transit
Silver 6 line every 20 min; riders reach Deer Valley in ~35 min via one transfer.

Egress Plan
A detailed 4:00–6:30 PM egress plan with controlled routing and clear signage.

Bike Valet
In-venue bike valet encourages guests to ride, not drive, to the event.

Agency Coordination
DV coordinates with city transportation officials on signage and street-parking needs.



                                                                               Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
C OMMUN I TY I MPA C T — GOOD N EI GHBOR C OM M IT M ENT


A responsible community partner

01    Noise Managed                                                                              02           Contained Footprint
      All amplified sound kept under 90 dB and within the city ordinance                                      Amplified noise stays within the event footprint around Snow Park
      window (9 AM–10 PM).                                                                                    Lodge.


03    Sustainability                                                                             04           Minimal Disruption
                                                                                                              Existing trails and resort property used, with little to no impact on
      Recycling stations and water refill points on site to limit waste.
                                                                                                              public access.


05    Open Communication                                                                         06           Long-Term Partnership
      Affected trails and parking communicated to the city well in                                            A commitment to ongoing dialogue and lasting community
      advance.                                                                                                relationships.




                                                                       Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
OP ERA T ION A L R EA DI NE S S


Event week timeline
                    Sep 8–9                                                       Sep 1 0–1 3                                                  Sep 1 4–1 5




                 Load-In                                                     Race Days                                                       Load-Out

                                                                     7 AM – 6:30 PM. Four days of
      8 AM – 6 PM. Venue build on resort                                                                                        8 AM – 6 PM. Site returned to normal;
                                                                    competition; egress managed each
     property; no parking or transit impact.                                                                                         minimal residual footprint.
                                                                               afternoon.




               Structures are limited to a finish arch, 10×10 tents, and semi-trailers, with power drawn from in-venue shore service and athlete-area generators.




                                                                         Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
      A strong addition to the Park City calendar
The US Open of Mountain Biking brings world-class sport, meaningful economic impact, and national
  visibility to Park City — with comprehensive safety and transportation plans already in place and a
                                 commitment to being a good neighbor.

                •                                   •                                   •
       Commitment to sport               Clear community benefit          Responsible, detailed planning



                             We respectfully request your approval.


                                         Thank you for your time.
[ FULL-BLEED CLOSING IMAGE — Park City / Deer Valley ]




                                                                 Park City, Utah




                                                         Utah’s premier ski-only destination.
Sign Code Amendments
    Ordinance No. 2026-14
                    Background
• Existing definitions and regulations for Real Estate and Construction
  Marketing Signs do not allow the advertising of for-lease Units.
• On December 11, 2025, the City Council requested Staff review the
  existing Sign Code to identify potential amendments to provide greater
  flexibility for leasing signs for projects with units for lease.
                   Background
• Staff researched comparable communities and met with leasing agents
  from the Studio Crossing and EngineHouse developments.
• The Planning Commission discussed proposed amendments at a work
  session on February 25 and April 22.
• On May 13, the Planning Commission forwarded a positive
  recommendation for City Council’s consideration.
                  Amendments
• New definition and regulations for Leasing Signs.
   • Maximum of 32 Square Feet.
   • Issued at Certificate of Occupancy, removed within 12 months or
      when Units are 90% leased.
   • Cannot be installed at the same time as a Construction Marketing
      Sign.
   • One allowed per project.
• Allow Temporary Portable Signs in the CT Zoning District.
          Ordinance 2026-14
• Open a public hearing and consider approving Ordinance 2026-14 to
  allow new Developments to advertise for-lease Units.
PINNACLE SUBDIVISION
  WATERLINE REPLACEMENT
    PINNACLE WATERLINE REPLACEMENT
PROJECT LOCATION
•   Lower Deer Valley – Pinnacle Subdivision
•   Deer Valley Drive North Corridor
•   Aging residential water infrastructure
    PINNACLE WATERLINE REPLACEMENT
EXISTING CONDITIONS
•   Projects are prioritized through the Water
    Department’s Asset Management Program
    using factors including condition, break history,
    reliability, operational impacts, and funding.
•   Existing cast iron and PVC waterlines were
    installed in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
•   Multiple waterline breaks have occurred over
    the last five years resulting in emergency
    repairs, water loss, roadway damage, and
    service interruptions.
    PINNACLE WATERLINE REPLACEMENT
PROJECT SCOPE
•   Replacement of aging waterline infrastructure.
•   Replacement of water services, fire services,
    and fire hydrants.
•   Restoration of roadway and disturbed areas.
•   Installation of fiber conduit to support
    communication improvements at two remote
    water facilities.
    PINNACLE WATERLINE REPLACEMENT
CONSTRUCTION IMPACTS
•   Temporary traffic and access impacts during construction.
•   Residential access maintained throughout construction.
•   Planned intermittent water shutdowns with advance notice.
•   Contractor responsible for traffic control and mitigation.


COMMUNICATIONS PLAN
•   Coordination with Pinnacle HOA.
•   Door hangers distributed to residents.
•   Neighborhood-specific Nextdoor updates.
•   Ongoing coordination throughout construction.
    PINNACLE WATERLINE REPLACEMENT
SCHEDULE
•   Construction Start: June 12, 2026
•   Substantial Completion: October 15, 2026



BUDGET
•   Lowest responsive and responsible bidder selected
    through the City’s public bidding process.
•   Construction Amount: $1,334,150
•   Funding Source: Water Enterprise Fund
PINNACLE WATERLINE REPLACEMENT
REQUESTED ACTION
Staff recommends Council approve a Construction Agreement with
Silver Spur Construction in an amount not to exceed $1,334,150.




QUESTIONS?
