PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
445 MARSAC AVENUE
PARK CITY, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 84060

October 29, 2020

The Council of Park City, Summit County, Utah, met in open meeting on October 29,
2020, at 4:30 p.m. The meeting was a remote, electronic meeting due to the declared
public health emergency.

Mayor Beerman read the Determination of Substantial Health and Safety Risk.

Council Member Henney moved to close the meeting to discuss property and litigation
at 4:30 p.m. Council Member Worel seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

CLOSED SESSION

Council Member Worel moved to adjourn from Closed Meeting at 5:00 p.m. Council
Member Gerber seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

During the break, local artist Wyatt Pike performed on the guitar.

WORK SESSION

Summit County Affordable Housing Solutions Report Presented by Habitat for
Humanity of Summit & Wasatch County:
Jason Glidden, Affordable Housing Manager, Allison Kuhlow, Historic Park City Alliance
(HPCA) Executive Director, and Shellie Barrus, Habitat for Humanity (HFH) Executive
Director, presented this item. Barrus stated the HFH launched a Cost of Home
campaign nationally and they hoped to help 10 million individuals obtain housing. The
report prepared for the City included a focus on resources for home production and
equitable access to land. They met with leaders from Summit and Wasatch Counties.
The workgroup in Summit County reviewed policies and looked at what worked for other
communities. Kuhlow added that the workgroup focused on policy, funding sources, use
of existing housing stock and advocacy. She pointed out that Park City had been
emphasizing affordable housing for some time. She noted additional solutions for
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
Page|2

affordable housing which included reducing the standard designs for land development,
such as reducing the width of driveways; concurrent reviews and approvals of projects
to reduce the time it would take to process a project; implementing a demolition tax that
could be used for affordable housing; and implementing a percentage contribution or a
portion of open space purchases to fund affordable housing.

Council Member Joyce indicated there had been discussions on expanding the setup
projects beyond the master planned developments (MPD) to pay into the affordable
housing fund or provide affordable housing. He asked if HFH could push for some State
or regional legislative changes so Park City wouldn't be the one asking for it. Barrus
thought HFH and other affordable housing groups could talk with legislators about
changing some laws at the State level. Council Member Joyce asked how that initiative
could get going. He felt it would be great to pool resources. Barrus stated HFH could
reach out to some of the areas the ideas came from, and then bring people together to
make plans on what would happen in the next legislative session. She noted HFH didn't
have the resources to support the legal side of this. Council Member Doilney suggested
asking the Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT) to see what other communities
could be aligned with and collaborate together. He asked if Park City was that different
from other cities with affordable housing problems. Mayor Beerman felt this was a
unique city, but many communities were struggling with affordable housing. These were
statewide problems and the State had subcommittees that were working on them. He
requested that he and Dias be given the opportunity to discuss this with ULCT if that
was the direction Council wanted to go. Council Member Doilney thought the demolition
tax was interesting and noted it could be a real benefit to Park City. Council Member
Gerber agreed and hoped there was a way to make the tax work by getting the
legislature to change the law. She requested a future discussion on funding for
affordable housing. Council Member Worel expressed interest in looking at altering
driveways and parking areas to save space. Mayor Beerman stated there was an
increase in sales tax years ago and a portion went towards open space. Next to several
open space parcels was buildable land. He thought affordable housing would fit well in
those areas.

Council Member Joyce liked the idea of having a discussion for funding affordable
housing. Mayor Beerman indicated he would like a half day discussion on housing in the
next couple of months.

Preliminary Aerial Study – Phase 1 Feasibility Update:
Mayor Beerman reviewed feedback from the visioning process was to have bold and
innovative solutions for traffic problems. One area was aerial transportation as a future
transportation mode. Julia Collins, Transportation Planner, and Franklin Williams,
Transit Coordinator, presented this item. Williams stated he asked Snow Engineering to
build some estimates on what it would cost to provide this type of transportation. Collins
stated the study was a high level look to see if aerial transportation was feasible in the

Park City                                Page 2                          October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
Page|3

City. The alignments for this mode of transportation would connect Park City Mountain
Resort, Deer Valley, the Arts and Culture District and Old Town. Williams reviewed the
operations for the system with longer hours in the winter and it would transport 1,500
people per hour, which could be increased with more cabins.

Williams stated the capital cost would be $64 million with operating costs of $3.5 million,
which didn't include utilities, land acquisition, permits and City staffing. Those factors
would add another $30-$35 million. He stated the main gondola paths would go above
338 private properties. He summarized this mode of transportation was feasible, but
had its challenges. This was a good connection and transportation link in town, but it did
not address regional connectivity. This study did not compare aerial transit to other
transportation modes.

Collins noted other cities that used gondolas included Telluride and Breckenridge,
Colorado. She proposed looking at gondolas in the long range and short range
transportation plans. She also recommended performing a nodal connection study
which would compare transportation costs and efficiencies. She stated the next steps
included finishing the transportation plans, performing the nodal analysis, acquiring
property for future transit opportunities and identifying funding strategies.

Council Member Doilney thought funding would be a problem, but the City needed to be
ready when a funding source arose. He thought the City should continue to prepare for
these opportunities. Council Member Worel agreed the City should be prepared when
funding appeared. She asked if property owners owned the airspace above their
properties. Williams stated the rule was that property owners owned 83 feet above the
highest spot on their properties. For gondolas, easements would be the way to get
around that. Council Member Worel asked if reliability would be studied in the nodal
analysis. Williams stated gondolas were number one for reliability in moving people
around. Collins recommended altering a State code which would restrict the alignment
of the gondola.

Discussion continued during the regular meeting.

REGULAR MEETING

   I)       ROLL CALL

    Attendee Name                                            Status
    Mayor Andy Beerman
    Council Member Max Doilney                               Present via
    Council Member Becca Gerber                              technology
    Council Member Tim Henney


Park City                                 Page 3                           October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
Page|4

      Council Member Steve Joyce
      Council Member Nann Worel
      Matt Dias, City Manager
      Margaret Plane, Special Counsel
      Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder
      None                                                   Excused

Preliminary Aerial Study – Phase 1 Feasibility Update (continued from Work
Session):
Council Member Gerber was excited to see aerial transportation being discussed. She
thought the local residents would ride the gondolas and there would be consistency for
employees getting to and from work. She favored the nodal analysis and trying to
acquire land for this purpose.

Council Member Joyce stated the City was working on the Arts and Culture District and
the resorts were building or rebuilding their bases and he hoped there were land
allocation plans for this mode. Mayor Beerman thought the resorts were aware and at
least Deer Valley supported this mode. Council Member Joyce thought it should be on
the back burner with the City nudging it along. He also thought it should start out of town
in order to get people in and out of town. He didn't think the City had to own land and
noted if the resorts wanted the gondola, they could provide the land. He thought it
should be a low priority lens when proceeding with current construction projects.

Council Member Henney stated Council had talked about this for a long time and he
was pleased to see the report. He liked to look at it as a springboard for future planning.
He agreed that the City needed to be prepared and referred to the previously mentioned
possibility that the Olympics might provide funding for this. He felt in addition to State
and Federal funding, the resorts might need to contribute as well. He favored the nodal
connection study to be in position if there were funding opportunities. He also thought
land should always be looked at for possible transportation opportunities.

Mayor Beerman stated he went with the high school students to the City's sister city,
Courchevel, France, and he used the gondolas to get around town. One takeaway was
they took very little manpower. He had a preliminary conversation with State and
Federal legislators and they thought this type of project could get some State and
Federal funding. He noted Park City had narrow roads and they couldn't be widened. He
felt a gondola or a fixed rail system would be needed to get people in and out of town.

The Council agreed to move forward with the nodal connections study.

II)     COMMUNICATIONS AND DISCLOSURES FROM COUNCIL AND STAFF



Park City                                 Page 4                          October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
Page|5

Council Questions and Comments:
Council Member Henney indicated the Summit Land Conservancy closed on another
property in Oakley for open space.

Council Member Worel indicated she enjoyed the desk concert between closed and
work session. Yesterday there was a roundtable on Arts, Culture and Resiliency and the
panelists were amazing.

Council Member Joyce stated that as of yesterday there were 18 applications for the
$900,000 in CARES Act money. The U.S. had very high COVID cases, including
Summit County. He was concerned the hospitals would be overwhelmed and would
have to prioritize who received care. He encouraged people to stay safe.

Mayor Beerman asked if Council was good with the 2021 Council meeting calendar
amendments that were emailed to them, to which they responded in the affirmative.
Mayor Beerman stated the policy on written agenda comments would be that future
written submitted comments would be in the written record only and not read aloud.
Council Member Joyce noted that Council read all submitted comments. Mayor
Beerman also stated the County was negotiating waste discussions and they were
ready to act. He asked if Cartin could send a letter to the County Council requesting
flexibility for the City to pursue a zero waste plan. The Council agreed that Cartin should
send the letter.

Staff Communications Report:

1. Park City Municipal Corporation StormReady Status Renewal:

III) PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON THE
AGENDA)

Mayor Beerman opened the meeting for anyone who wished to submit comments to the
Council on items not included on the agenda.

Steve Atwood via Zoom asked Council members to read an article about what the
County was doing for dark skies. Park City was a sanctuary for dark skies. He believed
in climate change. The night sky was beautiful, but could be terrifying.

Neal Krasnick via Zoom, stated he was interested in the gondola discussion, but noted it
was expensive. He suggested asking for funds for single rail transportation. All the
things the Council discussed were futuristic and he liked the new ideas and was against
single vehicles.




Park City                                 Page 5                          October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
Page|6

Jacob Marchlewski: eComment submitted after the meeting concluded: “If the City is to
consider aerial transit, feasibility of underground transit might also be a good thing to
consider. Not long ago, one could use the tunnel network to travel from the Mayflower
area near Jordanelle to near Downtown, and beyond to the Payday area. Using the
tunnels would likely require notable investment, but it would allow people to move more
discretely than a gondola, and using the existing connection to Mayflower could reduce
traffic on Kearns.”

Mayor Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting.

Matt Dias acknowledged three employees who were retiring: Deb Wilde, Engineering
Department, Maria Brandt, Parks Department Head Gardener, and John Pearce, Fleet
Department. He expressed great appreciation for these valuable employees and
highlighted some of their accomplishments. Mayor Beerman noted the City would lose
over 90 years of collective experience and he thanked these employees for all they did
for the community.

IV)   CONSIDERATION OF MINUTES

Consideration to Approve the City Council Meeting Minutes from October 1 and
13, 2020:

Council Member Gerber moved to approve the City Council meeting minutes from
October 1 and 13, 2020. Council Member Doilney seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

V)    CONSENT AGENDA

1. Request to Authorize the City Manager to Execute Contract Change Order No. 1
to the Construction Agreement with Stratton and Bratt Landscapes, LLC in a
Form Approved by the City Attorney in an Amount Not to Exceed $40,294.00:

2. Request to Adopt Resolution 23-2020, a Resolution Declaring November 1,
2020 as "Extra Mile Day" in Park City, Utah:

3. Request to Authorize a Second, One-Year Amendment to Continue the Park
City Municipal/Park City School District Fields Lease through November 8, 2021:

4. Request to Approve the Selection of Four Artworks for the Arts and Culture
District Construction Fencing and Authorize the City Manager to Execute a
Professional Services Agreement for Commissioned Art in a Form Approved by

Park City                                Page 6                          October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
Page|7

the City Attorney Not to Exceed $600.00 for Each Artwork - Anna Leigh Moore,
“Universe Below”; Libby Peterkort, “Breaking Ground”; Kathy Pratchett (JRES
3rd Grade Dual Language Immersion Class), “Thoughts, Ideas and Emotions: A
Tribute to Jackson Pollack”; and Lauren Penze, “Sky’s the Limit”:

Council Member Joyce moved to remove Item Four from the Consent Agenda and
approve Consent Agenda Items One, Two and Three. Council Member Worel seconded
the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

4. Request to Approve the Selection of Four Artworks for the Arts and Culture
District Construction Fencing and Authorize the City Manager to Execute a
Professional Services Agreement for Commissioned Art in a Form Approved by
the City Attorney Not to Exceed $600.00 for Each Artwork - Anna Leigh Moore,
“Universe Below”; Libby Peterkort, “Breaking Ground”; Kathy Pratchett (JRES
3rd Grade Dual Language Immersion Class), “Thoughts, Ideas and Emotions: A
Tribute to Jackson Pollack”; and Lauren Penze, “Sky’s the Limit”:
Council Member Joyce indicated he didn't have concerns with the art chosen, but he
expressed concern with the Arts and Culture District funding in general. He favored
having that discussion first. Mayor Beerman stated permission was given for the site
preparation this winter. Dias stated there was direction for site suitability and soil
remediation, and staff wanted the screening to be art. He noted this art would be owned
by the City and could be used for other purposes. He knew this was a very big decision
and staff was working to provide Council with a meaningful discussion. Dias stated staff
would return to Council before tearing down buildings to approve construction contracts,
but this was just preliminary work.

Council Member Worel thought tenants had been given notice because the City
intended to start demolition. Dias stated that was correct and noted the contracts were
being worked on, but staff wanted to give businesses notice so they could find other
locations. Council Member Doilney thought it made sense to get the preliminary work
done. Council Member Joyce thought this was a fiscal responsible decision and it was
easy to imagine that it could be delayed or altered because of the pandemic. He thought
there should be a fundamental discussion. Council Member Henney thought
demolishing the land would increase the value irrespective of moving forward with the
Arts and Culture District. Council Member Worel indicated there were always uses for a
flat lot.

Council Member Joyce stated he had asked for a discussion for six months and he was
frustrated. Other expenses were now showing up, but the cart was being put before the


Park City                               Page 7                         October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
Page|8

horse. He was okay supporting the fence, but he wanted a deeper discussion. Mayor
Beerman stated there would be a difficult discussion coming soon.

Council Member Joyce moved to approve the selection of four artworks for the Arts and
Culture District construction fencing and authorize the City Manager to execute a
professional services agreement for commissioned art in a form approved by the City
Attorney not to exceed $600.00 for each artwork - Anna Leigh Moore, “Universe Below”;
Libby Peterkort, “Breaking Ground”; Kathy Pratchett (JRES 3rd Grade Dual Language
Immersion Class), “Thoughts, Ideas and Emotions: A Tribute to Jackson Pollack”; and
Lauren Penze, “Sky’s the Limit”. Council Member Gerber seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

VI)    OLD BUSINESS

1. Park City Community Foundation (PCCF) Report:
Diego Zegarra and Katie Wright, Community Foundation, presented this item. Zegarra
thanked the City for the funding and moral leadership for Social Equity. He reviewed the
timeline of the Social Equity critical priority. He noted the key areas of focus for Social
Equity were affordable housing, inclusion, and education. Prior to the pandemic, PCCF
developed a needs assessment, held workshops, and shared best practices with
partner organizations. The following progress was made in the key areas: Affordable
Housing - a task force was created and PCCF connected with new partners for
advocacy and formed a coalition; Education and Early Childhood – PCCF continued
funding and support of the Early Childhood Alliance, PC Tots, and Holy Cross
Ministries, and employed expansion and support of other education initiatives; Inclusion
– PCCF shared best practices with partner organizations to support equity
conversations, and had an initial establishment of an equity advancement cohort.

Zegarra indicated inclusion was what was done every day. He felt this part of the work
was about humanization and raising empathy from the community. He also noted the
accomplishments of PCCF this year, including administering COVID response funds for
housing stability, forecasting a scope of work through 2021, expanded nonprofit
education, promoting an antiracist pledge, funding PPE efforts and hosting a
communication channel with the Latinx community. He felt change could be effected
when PCCF and PCMC worked together.

Council Member Gerber thanked PCCF for their work done so far, especially helping
those in need during the pandemic. The work continued to expand and evolve and she
hoped the work would be flexible to meet unexpected needs. She thought the affordable
housing element would be critical for the City. Zegarra explained the cohort was two
different education tracks, and 22 organizations would be represented in this training.

Park City                                 Page 8                          October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
Page|9

Council Member Doilney liked having the conversations, but he knew when one
problem was solved, another problem presented itself. He was grateful PCCF could
focus on Social Equity.

Wright stated the purpose of the Equity Cohort was to train the employers and
employees of different organizations in the community so those individuals could
identify what policies needed to be changed in their respective organizations. Council
Member Henney asked for Wright's assessment of the courage in the community that
was needed to discuss the hard topics so the City could discern what areas needed to
be dealt with. Wright thought Park City had bold vision and the residents were
courageous. Her concern was emphasizing a culture of learning in equity and inclusion.
People would make mistakes, but those mistakes could be discussed so people could
move forward and do better next time. Council Member Henney hoped groups that
hadn't been included before would feel part of the conversation. He liked the Social
Equity book club idea as well.

Council Member Worel liked the conversations regarding Social Equity because the
community hadn't had these discussions before. She also liked the cohorts because it
was evident there wasn't a common language being spoken as Social Equity was
discussed. She was grateful the PCCF was flexible and able to support those in need
during the pandemic. Wright stated the pandemic support was possible because 500
people had donated to help others.

Council Member Joyce stated PCCF was on track to take people's intent and develop
new things when the pandemic hit and thwarted progress. He saw good discussion, but
he hadn't seen much action. Wright stated the equity lens with regard to how resources
were deployed was more inclusive because of the priority and the discussions that had
been going on for the past year. Undocumented workers were a priority since they paid
taxes, but weren't eligible for unemployment. She also saw food and rent insecurities
and PCCF was able to help in an expedited way because of the work previously done
regarding equity. Zegarra agreed much had been accomplished and now they were
ready to proceed with actions, including looking at business owners, the County, the
City and the School District.

Council Member Doilney liked Wright's comments and stated the deliverable was only
known after it was delivered. We wouldn't know if you're successful until we look back
and see the difference that was made because of your work.

Council Member Joyce wanted to make sure there was value in the needs identified.
Childcare was an issue and it would be an area that could be looked at and solutions
found to reduce that deficiency. Wright gave an example that the Early Childhood
Alliance had a goal of having every child ready for kindergarten. There was a significant


Park City                                Page 9                          October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
P a g e | 10

gap based on income whether a child started kindergarten at the right level. She was
grateful Holy Cross Ministries and PC Tots were open to help those children.

Mayor Beerman opened the meeting for public input.

Gretchen Lee, Executive Director of Mountain Mediation Center (MMC): eComment: “I
read the City Staff and PCCF social equity reports which will be discussed at
Thursday’s Council meeting and wanted to provide you with a brief update of MMC’s
Community Conversation programming that we’ve recently completed as part of our
special service social equity contract with the City. Our work is not mentioned in the
reports and wanted to assure it was recognized here. MMC received a contract from the
City in December 2020 to facilitate a series of five “Community Conversations” in
support of the City’s social equity goals. MMC was successful in reaching a diverse
group of community members, our goal being to enhance feelings of inclusion and
understanding between individuals and also bring to light a range of unspoken
concerns. Conversation topics included gender identity, tenants’ rights, and the use of
restorative justice practices in our community. Two of our Conversations were
conducted entirely in Spanish. In total, 169 community members attended these events.
Our final Conversation, which was held earlier this week, was attended by 45 individuals
interested in using restorative justice practices to prevent conflict, to resolve conflict,
and repair harm when it occurs throughout the community. A diverse group of
individuals, including area teachers, school administrators, law enforcement, academia,
and community leaders attended. Each MMC Conversation was led by trained staff
members and/or volunteers to ensure adherence to restorative principles and practices.
I will submit our formal grant report next month, but wanted to assure you were aware of
our work and progress. Thank you.”

Mayor Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting and stated PCCF was a
good partner and they had delivered with regard to Social Equity. He agreed that the
community supported the vulnerable population during the pandemic because of the
discussions held during the past year.

VII) NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Continue an Ordinance Amending the Land Management
Code to Allow Nightly Rentals as a Conditional Use in the Lower Rossi Hill
Historic Residential Low-Density Area to a Date Uncertain:
Rebecca Ward, Land Use Planner, stated there would be a work session on December
17th to discuss nightly rentals.

Mayor Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were submitted. Mayor
Beerman closed the public hearing.


Park City                                Page 10                          October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
P a g e | 11

Council Member Worel moved to continue an ordinance amending the Land
Management Code to allow nightly rentals as a conditional use in the Lower Rossi Hill
Historic Residential Low-Density area to a date uncertain. Council Member Henney
seconded the motion.
RESULT: CONTINUED TO A DATE UNCERTAIN
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

2. Consideration to Adopt Resolution 24-2020, a Resolution Adopting a
Temporary Tent and Outdoor Structure Approval Process to Aid Business
Operations During COVID-19:
Jonathan Weidenhamer, Economic Development Manager, indicated the proposed
temporary structures would have temporary regulations. The structures would have to
follow the guidelines from the City, County and State. He displayed alternate language
for the resolution that would allow all year-round businesses with Park City business
licenses to be eligible for temporary outdoor structures.

Mayor Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were submitted. Mayor
Beerman closed the public hearing.

Council Member Gerber asked if the outdoor structures would work for grocery stores
and if the structures could be on public property. Weidenhamer stated this would apply
to structures on the business' property, otherwise they would need to seek permission.
He also noted the structures were required to be temporary or semi-permanent to
qualify under this resolution.

Council Member Worel asked what was different about the regulations currently
required versus the requirements under the temporary structure resolution. Dave
Thacker, Building Official, stated the resolution would streamline the process by
foregoing the administrative CUP process.

Council Member Joyce moved adopt Resolution 24-2020, a resolution adopting a
Temporary Tent and Outdoor Structure Approval Process to aid business operations
during COVID-19 as amended with the redlines as presented. Council Member Henney
seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

3. Consideration to Authorize the City Manager and the Mayor to Enter into Sales
Contracts, Deed Restrictions, and Necessary Escrow and Closing Statements/
Authorizations with Qualified Home Buyers in a Form Approved by the City
Attorney’s Office for 1333 Park Avenue, Park City, Utah:

Park City                               Page 11                         October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
P a g e | 12

Rhoda Stauffer and Jason Glidden, Affordable Housing Department, presented this
item. Glidden stated this was the last unit in Woodside Phase One to be sold. He
updated Council that there were now an online application and an online waitlist for
applicants to check their status. He also noted that between 2004 and 2016, there were
87 affordable housing sales and resales, but in the last three years there had been 127
sales and 26 resales. He thanked staff who helped with the contracts and meeting with
the applicants.
Stauffer stated this property was historic so it would have an easement on it. She noted
the buyer started in an affordable unit and now had the equity to afford an attainable
unit. She felt this was one purpose of affordable housing.

Mayor Beerman opened the meeting for public input. No comments were submitted.
Mayor Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting.

Council Member Joyce congratulated the team, noting it was a long, hard process and it
was nice to come to fruition.

Council Member Doilney moved to authorize the City Manager and the Mayor to enter
into sales contracts, deed restrictions, and necessary escrow and closing
statements/authorizations with qualified home buyers in a form approved by the City
Attorney’s Office for 1333 Park Avenue, Park City, Utah. Council Member Henney
seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

VIII) ADJOURNMENT

IX)     PARK CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING

I)      ROLL CALL

      Attendee Name                                        Status
      Chair Andy Beerman
      Board Member Max Doilney
      Board Member Becca Gerber
      Board Member Tim Henney
                                                           Present via
      Board Member Steve Joyce
                                                           Technology
      Board Member Nann Worel
      Matt Dias, Executive Director
      Margaret Plane, Special Counsel
      Michelle Kellogg, Secretary


Park City                               Page 12                         October 29, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 29, 2020
P a g e | 13

      None                                                Excused


II)  PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON
THE AGENDA)

Chair Beerman opened the meeting for public input on matters not on the agenda. No
comments were submitted. Chair Beerman closed the public input portion of the
meeting.

III) NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Authorize the City Manager and the Mayor to Enter into Sales
Contracts, Deed Restrictions, and Necessary Escrow and Closing
Statements/Authorizations with Qualified Home Buyers in a Form Approved by
the City Attorney’s Office for 1333 Park Avenue, Park City, Utah:

Chair Beerman opened the meeting for public input. No comments were submitted.
Chair Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting.

Board Member Doilney moved to authorize the City Manager and the Mayor to enter
into sales contracts, deed restrictions, and necessary escrow and closing
statements/authorizations with qualified home buyers in a form approved by the City
Attorney’s Office for 1333 Park Avenue, Park City, Utah. Board Member Henney
seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

IV)    ADJOURNMENT

With no further business, the meeting was adjourned.

                                                        ________________________
                                                       Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder




Park City                              Page 13                        October 29, 2020
Habitat for Humanity | Cost of Home Initiative
Launched June 12, 2019




                         Help Habitat make the cost of home something we all can afford.
Summit County Workgroup
• Identify factors that inhibit supply of
  affordable housing
• Facilitate communications to attain
  practical solutions to improve the
  supply of affordable housing
• Draft an Action Plan for the Summit
  County and its’ communities to
  expedite the supply of affordable
  housing
      Help Habitat make the cost of home something we all can afford.
SUMMIT COUNTY AFFORDABLE HOUSING SOLUTIONS PLAN
June 2020
 Policy                                                    Use of Existing Housing
 • straightforward regulations (density, height, setbacks,
   etc.)                                                   Stock
 • processes outlined upfront                 • maintain the existing affordable housing supply
 • applications expedited                     • increase supply with existing units

 Funding Sources                              Advocacy
 •   brick and mortar construction            • Educating community
 •   land purchase
 •   processing fees
 •   impact fee waivers (pay into the fund)


                                               Help Habitat make the cost of home something we all can afford.
Additional Solutions to Consider
• Reduce Standard Designs for Land Development
• Concurrent Review and Approval
• Demolition Tax
• Percentage Contribution or Portion of Open
  Space Purchases

                            Help Habitat make the cost of home something we all can afford.
Preliminary Aerial Study
     Phase 1 - Feasibility
                           Presentation Overview



•   Review Aerial feasibility study
•   Review challenges and opportunities
•   Highlight the public feedback from PC
    Forward
•   Recommendations and Next Steps
•   Council Comments                        Austin, Texas urban gondola simulation
                 Feasibility Study: Purpose and Scope



•   Purpose: To determine preliminary feasibility of installing an Aerial
    Gondola system between major commercial and destination nodes in
    Park City.

•   Scope: Feasible alignments between nodes; General capital and
    operational costs; Not an in-depth analysis on access nor impacts on
    existing transportation systems.
                                  Alignments


•   Segment A: Arts and Culture District
    to Old Town

•   Segment B: Arts and Culture District
    PCMR

•   Segment C: Old Town to Deer Valley
    Snow Park
                  High Level Operations

Hours of Operations
    – Winter: 7am to 10pm
    – Summer: 9am to 10pm
    – Maintenance for 1 week in May and October

Capacity 1,500 people per hour
   – Could be up to 4,000 pph with more cabins

Estimated Annual Operating and Maintenance costs: $3.5M
                                          System Costs
What’s Included                                 What’s Not Included
              Equipment cost                             Utilities
              Site works and buildings                   Easements/Land Acquisition
              Design and permitting                      State and Local Code
              Contingency                                 Permitting
                                                          City Staffing
Estimated:
        Capital costs:   $64M                   Estimated costs: $30-35M
        Operating costs: $3.5M
  Capital Expense Details
                  Land Acquisition Challenges

Property Impacts along corridors
                                Report Takeaways


•   From design and planning aspect, the gondola is
    feasible, but notable challenges and significant
    expense

•   Good connection and transportation link, within Park
    City, but does not address regional connectivity

•   Still a lot of questions around how Aerial compares
    to other Transportation Modes
October 2019 Transportation Strategies Survey
March 2019 Transportation Strategies Survey
        Other Future Transportation Planning Opportunities

•   Park City Forward– Transportation master plan that identifies, goals and a clear vision
    for future of transportation. Action plan for policies, programs and projects


•   Short Range Transit Plan – clear vision for what transit should be in Park City
     • Routes, facilities, funding, service, modes, staying up-to-date plan helps secure
       federal funding.
                            National Average BRT costs

•   Nodal Connection Study– compare and
    contrast capital and operating costs to run
    buses vs. aerial vs. other.
     • Ability to meeting peak demands, per
        rider, per hour costs and determine
        route alignments and how to get
        people to use the system.

     •   Average BRT costs: $10-25M per
         mile




                                                         Source: BRT International, cutr.usf.edu
                                      Next Steps


Staff Recommendations:

    1. Complete upcoming Transportation Plans

    2. Nodal Connections Analysis
        a. Compare bus vs aerial costs

    3. Acquiring property for future transit opportunities

    4. Identify early funding strategies
QUESTONS FOR COUNCIL

         1. Given your involvement and knowledge of
            Aerial and the community goals, is there
            anything new we need to incorporate or
            consider?

         2. Is Council supportive of a Nodal
            Connections Study, that will compare and
            contrast costs, ridership and operations of
            Buses vs Aerial vs. other modes?

         3. Is Council supportive of acquiring transit
            specific land at key destinations?
                              Challenges


Property Boundaries: Legend
Operating Costs
 Temporary Regulations for
Temporary Tents & Structures
 Alternative Language – Exhibit A,
              Section A(6) Eligibility

– ELIGIBILITY. Only restaurants, bars, coffee shops, or
  similar food service‐based All year round businesses
  with a valid Park City Business license are eligible for
  this temporary approval. , except Not available for
  nightly rentals, and convention and sales or other
  temporary licenses. [For those ineligible for this
  temporary process: Existing Administrative CUP
  permit regulations remain in effect and applications
  are available in the Planning Department.]
                                 TENT INQUIRIES FOR COVID
                              Business NAME                                  ADDRESS
1    Montage Geodesic Domes for Dining
2    Versante/Peaks Hotel/Enclose Dining Deck/CUP                    2346 Park Ave
3    Davanzas inquiry heaters to deck                                690 Park Ave
4    Corner Store /structure for outdoor heat lamps                  1325 Lowell Ave
5    Miners Camp 40x 80 tent
6    Deer Valley Sheds (5‐7 ) overnight ski storage at Silver Lake   between Steins Goldner
7    Deer Valley Resort Dining Tent                                  Snowpark Lodge
8    "                                                               SilverLake
9    "                                                               Empire
     Multiple Restaurants in Marriott Plaza                          710‐890 Main
10        Oishi
11        Baan Thai
12        Bodega
13        Mustang
14        Collies
15        Prime Steak House
16   Dining Tent inquiry                                             751 Lower Main
17   Silver Star                                                     1825 Three Kings Dr
18   Atticus Coffee Books                                            738 Main St
19   Red Banjo                                                       322 Main St
20   Café Terigo                                                     424 Main St
21   Purple Sage                                                     434 Main St
Disposition of Property
 Attainable Housing
    October 29, 2020
             BACKGROUND


Council must approve property disposition,
     per PCMC Code Section 2-3-11,
and authorize the City Manager and Mayor
          to complete the sales
                  RECOMMENDATION
Authorize the sale of the final Woodside Park, Phase 1
property to a qualified household:

•   1333 Park Avenue, Woodside Park, Phase 1, unit #1
