PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
445 MARSAC AVENUE
PARK CITY, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 84060

January 5, 2023

The Council of Park City, Summit County, Utah, met in open meeting on January 5,
2023, at 3:00 p.m. in the City Council Chambers.

Council Member Gerber moved to close the meeting to discuss property and advice of
counsel at 3:04 p.m. Council Member Doilney seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Dickey, Doilney, Gerber, and Toly
EXCUSED: Council Member Rubell

CLOSED SESSION
Council Member Rubell arrived at 3:10 p.m.

Council Member Dickey moved to adjourn from Closed Meeting at 3:44 p.m. Council
Member Doilney seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Dickey, Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly

WORK SESSION

Continuation of Discussion of Budgeting For Outcomes (BFO), Economic Update,
and Resource Options:
Jed Briggs and Erik Daenitz, Budget Department, presented this item. Briggs indicated
it was important to get Council feedback in order to implement the new budget strategy.
Daenitz discussed the economic outlook and predicted growth would taper off. He
stated the October 2022 sales tax was received and it was up 10% from last year. He
looked at cellphone data from December and noted the beginning of the month had
more visitors than last year, but over the holidays the visitor volume was down 10%-
30%. He noted the visitor volume did not necessarily equal sales tax. He thought this
was not just a Park City trend, but it was a national trend. Daenitz indicated staff
projected a downturn and that was budgeted for this year.

Briggs stated Budgeting for Outcomes (BFO) would capture Council’s values, goals and
priorities. He stated the scoring would relate to the different City services. He stressed
the scoring wasn’t related to the requests but it was a guide to determine if the services
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
Page|2

were what Council wanted to achieve. He indicated there were different committees that
reviewed all the budget requests. They would score and prioritize each request and it
would be evaluated with all the other requests. He displayed a chart and explained the
scoring process with requests receiving a score of One to Four. He indicated most of
the funding was in Quartiles One and Two. If programs aligned with Council priorities,
the budget requests would score high. Programs that impacted the community would
score high as well. If the program relied on the City, it would score high. Council
Member Toly asked if special service contracts (SSC) fell into this category. Briggs
stated it depended on which SSC was talked about. He indicated if there was a change
in demand for a program, there could be higher scoring. If the City was mandated to
provide a service, a program would score high. The effectiveness of a program was also
taken into consideration during the scoring process. Cost recovery of a program, cost
savings, innovation, or collaboration would receive higher scoring. He asked Council if
they were comfortable with the criteria and the weighting.

Council Member Doilney asserted this was an in-depth process and he thought the way
it was set up made sense. He stated the most weight was on critical priorities and he
expressed concern that this Council had not given clear direction on critical priorities.
Briggs stated the priorities could be defined during the Council Retreat. Council Member
Toly asked if each critical priority was weighted equally, to which Briggs affirmed. Dias
stated the critical priorities could be manipulated by Council at any time. Daenitz stated
the scores did not equal money, but were used to prioritize projects.

Council Member Dickey agreed the critical priorities were unclear and he thought it
would be wise to have a future discussion to agree on priorities. He thought the Change
of Demand scoring of -4 to 4 might be overweighting. He was generally comfortable with
the approach.

Council Member Rubell questioned the mandate to provide the program category since
it was already required. Briggs stated the weight could be increased on that. Council
Member Rubell stated the mandated items should be tagged. Briggs stated a mandated
program could be funded at different levels. Dias indicated staff could test this category
and tag the requests.

Council Member Gerber appreciated the process and knew it was difficult to weigh
projects against each other.

Briggs stated the City had different funding sources and the it would function well even if
there was an economic downturn. Mayor Worel asked if outside requests would be
considered, to which Briggs affirmed.

Briggs displayed a chart of existing funding tools and new funding tools that could be
used and explained each one. Daenitz reviewed the sources of sales tax revenues. He
stated the two taxes that could be used more were Additional Resort Sales Tax


Park City                                 Page 2                           January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
Page|3

(ARCST) and Transient Room Tax (TRT). Those taxes were designated for certain
projects by policy, but those weren’t exhaustive. He stated over the coming weeks,
there would be project requests with funding gaps. Council could choose to increase
debt capacity with these tools. Council Member Dickey asked what bonding capacity
remained for those revenues. Daenitz stated even with a low projected growth rate,
there was room for more debt. He projected a hypothetical bond up to $100 million. His
proposal would be $70 million to give future Councils flexibility. Briggs noted the 65%
debt cap on revenues was self-imposed by previous Councils, but that policy could be
changed as well. Dias summarized there was great opportunity in years past to
purchase big open space parcels. This Council could make big decisions as well, and
the financial tools were available. Council Member Doilney asked what the last big
purchase was that wasn’t for open space, to which Daenitz stated there was a
walkability bond in 2013. There was also a bond to purchase the Bonanza District. Dias
requested Briggs bring back a timeline of the major purchases from previous years.

Presentation by Stuart Adams, Utah Senate President:
Mayor Worel stated the Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT) looked out for Park
City and all cities and towns in Utah. Cameron Diehl, ULCT Executive Director, spoke
about their role in advocating for cities during the legislative session and year round.

Mayor Worel thanked Senator Adams for coming and for his role in having Military
Installation Development Authority (MIDA) present to the Council in December. Senator
Adams stated Park City was a great asset to Utah for its recreational features, the
Sundance Film Festival, and more. He indicated Utah had been the number one state
for economic outlook and one scoring component was the quality of life. He stated there
were two advantages to having a great economy. One was a tax cut, and he stated this
would be the second year the legislature would cut taxes. They would also increase
education funding, including a direct appropriation to teacher salaries. Senator Adams
shared investments were being made to maintain the Olympic facilities. Because of the
great maintenance, Utah could host the Olympics tomorrow if needed. Regarding water,
Adams stated because of the snow in November and December, the state was 170%-
180% of normal snowpack. They were also cloud seeding and they were promoting
subsurface drip irrigation, and he noted they had resources for this.

Council Member Doilney thanked Senator Adams for coming. He stated the City worked
with ULCT as they worked with the legislature. He asked about a Development
Improvement District (DID) and stated the Council was concerned about controlling
development in the City. Senator Adams stated anyone could file the bill, but it took a
majority to pass the bill. City Councils had a responsibility to balance the rights of
property owners with the rights of others in the community. Diehl stated Adams was a
supporter of local control. He explained the history of DID. The Unified Economic
Opportunity Commission (UEOC) discussed the challenges of growth and the quality of
life. Then they formed committees to tackle the challenges. They looked at public
infrastructure districts (PID). This would allow a city/county to enter into an agreement


Park City                                 Page 3                           January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
Page|4

with a developer to bond for a district and it would be paid back through property taxes
of those within the district. There was discussion on having districts where there would
be conditions where it could be paid back, but not with property taxes, and cities and
counties were not required to pass it. This was still being developed and there were
changes still being made. Council Member Doilney explained his concern with these
districts.

Senator Adams discussed the challenge of affordable housing and stated he was
concerned the state was losing its middle class. He was working to bring back a
financing cap for first time home buyers. He noted this topic would be a top priority
during this legislative session. He stated transparency was necessary since over 1,000
bills were proposed each year and indicated it was important to stay involved so the
best outcomes would be achieved.

Diehl encouraged the City officials to engage in the legislative process. He knew Park
City’s challenges were unique in the state, and he wanted to be a voice for the City
during the legislative session.

REGULAR MEETING

I.   ROLL CALL

      Attendee Name                                          Status
      Mayor Nann Worel
      Council Member Ryan Dickey
      Council Member Max Doilney
      Council Member Becca Gerber
      Council Member Jeremy Rubell                           Present
      Council Member Tana Toly
      Matt Dias, City Manager
      Margaret Plane, City Attorney
      Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder
      None                                                   Absent

OLD BUSINESS

1. Review Thaynes Canyon Drive/Hotel Park City Parking Study:
Mayor Worel recommended postponing this item. The Council members agreed.

Council Member Dickey moved to continue the review of Thaynes Canyon Drive/Hotel
Park City Parking Study to a date uncertain. Council Member Doilney seconded the
motion.



 Park City                               Page 4                           January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
Page|5

RESULT: CONTINUED TO A DATE UNCERTAIN
AYES: Council Members Dickey, Doilney, Gerber, and Toly
ABSTAIN: Council Member Rubell

II.   APPOINTMENTS

1. Appointment of a Mayor Pro Tem and Alternate for Calendar Year 2023:
Mayor Worel recommended Council Member Gerber as Mayor Pro Tem and Council
Member Toly as Alternate Mayor Pro Tem.

Council Member Doilney moved to appoint Council Member Gerber as Mayor Pro Tem
and Council Member Toly as Alternate Mayor Pro Tem for 2023. Council Member
Gerber seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Dickey, Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly

 III. COMMUNICATIONS AND DISCLOSURES FROM COUNCIL AND STAFF

Council Questions and Comments:
Council Member Gerber thanked staff who worked to clear snow and worked over the
holidays to keep the City safe and businesses running.

Council Member Toly indicated she attended the Lodging Association meeting and
announced Sundance would be in person in Park City, although some venues would be
smaller. She also stated Transit Week was January 8-14, and the Legislative Session
would begin at the end of the month.

Council Member Rubell attended the Fire District Board Meeting and noted calls were
up 10%. He noted service levels were well maintained.

Mayor Worel stated she and the Council members would be on City buses during
Transit Week distributing prizes. She echoed thanks to staff for keeping roads clear.
She also expressed sympathy for the passing of a Park City ski patroller, Christian
Helger, and also Park City resident Ken Block.

Staff Communications Reports:

1. Legacy Mine Soil Roundtable:

2. 2023 Courchevel, France - Sister City Update:




 Park City                               Page 5                           January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
Page|6

IV. PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON THE
AGENDA)

Mayor Worel opened the meeting for any who wished to speak or submit comments on
items not on the agenda.

Gene DeSantis stated pickleball court times were so limited compared to tennis and
when he approached Ken Fisher, he was told it was because tennis generated more
revenue. He advocated for more pickleball reservation time at reasonable times during
the day.

William Beckman played pickleball and seconded the previous speaker’s comments.

Mell Gallahue was on the Kimball Art Center Board. She asked for the Council’s support
to develop the arts and culture district in the Bonanza Park area.

Tim LePage endorsed the speakers on pickleball. He quoted Council Member Doilney’s
email that noted the Council approved of the current tennis and pickleball schedule.
LePage asked Council to reconsider this since there were thousands of people wanting
to play pickleball. He stated the bubble had dual purpose courts. He asked for equal
opportunity to book in the bubble at any time.

Bill Leon supported DeSantis’ statement. He grew up playing tennis and stated other
communities allowed tennis and pickleball to be played side by side.

Elliot Ledner stated he played pickleball from 6:00 a.m.-8:00 a.m. and then nobody was
on the courts until 9:15 a.m. He asked a tennis player if he minded playing tennis next
to pickleball and the player said no.

Christine LaPointe wanted to find a way to play together.

Dory Ugall stated she liked pickleball. She thought the City was not getting the revenue
they should from pickleball. Players were going to Sandy and Orem to play. The early
and late hours did not work for the majority of people. She indicated the highest usage
was 9:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m. She asked that pickleball be played in the bubble during prime
hours.

Cal Regan supported the comments from the other speakers regarding pickleball. He
looked to the elected officials to solve the problem. He stated the pickleball group would
be voting in November.

Fred DeSantis repeated what other players were saying. He noted Ken Fisher stated
the MARC would always be a tennis-first facility. He didn’t understand that since
pickleball was such a fast-growing activity. He received last minute emails for court


Park City                                 Page 6                           January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
Page|7

availability which meant all three courts were empty. These emails were a sign there
was an error in the way time was being allocated.

Tia Cottey eComment: “I reside at 2749 Estates Drive, Park City, Utah 84060. My
spouse and I purchased our residence in March, 2022 and have enjoyed our experience
in Park City during the summer months. During the winter months, however, I was
extremely disappointed to discover the inequitable allocation of court time in the MARC
bubble indoor facilities with respect to pickleball players. The MARC’s current policies
of allocating time to pickleball players in the MARC bubble displace the entire pickleball
user group in favor of the tennis user group. There are currently 4 permanent indoor
tennis court at the MARC where pickleball players are not ever allowed and for which
tennis players have exclusive access. There are 3 additional tennis courts in the MARC
bubble which can be converted to 6 pickleball courts; however, pickleball players are
only allowed to book courts in the bubble from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. Monday through Friday;
Friday nights from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. and Saturday and Sundays from 5 to 9 p.m. Also,
there is open play allowed in the bubble for pickleball Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7
to 10 p.m. The entire prime time for play inside the bubble at the MARC (from 8 A.M. to
7 p.m.) is allocated exclusively to tennis players and pickleball players have no ability to
book court time during prime time. Because the MARC is a public facility whose
mission statement states that it is “Enriching the lives of our community through
exceptional people, programs and facilities,” the MARC should be taking steps to
ensure that no user group dominates specific time blocks at the MARC to the detriment
of another use group. Unfortunately, the current MARC policies for time allocation in
the bubble to pickleball is in fact allowing the tennis user groups to dominate the prime
time reservation blocks to the detriment of the pickleball user group, which is relegated
to non-prime, unfavorable time blocks. The MARC’s goal, as a public facility serving the
entire Park City community, should be to balance the needs of the tennis and pickleball
user groups to ensure that both user groups have fair and equal access to prime and
non-prime court time in the MARC bubble. This ensures that the taxpayers supporting
the MARC, whether they are tennis players or pickleball players, have fair and balanced
access to the City facilities for their use and enjoyment. The MARC, as a public facility,
should implement policies that provide the greatest benefit for the entire community and
fair and balanced access for all user groups. The current MARC policies for allocating
time in the bubble are not allowing the maximum opportunities for participation by the
pickleball user group. The MARC is a public facility which by its own mission statement
is a resource for use by the entire community; however, the pickleball user group is not
receiving a similar ratio of prime and non-prime bubble court time as the tennis user
group under the current MARC policies. On a personal note, I am a long-time tennis
player, having played tennis for 30 years and I played college tennis for Duke from 1978
to 1982. I took pickleball up 5 years ago due to a serous shoulder injury that required
me to stop playing tennis. As both a tennis and pickleball player, I do not believe there
is any rational basis for the inequitable allocation of court time in the bubble as between
tennis (which has exclusive rights to book time during prime-time blocks) and pickleball
(relegated to non-prime time only). I would strongly recommend to the City Council that


Park City                                 Page 7                            January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
Page|8

they consider the MARC’s stated mission statement and reverse the current policies
which are allowing the tennis user group to dominate the bubble reservation system to
the detriment of the pickleball user group. The current policies for the MARC bubble
court time cannot be justified for a public facility which should be focused on providing
the greatest benefit for the entire community, not favoring a single taxpaying user group
over another taxpaying user group.”

Amelia Walden eComment: “As a 13-year resident of Park City and current Main Street
employee, I am appalled at the lack of consideration the city has for its residents and
employees who are the backbone of the city’s tourism industry. I am specifically
frustrated with the issues of parking availability and enforcement. Enforcers seem to
disproportionately target lots where employees park as opposed to those where
tourists/visitors are parking, and there is no free parking area for nighttime Main Street
employees unless they intend to walk in the dark (which I personally am not comfortable
with due to prior experiences walking to and from the Sandridge Lots). While I
understand that the city has permits and shuttles available, it seems completely
unnecessary to force valued employees to “jump through hoops” just to park where they
work. I personally find myself feeling less and less valued by the city every day in
comparison with the tourists and second-home owners, which contributes greatly to my
desire to live and work somewhere else.”

Mayor Worel closed the public input portion of the meeting.

V.   CONSIDERATION OF MINUTES

1. Consideration to Approve the City Council Meeting Minutes from December 8
and 15, 2022:

Council Member Gerber moved to approve the City Council meeting minutes from
December 8 and 15, 2022. Council Member Toly seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Dickey, Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly

VI. CONSENT AGENDA

1. Request to Approve Special Event Temporary Alcoholic Beverage Licenses
during the 2023 Sundance Film Festival:

2. Request to Approve Type 2 Convention Sales Licenses for Operation during
the 2023 Sundance Film Festival:

Council Member Rubell moved to approve the Consent Agenda. Council Member
Gerber seconded the motion.

Park City                                 Page 8                           January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
Page|9

RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Dickey, Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly

VII. OLD BUSINESS

1. Review Thaynes Canyon Drive/Hotel Park City Parking Study:
This item was discussed at the beginning of the regular meeting.

2. Consideration to Approve the Extension of the Park Silly Sunday Market
(PSSM) City Service Agreement for One Year:
Jenny Diersen, Special Event Manager, and Kate McChesney, PSSM Executive
Director, presented this item. Diersen requested a one-year extension for PSSM
for the upcoming season. They would return in the spring to discuss a long-term
contract. She noted the event had been running for 16 years. Council asked for
community feedback and she displayed the results. Some in the community
opposed the market and some wanted the market to stay. Diersen reviewed the
proposal, which included holding the event 11 Sundays, located on Lower Main
and eliminating 5th Street, open hours 10:00 a.m.- 5:00 p.m., no amplified noise
until noon and then 75 decibels, eliminating all importers, continuing the farmers
market, allowing all Wasatch Back vendors into the market, having additional
shuttles on the two busiest days, having an 80% food diversion rate, and having
the City service fee waiver of 61,311. McChesney related an experience of a
vendor that had expanded from PSSM to a brick-and-mortar store and thought this
was a reason to continue the market.

Council Member Rubell asked for the net change in the previous contract versus
the proposed contract. Diersen reviewed the analysis section of the staff report and
noted changing the day had other challenges so Sunday was proposed, there were
now 11 days instead of 14 days, the area was reduced, noise reduction, and
vendor reduction. McChesney explained Wasatch Back vendors could not
currently fill all the booths, and she hoped to work on filling all booths with Wasatch
Back vendors as she looked to 2024.

Diersen reviewed the transportation changes. Council Member Rubell asked if the
bike valet was a change. McChesney stated last year there were problems, but
they had been resolved and it would be offered this year. Diersen noted the City
fees were reduced because there were fewer Sundays. Council Member Rubell
asked if this was cost neutral for the City, to which Diersen affirmed. Council
Member Toly asked why they took out September 24th instead of another date.
Diersen stated having the market dates together in blocks helped them.

Mayor Worel opened the public hearing.

Park City                                  Page 9                           January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
P a g e | 10

Diersen read the following comment from Sara Werbelow: “I love my community I have
lived in and around Park City since 1998. I have lived in two counties and been actively
selling real estate working with many community nonprofits and raising a family during
my time in our special community. No matter where I have lived weekly I have had a
draw be it with my kids with friends with clients with neighbors to go up and check out
the silly market. It’s always a different experience. You never know who you’re going to
see or who you might meet there’s always laughs and I always walk home with newly
acquired purchases from the silly market and from Main Street. I’m a frequent shopper
on Main Street. I love the tenant mix. The silly market is not a competitor to the retailers
on Main. In my opinion the silly market is a gathering place and a base camp place to
spring board and adventure around the town. I want to thank the organizers of the silly
market, all of their volunteers and all of the many people‘s live they have affected over
their long stay on Main Street. My business is also a sponsor of the silly market. We
choose to sponsor the silly market because it’s something we are proud of and want to
introduce our clients to. It’s a way to become an instant local. Kudos to you silly market
team for all the great adventures and impeccable organization with your zero waste
policy, Bike valet, kids activities, , fresh offerings at the farmers market, live
entertainment, which is so special these days, to name a few… City Council I am
hopeful there will be ways to mitigate any community concerns, so that we can see this
gem of a gathering place and major community contributor to remain in what feels like
its home on our historic Main Street as the glorious backdrop. The two go hand-in-hand
together showcasing our special town.”

Mitch Bedke stated he was president of the Park City Artists Association and sales from
PSSM made up 80% of their revenues. They would like to keep PSSM on Main Street
to sell their wares in their hometown.

William Young listened the previous discussion on this last month where PSSM had
proposed 12 dates then, and he felt this wasn’t much of a compromise. He thought
residents lost Main Street every weekend and he suggested PSSM look at other
locations. This was a big burden for the residents.

Dana Williams reviewed City officials lamented the town was losing its funk when PSSM
began. He felt PSSM was an event that had funk. He thought downtown should be
noisy and vibrant. He thought 75 decibels was low. The group proved that regardless of
socio-economic background, people were welcome. He supported this event and he
didn’t think they should give up any time.

Ryann Satz, Mustang Restaurant, stated the Lower Main businesses had concern with
theft from the crowds. She thought it would be hard to market Lower Main only on some
Sundays because of the market. Diners on her patio had to listen to the market being
broken down, which deteriorated the experience. She requested they find another
location.



Park City                                 Page 10                            January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
P a g e | 11

Karen Kendall wrote a letter about the PSSM benefit for artists. She agreed with Dana
Williams that the market was unique. She thought it should be okay to come to Main
Street even if you didn’t spend money.

Anna Moore reviewed the public comments from the community and the opinion of the
Historic Park City Alliance (HPCA) and she thought the issue was inconvenience versus
people’s livelihoods. She stated she struggled to live here, but PSSM allowed her to sell
enough merchandise to live here. Much of the market’s charm was the location. She
thought the businesses would not have to close as a result of having the market on
Main Street. She thought homeowners in downtown signed up for the experience. She
noted she was on the City’s Arts and Culture pillar group and she stated it was hard to
define arts and culture in the changing community.

Ryann Satz stated her business was only open in the summer and she had a limited
time to make her revenue.

Jocelyn Scudder, Director of Park City Summit County Arts Council, congratulated
McChesney for the impact they had on the community. The market helped 150 vendors
become business owners in the community. She felt PSSM was needed to help artists
grow and thrive. This was an important event for the community. She asked Council to
approve the one-year extension. She noted PSSM worked hard to accommodate the
feedback they received.

Sandy Yelhop knew there was feedback regarding event fatigue, but people missed the
ski bums and funky feel. She supported the market and the sense of community from
having PSSM. She thought there was a ripple effect and businesses benefited at other
times of the year.

Rachal Bono, Collie’s BBQ, stated they never had an issue of theft. They had many
return customers because they had first come during PSSM.

Chris Fewell, a vendor at PSSM, stated his business wouldn’t be as big as it was today
without the market. He thought it was well run and efficient, and he supported it. He
thought PSSM brought a different shopping experience for those visiting the City.

John Greenfield stated he was a former PSSM vendor and it was a great opportunity to
start a local business. He thought opportunities for youth and artists would be taken
away if this event went away.

Peter Marth heard negative comments from business owners in town. He thought the
market could try some different locations, such as the center of Main Street and Bob
Wells Plaza. He felt creativity could be used to find solutions.




Park City                               Page 11                           January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
P a g e | 12

Kaleb Harvey supported PSSM and stated he was able to take his business fulltime as
a result of being a vendor. He thought it would be a bad move to relocate the event.

Stephanie Padilla with Savannah Padilla stated her daughter started her soap business
at age six. She praised PSSM for all that they learned from starting this business. She
respected the concerns from restaurant owners. She supported the PSSM contract
extension.

Joyce Baron eComment: “The Silly Market has been bringing people together for years.
Please extend the contract for one year while exploring ways to have a long-term
agreement. The market is an asset to Park City!”

Mayor Worel closed the public hearing.

Mayor Worel asked if the fee waiver was part of the $200,000 waiver cap. Diersen
stated no because it was a contracted event. Council Member Toly stated there were
many businesses that catered to the everyday crowd, not to the rich. These businesses
compared Saturday revenue to Sunday revenue and compared the August revenue
when PSSM was not there. Not everyone living in Old Town liked PSSM, whether they
were new or longtime residents. She did not support the contract.

Council Member Gerber stated there were many events in town and it could feel
overwhelming. She knew this was an event that was equitable. She supported a one-
year extension and requested looking at other locations for the future.

Council Member Rubell asked if some of the July dates could be moved to May.
McChesney stated per Code she couldn’t move dates to May. If any July dates were
removed, it would be financially difficult. She welcomed the discussion for 2024. Council
Member Rubell noted Council had extended contracts to other organizations.

Council Member Dickey stated this was a hard decision. Based on the feedback he
didn’t support the event. He also thought there would be a decision in the next year on
reprogramming or no programming of Main Street. He wanted to protect a local
experience and PSSM was the bullseye of event fatigue. He would support it if there
weren’t events in July and August.

Council Member Doilney supported a one-year extension because of COVID and
looked forward to another conversation in the spring. He knew there was event fatigue,
but he thought time was needed to figure this out.

Council Member Rubell asked if PSSM could cancel the July 30th event and come on
September 24th instead, to which McChesney affirmed. Council Member Rubell thought
this was a good compromise and he wanted a big discussion in the spring.



Park City                                Page 12                          January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
P a g e | 13

Diersen asked for clarification on the working group. Council Member Dickey stated it
wasn’t clear on what they were doing. Council Member Toly thought it should be
reimagined. Diersen explained the working group was originally created to address
PSSM issues. She hoped parties could convene during the week to address issues.
Council agreed to continue the working group.

Council Member Gerber moved to approve the extension of the Park Silly Sunday
Market City Service Agreement for one year with the amendment of moving the July
30th event to September 24th and continuing the working group. Council Member
Doilney seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, and Rubell
NAYS: Council Members Dickey and Toly

VIII. NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Approve Ordinance 2023-01, an Ordinance Approving the
2023 Regular Meeting Schedule for City Council:
Mayor Worel opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Mayor Worel closed
the public hearing.

Council Member Gerber moved to approve Ordinance 2023-01, an ordinance approving
the 2023 Regular Meeting Schedule for City Council. Council Member Rubell seconded
the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Dickey, Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly

2. Discuss 2023 Legislative Policy Platform:
Matt Dias, City Manager, indicated there was a 45-day legislative session in Utah and
an incredible amount of work was done in a short period of time. Sometimes decisions
needed to be made between Council meetings, so this policy stated staff would support
bills that aligned with City priorities. This document provided transparency so the
community knew staff had authorization to push certain platforms. It was indicated
Mayor Worel, and Council Members Doilney and Toly would be the liaisons with the
legislature.

Mayor Worel opened the meeting for public input. No comments were given. Mayor
Worel closed the public input.

IX. ADJOURNMENT

PARK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY MEETING

Park City                               Page 13                          January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
P a g e | 14

I.   ROLL CALL

      Attendee Name                                           Status
      Chair Nann Mayor Worel
      Board Member Ryan Dickey
      Board Member Max Doilney
      Board Member Becca Gerber
      Board Member Jeremy Rubell                              Present
      Board Member Tana Toly
      Matt Dias, Executive Director
      Margaret Plane, City Attorney
      Michelle Kellogg, Secretary
      None                                                    Excused

II. PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON THE
AGENDA)

Chair Worel opened the meeting for any who wished to speak or submit comments on
items not on the agenda. No comments were given. Chair Worel closed the public input
portion of the meeting.

III. NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Approve Resolution HA 01-2023, a Resolution Establishing a
Regular Meeting Date, Time, and Location for 2023 Meetings and Appointing
Officers of the Board of Directors of the Housing Authority of Park City, Utah:
Chair Worel opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Chair Worel closed
the public hearing.

Board Member Gerber moved to approve Resolution HA 01-2023, a resolution
establishing a regular meeting date, time, and location for 2023 meetings and
appointing officers of the Board of Directors of the Housing Authority of Park City, Utah.
Board Member Toly seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Board Members Dickey, Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly

IV. ADJOURNMENT

     PARK CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING

I.   ROLL CALL

      Attendee Name                                           Status

 Park City                               Page 14                           January 5, 2023
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2023
P a g e | 15

     Chair Nann Mayor Worel
     Board Member Ryan Dickey
     Board Member Max Doilney
     Board Member Becca Gerber
     Board Member Jeremy Rubell                             Present
     Board Member Tana Toly
     Matt Dias, Executive Director
     Margaret Plane, City Attorney
     Michelle Kellogg, Secretary
     None                                                   Excused

II. PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON THE
AGENDA)

Chair Worel opened the meeting for any who wished to speak or submit comments on
items not on the agenda. No comments were given. Chair Worel closed the public input
portion of the meeting.

III. NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Approve Resolution RDA 01-2023, a Resolution Establishing a
Regular Meeting Date, Time, and Location for 2023 Meetings and Appointing
Officers of the Board of Directors of the Redevelopment Agency of Park City,
Utah:
Chair Worel opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Chair Worel closed
the public hearing.

Board Member Doilney moved to approve Resolution RDA 01-2023, a resolution
establishing a regular meeting date, time, and location for 2023 meetings and
appointing officers of the Board of Directors of the Redevelopment Agency of Park City,
Utah. Board Member Gerber seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Board Members Dickey, Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly

IV. ADJOURNMENT

With no further business, the meeting was adjourned.

                                                        _________________________
                                                        Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder




Park City                               Page 15                          January 5, 2023
PARK SILLY SUNDAY MARKET
   ONE YEAR CONTRACT EXTENSION
                  TIMELINE & HISTORY
                                                     September 14, 2017:
                                                     The current contract was negotiated and approved.

                                                     2018: First Year of Contract
                                                     2019: Second Year of Contract

                                                     January 9, 2020:
                                                     Council approved a two-year extension (2021 and 2022).

                                                     April 2020: Third Year of Contract (canceled Covid-19)
                                                     2021: Fourth Year of Contract

                                                     April 28, 2022:
                                                     PSSM asked to begin long term contract discussions and
                                                     outreach commenced as directed
A one-year contract extension request is being
                                                     2022: Fifth Year of Contract
considered. PSSM has not received an extension due
to canceled market during Covid-19.
     FEEDBACK & OUTREACH
                                                                           38% PC
Extensive outreach:                                                        30% Summit Co
- Various ways                                    Split     2,072          169 Main Street
                                                Feedback     Survey
- Local & Social Media                                      Responses
                                                                           Employee / Business
- Postcard Mailing                                                         98 HPCA Survey
- Open House
- Community Partners                                                       66%
                                                                          Support or
                                                                        Increase Days
On a scale of 1 to 100 (All I PC)
Event on Sunday 66 I 60
Location on Main Street 74 I 66
Importance of Continuing 77 I 67               56%            49%           46% Shopping
                                               Identified     Gather w/     37% Entertainment
              •   Farmers Market                areas of      Friends &     26% Dining
              •   Vendors                     improvement   Support PSSM
              •   Parking Options & Pricing
PSSM Proposal
     TERM: One Year, Spring for Long-Term Next Steps
     DAYS / DAY OF WEEK: 11 Sundays
     LOCATION: Lower Main, Eliminate 5th Street
     TIME: Status Quo – 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., breakdown complete by 7
     p.m.
     NOISE: No amplified sound until noon. From noon to 5 pm., up to
     75 decibels
     VENDOR MIX: Eliminate Importers, continue Farmers Market,
     allow all Wasatch back into the market, Status Quo for food and
     jewelers, and free booth spaces– a value of $25,000.
     TRANSPORTATION: Additional shuttles on 2 busiest days,
     guaranteed bike valet, continued messaging. Manage pedestrians
     at Heber/Main.
     SUSTAINABILITY: 80% diversion rate or better – costs PSSM
     $43,000
     WORKING GROUP: Discuss effectiveness. PSSM willing to
     continue. Does this need tweaks as part of a one-year agreement?
     FEES & COSTS: Waive City Service Fees ($61,311). PSSM will
     provide pedestrian and bollard management estimated $24,600.
QUESTIONS & DISCUSSION
Hold a public hearing and consider an extension of the Park Silly Sunday
Market City Service Agreement for one year. Council may:
1. Approve
2. Continue
3. Modify
4. Deny

We will return in the spring for a separate Work Session regarding a future
market for 2024 and beyond.
Thayne’s Canyon / Hotel Park City


Parking Study
Project Overview
Review, discuss and take public input associated with the Thaynes
Canyon/Hotel Park City Study.

Requesting consideration of a long-term parking strategy in the area
and specifically three options presented in the Staff report.

Introductions/Presentation
   • Jeremiah Simpson- Kimley-Horn will present findings and answer questions.
   • John Robertson- City Engineer/Neighborhoods First
   • Alex Roy- Transportation Planning/Walkability Component
   • Ryan Overton and Ricky Tischman- Hotel Park City Representatives
        1. Existing Site Conditions, Methodology, Data
           Gathering

        2. Projected Parking Demand
Topic
        3. Parking & TDM Alternatives

        4. Supply Options
Existing Site Conditions
                             Parking Zone       Summer Supply    Winter Supply
                       A (Valet)                            18              18
                       A (Non-Valet)                        93              87
                       B1                                   20              20
                       B2                                   22              22
                       B3                                   24              24
                       B4                                   14              14
                       Total Onsite                        191             185
                       Offsite nearby                       10              10
                       Offsite commercial                   30               0
                       Total Onsite + Offsite              231             195


                      • Offsite employee parking via
                        informal agreement but not secured
                        long-term
                      • On-street parking along Thayne’s
                        Canyon Drive is neither permitted
                        or prohibited under the existing
                        master planned development
                      • Area G is not paved / maintained for
                        parking (req. 15-3-3)
                         Parking Occupancy Surveys (August 2022)
     Date:                                   Wednesday, August 17, 2022                                 Date:                                    Friday, August 26, 2022
    Weather:                                    Sunny / Clear Skies                                    Weather:                                     Sunny / Clear Skies

                                                          Parking Demand                                                                                   Parking Demand
  Parking Zone          Supply                                                                        Parking Zone        Supply
                                      3PM-4PM         4PM-5PM       5PM-6PM             6PM-7PM                                         3PM-4PM        4PM-5PM       5PM-6PM   6PM-7PM
     A (Valet)            18             7               4             4                   12           A (Valet)           18              5              6             6        13
  A (Non-Valet)           93             72              80            84                  86        A (Non-Valet)          93             80             91            77        89
        B1                20             17              16            17                  19              B1               20             20             20            18        20
        B2                22             23              23            24                  29              B2               22             27             28            26        30
        B3                24             22              22            22                  23              B3               24             22             22            23        23
        B4                14             14              14            14                  15              B4                14            13             13            11        15
         C                0              0               0             0                   2                C                0              0              1             1         1
         D                0              2               1             4                   3                D                0              2              1             5         2
         E                0              0               0             0                   0                E                0              0              0             0         0
         F                0              0               0             0                   0                F                0              0              0             0         0
         G                0              0               0             0                   0                G                0              1              1             1         2
         H                0              0               0             0                   0                H                0              1              1             0         1
       Total             191            157             160           169                 189             Total             191           171            184           168       196

Notes:                                                                                              Notes:
1.    Guest said parking has been much better since June meeting, mentioned employees parking off   1.    Parked vehicle in area C from 5 PM to 7 PM was a
      site                                                                                                motorcycle
1.    Lot B4 from 6PM-7PM, one of the counted vehicles was illegally parked in front of dumpster


Parking surveys were collected on: Wednesday, August 17, Saturday, August 20, Friday August 26
An additional follow-up site visit was completed in October 2022 to evaluate sidewalks and shared-use path options
                                Projected Parking Demand
                                                   • Utilized Urban Land Institute’s Shared Parking
                                                     Model (3rd Edition, 2020) with input from hotel
                                                     and event staff on driving ratio, group guests,
                                                     event operations, etc.




• Parking supply is more constrained in winter,
  though there is a higher percentage of single-
  occupancy vehicle usage in summer
• Overall projected peak demand is summer
  months w/ golf event
    Projected Parking Demand
Projected Peak Parking Demand by Hour – Weekends (Summer)
 Projected Parking Demand
Projected Parking Demand by Hour – Weekdays (Winter)
Parking Management Alternatives

• Stripe parallel parking stalls in lot B2
• Reclaim parking garage capacity
     • Relocate stored equipment
     • Dynamically adjust valet capacity
     • Consider parking garage dynamic signage
• Consider options to expand pick-up / drop-off
  zones
TDM Alternatives
Year-round TDM Strategies:
    Employee commuter benefit program
    Bonus incentives for carpool or transit use / Platform to “gamify” employee commute choices
    Advertise “Ride On” carpool and transit platform (free through PCMC and the Park City Chamber of Commerce)
    Promote the use of the Ecker Hill Park & Ride
    Increased promotion of airport shuttle options and ski resort shuttles on the Hotel, Golf Club, and Nordic Center website
    Getting There” and “Getting Around Town” webpages, linked to Hotel bookings and Golf Club/Nordic Center events
    Provide a UTA van share to employees


Seasonal TDM Strategies:
    Covered bike parking for visitors in convenient areas (summer season)
    Hourly + daily bike rental program for visitors (summer season)
    Continuation of golf benefits (free range balls) for carpool and transit users
    Carpool requirements for golfers during peak times
    Reservation system for peak winter times/events
    Rideshare (Uber, Lyft) promos for golf tournaments


On-Going:
• Remain engaged with City officials and the local community regarding a greater need for workforce housing in and around Park City develops
Supply Expansion
Alternatives
       Parking Expansion Options & Cost Estimates
                                                                                Net
                                                                               Added
                                                                 Alternative   Spaces     Estimated Cost                              Notes
                                                                                           $1,050,000 -
                                                                     1A         30+        $1,650,000+        $35,000-$55,000/space
                                                                     1B         88      refer to contractor
                                                                                                              Pull-in from west; street narrowed from 26’ to 24’;
                                                                                                              $7,500 - $12,000/stall + $4.75 - $5.50/shared use
                                                                                                              path sq. ft.; 45-degree stalls; 520 ft. lot shared use
                                                                                            $319,784 -        path + 198 ft. additional shared use path to Site; 8
                                                                 2 Option 1     39           $499,592         ft. shared use path width
                                                                 2 Option 2     18      $175,926 -$263,388    “ “; Parallel stalls; 12 ft. shared use path width
                                                                                            $289,784 -
                                                                 2 Option 3     35           $451,592         “   “; One row 45 degrees; 13.5 ft. aisle
                                                                                            $537,284 -
                                                                 2 Option 4     68           $847,592         “ “; Two rows 45 degrees; 15.5 ft. aisle
                                                                                            $194,165 -        “ “; One row retaining trees; 13.5 ft. aisle; 10 ft.
                                                                 2 Option 5     22           $297,770         additional shared use path width of 198 ft.
                                                                                            $105,000 -        $7,500 - $12,000/stall; 90-degree stalls; 18’ X 9’
                                                                     3          14           $168,000         stall; 2 rows




*Alternatives are preliminary and require additional survey, engineering and planning approvals.
*Option 2 parallel parking is located within the existing Thaynes Canyon Drive right of way
                                            Parking Capacity Summary

                                                                                                    Net Total Spaces
    Parking Expansion Alternatives Net Total Spaces Summary
                                Summer (includes offsite)                  Summer (excludes offsite)                Winter (includes offsite)              Winter (excludes offsite)

                    Net           Including            Excluding         Including              Excluding        Including           Excluding           Including         Excluding
                   Added          Reclaimed            Reclaimed         Reclaimed              Reclaimed        Reclaimed           Reclaimed           Reclaimed         Reclaimed
 Alternative       Spaces          Spaces               Spaces            Spaces                 Spaces           Spaces              Spaces              Spaces            Spaces

         1A          30+              284+                261+               254+                 221+              238+                225+                228+              215+

         1B           88              342                  319               302                   279               306                 283                 296              273

  2 Option 1          39              293                  270               253                   230               257                 234                 247              224

  2 Option 2          18              272                  249               232                   209               236                 213                 226              203

  2 Option 3          35              289                  266               249                   226               253                 230                 243              220

  2 Option 4          68              322                  299               282                   259               286                 263                 276              253

  2 Option 5          22              276                  253               236                   213               240                 217                 230              207

         3            14              268                  245               228                   205               232                 209                 222              199

Notes:

Green counts meet or exceed projected parking demand (275 spaces in summer and 199 spaces in winter). Red counts do not meet projected demand for the associated season.

Offsite parking = 40 spaces in summer and 10 spaces in winter.

Reclaimed spaces = 23 stalls identified onsite in Parking Management Recommendations section.
Alternative 2 (Thayne’s Canyon) – Option 1
Alternative 2 (Thayne’s Canyon) – Option 2
Alternative 2 (Thayne’s Canyon) – Option 3
Alternative 2 (Thayne’s Canyon) – Option 4
Alternative 2 (Thayne’s Canyon) – Option 5
Neighborhood Walkability Improvements

                               Overview

                               Planning

                               Funding
                    • Forego any parking improvements and require parking management
                      and TDM strategies

For Consideration
                    • Explore a public-private partnership with Hotel Park City
Next Steps
                    • Initiate a public process and design surface parking and walkability
                      improvements along Thaynes Canyon Drive.
Good afternoon and thank you for the opportunity to offer public comments today. I will make a brief
presentation in person on January 5, but I wanted to share my complete remarks in advance and ask
that they be included in the record.

My name is Gene DeSantis, and I live at 988 W. Abigail Drive, at the Retreat. It is just off Richardson
Flats, and about 1 mile outside the Park City limits. I hope the Council will focus on the substance of my
remarks rather than my address. Admittedly, I don’t live in Park City. But my wife Stephanie and I are
regular patrons of the PC MARC. We shop in Park City stores, dine in Park City restaurants, ski at Park
City resorts, contribute to Park City sales tax revenue, and feel we are very much a part of the Park City
Community.

We retired here the winter of 2014-15. Almost immediately, my brother and I purchased tennis
membership at the MARC. I was 60, my brother Franco was 56, and we played singles at least 4 days a
week.

But age and wear and tear took a toll. Like many people our age, the demands on the joints playing
tennis led to a variety of chronic injuries and as a result Franco and I transitioned from tennis to
pickleball. This is very common among pickleball players: quite a few of us were tennis players (some
still are), but as we aged and our bodies wore down, we found pickleball was kinder and more benign on
our joints.

When my brother and I played tennis, we had no difficulty booking a court. Sometimes we played in the
main building, other times in the bubble, but we could book a court any hour of any day that the MARC
was open. We were never shut out.

Then we switched to pickleball, and it was quite a different story.

1.      Booking a tennis court vs a pickleball court

The MARC is open from 6 AM to 10PM Monday-Friday, and from 7 AM to 9 PM Saturday / Sunday.
There are 7 heated and covered indoor courts (4 in the main building, 3 in the bubble.) Multiply the
hours the MARC is open by 7 courts and there are a total of 756 court hours available.

Tennis players can still book a court any hour of any day that the MARC is open, but pickleball players
have extremely limited options: 6-8 AM Monday through Friday, 7-10 PM Friday, and 5-9 PM Saturday
and Sunday. That’s it. So while tennis players can book courts anytime they want, pickleball players get
very few hour. Just those 10 very early hours on weekdays, the last 3 hours on Friday night, and the last
4 hours on the weekend. A mere 21 hours total – as compared to 108 hours available to tennis players.

But that does not tell the whole story. Tennis players have exclusive rights to book all four courts in the
main building, and nearly exclusive rights to book the 3 courts in the bubble. Thus, tennis players get to
book all of the 432 court hours available in the main building. Pickleball gets none. Plus, tennis gets to
book 231 court hours in the bubble, for a total of 663 court hours. Pickleball players can only reserve 63
hours of bubble court time. That’s 663 hours available for tennis reservations, and only 63 hours for
pickleball reservations. Tennis gets more than ten times the hours that pickleball gets to book a court.
2.      The other crumbs given to pickleball

In a very token effort to make up for this enormous disparity, the MARC gives pickleball players a few
tiny crumbs. We are offered 3 hours of open play on Tuesday and Thursday nights, from 7-10 PM, and
four hours of Park City Pickleball Club play from 1-5 PM on Sunday. I will explain these in more detail
shortly. But even when you add these additional hours, you end up with tennis getting use of the 7
heated, covered courts 663 hours and pickleball players getting use of those courts just 84 hours.

Pickleball is also allowed to use the gym floor (a surface most advanced players don’t want) for open
play (no reservations allowed). Even with that, the disparity between hours allocated to tennis and
hours allocated for pickleball is huge.



3.      The explanations offered to prioritize tennis are transparently false

I have had multiple discussions with Mr. Ken Fisher, the Director of the MARC, and heard him attempt to
justify this tennis priority by saying “tennis generates much more revenue than pickleball.” With all due
respect, this is like the rooster who thought his crowing caused the sun to rise. Tennis does not get more
hours because it generates more revenue. Mr. Fisher has it exactly backwards: tennis generates more
revenue because it gets exponentially more, and far better, hours. If pickleball got the number of hours
tennis got, and all the best hours, in the nicest building, and tennis got only the worst hours in the cold
and gloomy bubble, then pickleball revenue would soar, and tennis revenues would plummet.

4.      Addressing the “noise” argument

Pickleball is noisy – there is the noise associated with the ball striking the paddle and the noise
associated with people having fun. Despite the noise there is a growing trend across the country of
Pickleball and Tennis being played side by side. In some instances, such as the public facility in
Steamboat Springs, there are noise mitigation efforts. At Red Ledges in Heber City, and in Springville and
in other places, tennis and Pickleball simply play side by side. There are many examples that can be
shared. It’s a new reality.

We need to recognize the bubble is far less than a pristine environment. If noise is a distraction for
certain players, it could easily be addressed by designating the main building for tennis and the bubble
for pickleball, or alternating days / hours. The “noise” excuse does not even remotely justify giving
tennis players 8 times more access than older pickleball players. It is not a rational solution, even if one
were to accept the very flawed premise. Indeed, as the long time director of tennis at the MARC,
Warren Pretorius, has repeatedly said, the bubble can and should be open to both sports at the same
time.

5.      The bogus “demand” argument

Mr. Fisher has also attempted to justify the gross disparity in hours by asserting that the demand for
tennis is exponentially greater than for pickleball. This is easily and demonstrably false.

One, just in the past two weeks, we have gotten 7 different e-mails from Cole Johnson, advising that the
MARC has decided to open bubble courts for booking by pickleball players because none of the courts in
the bubble were booked. This happens all the time – and it only happens if all the courts are empty. We
have no way of knowing how often pickleball players are denied the use of the bubble because two
people are playing tennis on one of the courts. But we do have multiple anecdotal accounts of 24
pickleball players forced to leave the bubble so that two tennis players could have exclusive use of the
entire facility. This is irrational, arbitrary, and it costs Park City taxpayers money.

Two, we know that pickleball is the fastest growing sport in America, with nearly 5 million participants
(see link A). Locally, we have seen the Park City pickleball Club grow from 3 dozen members two years
ago to over 1200 dues paying members today. Anyone who passes the 8 pickleball courts at Willow
Creek during the warm weather months finds them packed, with people waiting to play many mornings
– while the two tennis courts are often empty. Robert Meyerowitz, the Editor of the PC Record, and an
avid tennis player, told several of us that in his experience this is quite common.

Three, the Park City Council, the RAB and the MARC have already recognized the explosive growth and
demand for pickleball locally. The MARC did a survey and found that the greatest demand for any sport /
facility was for pickleball. The greatest growth in MARC revenue was from pickleball (despite the
horrible and very limited hours). The long-term planning by the RAB and the Council is for a new indoor
and outdoor pickleball facility at Quinn’s Junction. Thankfully there is a clear realization that there is an
unmet demand for indoor pickleball – and yet an unwillingness to address that demand at the present
time.

Fourth, the scarcity of hours available at the MARC has led many of us to play at private indoor courts in
Sandy. It is extraordinarily wasteful to have people drive 40 minutes (in good weather) from Park City to
Sandy. It contributes to gasoline emissions, traffic and for no reason other than the senseless refusal to
allow pickleball to book bubble courts. The MARC is losing customers – and revenue – every time
pickleball players drive to Sandy, and bubble courts sit unused. And after playing, when the pickleball
folks go out for a bite to eat and a drink, they are doing so in Sandy instead of Park City.

Finally, an easy and equitable way to address the demand issue now is to simply allow courts to be
booked by whomever wants them. If tennis players find the sounds of pickleball offensive, they can
book courts in the main building. If they don’t care, they can book in the bubble. Courts will be filled by
whomever wants them, and the MARC will maximize its revenue.



6.      The “open play” crumb

The MARC recently instituted “open play” from 7-10 PM on Tuesday and Thursday nights. This is giving
us nothing; indeed, it’s more a scam than a concession.

First, the time slots the MARC designated for open play were times when we could book a court last
year. We got no additional time. Instead, the MARC decided that up to 48 people could sign up to play
on courts that could only accommodate 24 players at a time. In effect, the MARC is allowing courts to be
double booked, which means that many players must sit out and wait their turn. In addition, the fee
jumped to $10 (most people book a PB court for 2 hours and pay $8.50). You have to pay more money,
and you are likely to get less actual court time (because you must sit out when there are more than 24
players), and because players are mismatched, the games are of poorer quality.
Last week, more than 40 players showed up for “open play”, meaning 16+ were sitting out at all times.
The net result is it costs more money to play less time in worse games.

Second, it’s even worse than it sounds. Because the distribution of players is (a) unknown and (b) highly
variable, you almost always wind up with an uneven distribution of players at various skill levels. Ideally,
you want a foursome that are all 4.0, or 3.5, or 3.0, etc to play together. But with open play, you might
get 11 4.0 players, 14 2.5 players, and 7 3.0 players. See the problem? When you book a foursome, you
are assured of a match among 4 people of roughly comparable skill. With open play, it’s a total
crapshoot, and you often find yourself either sitting down (waiting you turn to play), or “playing up”
(having to play with people whose skill level is greater than yours) or “playing down” (having to play
with players who are not as good). It doesn’t work nearly as well as just booking a court for your
foursome.

Third, for older players like me, there is nothing worse than playing, sitting, playing, sitting, and so forth.
You work up a sweat when you play, then you cool down and tighten up when you sit. It’s a recipe for a
cramp, pull or tear. No older athletes willingly choose such a cycle. We do it because if we don’t, we
have no other opportunity to play. We’re basically forced to take open play or no play at all. Talk about
“degrading the pickleball experience”…

Finally, if open play is such a wonderful innovation, why did the MARC impose it only on pickleball
players? Why doesn’t the MARC take away some court reservation time from tennis players and instead
charge more money for up to 32 tennis players of disparate skill levels to play on courts that can only
accommodate 16? This is yet another example of the MARC treating pickleball much worse than tennis.

7.      The explosive growth in pickleball has caused some conflicts

Admittedly, when one sport experiences sudden and rapid growth, it can cause conflict. Park City saw
that with snowboarding. Yes, there was conflict between skiers and snowboarders, but over time it
generally resolves. I know of no public ski areas that discriminate against snowboarders (though of
course a private resort like Deer Valley has that legal right). Bellow (link B) is a story about the conflict in
a NYC park, where older pickleball players and kids were vying for the same scarce space. And of course,
there has been conflict between tennis and pickleball.

The role of government is to resolve such conflicts thoughtfully, reasonably, and equitably – not to
discriminate and arbitrarily favor one sport over another.

8.      The decision-making process in Park City is tainted

It is axiomatic that public officials in decision making positions should not accept valuable gifts from
stakeholders who benefit from those decisions. In New York, the Public Officers Law prohibits giving
anything of more than nominal value to a public official. Admittedly, I’m not well versed in the law here.
But at a recent RAB meeting, Mr. Fisher told the RAB that he had been given a free trip to Florida
(presumably airfare and lodging) by the US Tennis Association. Obviously, Mr. Fisher’s decision to
allocate exponentially more court hours to tennis than to pickleball is enormously beneficial to USTA
members, who undoubtedly are facing pressure to share limited court space.

I’m not suggesting a quid pro quo or corruption of any kind. But I am a firm believer that public officials
should avoid even the appearance of impropriety. If this is a legitimate conference and Mr. Fisher’s
attendance would genuinely benefit the residents of Park City, then Park City taxpayers should foot the
bill. If it isn’t, then it undermines public trust and confidence in the independence and integrity of the
decision-making process to have USTA give an expensive gift to a public official who has recommended
such a one-sided allocation of limited court time. The Park City Council should not allow public officials
to accept gifts from those who benefit from the actions and decisions of that official.



On behalf of all of the pickleball players, I urge the PC MARC and the City Council to just do the right
thing. Give tennis the courts in the main building and let tennis and pickleball play side by side in the
bubble. Let both sports book bubble courts on a first come, first served basis. It’s the fair thing to do.
And in the long run, it’s better for everyone to settle this amicably and equitably. All we ask is that
you treat pickleball players fairly NOW, rather than make us wait years until more courts are built.
