PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
445 MARSAC AVENUE
PARK CITY, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 84060

January 21, 2020

The Council of Park City, Summit County, Utah, met in special meeting on January 21,
2020, at 11:30 a.m. in the City Council Chambers.

REGULAR MEETING

I)      ROLL CALL

      Attendee Name                                        Status
      Mayor Andy Mayor Beerman
      Council Member Max Doilney
      Council Member Becca Gerber
      Council Member Tim Henney
      Council Member Steve Joyce                           Present
      Council Member Nann Worel
      Matt Dias, City Manager
      Mark Harrington, City Attorney
      Leah Langan, Deputy City Recorder
      None                                                 Excused

III) PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON THE
AGENDA)
Mayor Beerman opened the meeting for public input on matters not being addressed on
the agenda. No comments were given. Mayor Beerman closed the public input portion
of the meeting.

VI)     NEW BUSINESS

1. Request for Approval of LATE Type 2 Convention Sales Licenses for
Businesses Operating During the 2020 Sundance Film Festival:
Beth Bynan, Business License Specialist, presented a list of late convention sales
license (CSL) applications for approval. The applications were received after the posted
and advertised deadline of January 10, 2020. Bynan reported the applicants submitted
complete applications with floor plans, design occupant load, pre-inspection from the
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 21, 2020
Page|2

Building Department, and paid Republic Service $100 to recoup trash impacts.
Applicants also paid $1,904.16 per license which was double the normal cost of a CSL.

Council Member Worel asked if Council was allowed to approve up to twelve
applications. Bynan clarified twelve was specific to liquor.

Mayor Beerman opened the meeting for public input. No comments were given. Mayor
Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting.

Council Member Gerber asked if it would be beneficial to implement an additional fee
for multiple late applications originating from one location. Bynan responded that no
discussions had taken place specific to CSLs, but the location that had ten applications
had a major impact due to how many brands were coming in as well as crowd
management. Special Events staff met with the owner of the premise as well as three
others in the neighborhood.

Council Member Gerber inquired if a fee would help decrease the number of late
applicants as well as not allow a certain number of late applications per location.
Council Member Joyce added that it was easier to add an application to an existing
location rather than add a new location that had not gone through the inspection
process. Council Member Gerber agreed but countered that 10 late applications from
one location seemed excessive. Mayor Beerman noted it was the nature of the
application process and gave the example of a hospitality suite which required
applications from every table. Bynan affirmed there were a range of activations in single
locations.

Council Member Henney stated Council relied on staff to make tweaks to the process
which led to the current form of allowing locations that have been previously approved
to repurpose the space. He indicated that Council was open to any suggestions if the
current process became a burden on staff. Bynan indicated there were a combination of
factors that made an applicant late, including Thanksgiving being a week later this year.
Council Member Henney thanked Bynan for her perspective.

Council Member Worel asked if 427 Main Street would have crowd control or if crowd
control was only applicable if they were serving liquor. Bynan answered staff
recommended that locations create their own security plan when occupancy reached a
specific number. Council Member Worel asked if the security plan was a
recommendation or requirement. Bynan clarified that occupancy security plans were a
requirement.

Council Member Doilney stated he understood the hassle created by late applicants, but
due to the nature of the festival, it might be unavoidable. He gave late film entries as an
example. Bynan concurred it was a difficult line for staff to navigate as they did not want

Park City                                 Page 2                          January 21, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 21, 2020
Page|3

to facilitate ambushers, but also wanted to keep the public safe so they advertised
permits and deadlines.

Council Member Henney moved to approve Type 2 Convention Sales Licenses for
businesses operating during the 2020 Sundance Film Festival. Council Member Gerber
seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

2. Consideration to Approve the Amendments to the 2020 Supplemental Plan and
Level 5 Permit, in a Form Approved by the City Attorney:
Jenny Diersen, Special Events, presented this item and asked Council to approve two
additional venues as requested by Sundance. The two venues included a temporary art
display of sustainable materials by Dell at the Park City Museum, 528 Main Street. Staff
received information that the specific location outlined in the staff report would not be
possible, so they were working together to finalize an exterior location at the museum.
The second location for approval was the High West Nelson Cottage, 651 Park Avenue.

Council Member Gerber inquired about the activations that would take place in the tent
located at the cottage. Diersen responded that High West was an official sponsor and
would host a variety of events. Council Member Gerber asked if there would be
amplified music. Diersen answered High West did not request additional noise
variances. Council Member Doilney asked if Dell received an alcohol permit. Diersen
stated the Dell activation would consist of an exterior art display and did not require a
permit.

Mayor Beerman asked if there were operating hours at the Nelson Cottage. Diersen
was unsure of specific operating hours, but stated all noise must end by 10:00 p.m. She
added that one of the conditions of approval was that High West not create additional
impacts on the residents in the area with the addition of the exterior tent. Mayor
Beerman inquired if a condition of approval required the tent be closed. Diersen thought
an addition to include this condition could be made, but was not aware of plans for
music to play outside of the noise ordinance time. Mayor Beerman asked if all bars were
required to close their doors regardless of whether music was played. Diersen affirmed.
Mark Harrington, City Attorney, stated the City already required the restriction and
warned against enabling music that had not been requested. Diersen added staff
requested an operation plan from High West to ensure no noise occurred outside of
ordinance hours in the residential neighborhood.

Mayor Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Mayor Beerman
closed the public hearing.


Park City                                Page 3                          January 21, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 21, 2020
Page|4

Jonathan Weidenhamer, Economic Development, noted the display area previously
considered at the Park City Museum would not work. Staff sought permission to allow
the museum to sublet any portion of their lot to display the art piece which could include
the Dolly’s Bookstore walkway. Council Member Gerber asked if the entire walkway
would be blocked. Weidenhamer responded they were attempting to be as flexible as
possible, but it would not block public access and would maintain wheelchair access.
Mayor Beerman clarified that the area still had to meet building code criteria.

Council Member Joyce moved to approve the amendments to the 2020 Supplemental
Plan and Level 5 Permit, in a form approved by the City Attorney. Council Member
Doilney seconded the motion.
RESULT: Approved
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

V)      ADJOURNMENT

VI.     PARK CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING

      I) ROLL CALL

      Attendee Name                                          Status
      Chair Andy Mayor Beerman
      Board Member Max Doilney
      Board Member Becca Gerber
      Board Member Tim Henney
      Board Member Steve Joyce                               Present
      Board Member Nann Worel
      Matt Dias, City Manager
      Mark Harrington, City Attorney
      Leah Langan, Deputy Secretary
      None                                                   Excused


II.) NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Authorize Matt Dias, Executive Director of the Lower Park
Redevelopment Agency, to Grant Façade Easements on Properties Located at
1333 & 1353 Park Avenue
Jason Glidden presented the item and stated staff would like to put façade easements
on two historic properties that were part of Woodside Phase I in cooperation with the
RDA.


Park City                                Page 4                           January 21, 2020
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 21, 2020
Page|5

Board Member Joyce asked if façade easements were put in place on previous
properties. Glidden affirmed 1450 and 1460 Park Avenue are protected with façade
easements. Board Member Joyce asked if easements affected residents from acquiring
mortgages. Glidden responded that it only protected the nature of the building and had
not affected mortgages.

Board Member Gerber inquired if the HOA assisted with repair and maintenance
payments or if the responsibility fell entirely on the homeowners. Glidden answered the
HOA did assist with repairs.

Chair Beerman opened the meeting for public input. No comments were given. Chair
Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting.

Board Member Gerber moved to authorize Matt Dias, Executive Director of the Lower
Park Redevelopment Agency, to grant façade easements on properties located at 1333
and 1353 Park Avenue. Board Member Henney seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Board Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

VII) ADJOURNMENT

With no further business, the meeting was adjourned.

                                                   _____________________________
                                                   Leah Langan, Deputy City Recorder




Park City                               Page 5                          January 21, 2020
