PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
445 MARSAC AVENUE
PARK CITY, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 84060

June 16, 2022

The Council of Park City, Summit County, Utah, met in open meeting on June 16, 2022,
at 2:45 p.m. in the City Council Chambers.

WORK SESSION

FY2022-23 City Manager's Recommended Budget: Budget Policies, Fee Schedule,
and Council Compensation Presentation and Review:
Jed Briggs and Kirsten Darrington, Budget Department, presented this item. Darrington
indicated there were some updates to the budget policy. The changes included the
policy would reflect a one-year budget cycle. Council Member Toly asked why it was
previously done every two years. Briggs stated it had not been done that way since he
worked for the City and a biennial budget was typically done for smaller municipalities.

Darrington indicated the other budget policy amendment was to suspend the existing
Economic Development Grant applications until a discussion was conducted by the
Economic Development Department with Council to align priorities. Council Member
Gerber asked if the applications on the agenda tonight should be approved.
Weidenhamer stated those applications were made under the current policy and should
be considered. Council Member Toly asked if Council should name representatives to
work in small groups in conjunction with other stakeholders like the Chamber.
Weidenhamer recommended having two liaisons such as Council Members Rubell and
Dickey and they would bring solutions back for Council’s consideration. Council Member
Rubell thought liaisons would be a good start and they could figure out how to represent
Council priorities with the different focus groups. Council favored suspending the grant
program for FY23. Dias indicated this policy could be reinstated mid-year when
solutions were found.

Darrington noted there were edits to the Special Service Contracts (SSC) language to
reflect current practices and allow for flexibility. This would also remove the March 31st
application deadline. Mayor Worel asked about the status of the mental health SSC.
Darrington stated that contract was still happening. Council Member Toly noted there
was only $60,000 in the fund. Council Member Gerber explained there was $60,000 in
Mental Health and $60,000 for Communities that Care. Briggs stated the decision on
those contracts was to wait for the community mental health gaps analysis results and
then discuss how best to utilize the funding. Darrington indicated this policy amendment
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
Page|2

would clean up the higher level policy. Dias stated Darrington was organizing a new
website to guide the user through the SSC application process in a transparent way.
Council Member Rubell remembered there was discussion on the Council having a
holistic view of City support for organizations, whether through contracts, events, etc.,
and asked if that would be part of the website. Darrington requested more information
on what was considered holistic, and asked if that would show all funding given to an
organization. Council Member Rubell gave an example of showing an organization that
received a fee waiver and a special service contract. Darrington stated she would work
with other departments to determine the best way to show that data.

Council Member Rubell stated the reasons for the policy cleanup was twofold: one was
to cleanup out-of-date things, but other things were substantive and he asked if cleanup
was one and substantive amendments would be addressed separately. Briggs stated
the procurement policy would be discussed at a future date. Other items could be
amended throughout the year. Dias stated the policies could be summarized and he
thought there were four to six that needed to be discussed. Those would come back in
the fall for discussion. Council favored the three clean up amendments.

Fee Schedule: Darrington indicated she had asked managers to evaluate their
departments’ fees with inflation considerations. Briggs explained taxes generated
revenue but fees were for a service to benefit the user and it defrayed the cost of that
service. Fees charged should cover the costs of service but should not generate
additional revenue. Council Member Toly asked about Police and Parking personnel
who regulated construction sites, and how those costs were covered. Plane stated
Building Fees were highly regulated by the State Legislature and local governments
didn't have a lot of authority. She gave examples and indicated fees could be imposed
as long as they were reasonable. Dave Thacker, Chief Building Official, stated the code
enforcement element of building permitting were in a couple buckets. One was the
regulation of construction sites which would fall in the inspection category, and would be
covered under the building permit fee. Other elements not related to construction would
be paid from another bucket.

Council Member Gerber asked about the business license fees and the service
enhancement fees, and noted a survey was being done to make sure the City fees were
in alignment with the costs the City had, especially with regard to the resort fee. There
were a lot more funds used for transit and the City provided an enhanced service to
ensure people got in and out of the resorts. She asked how licensing and assigning fees
to the resorts worked with regard to Transit, Police services and Special Events staff
helping with load in/out. Jonathan Weidenhamer, Economic Development Manager,
indicated the City was allowed to charge the amount that it took to administer the
business license. Enhanced service fees could be added to the base fee, such as
police, traffic, parking, or flower baskets on Main Street. Resorts were charged an
enhanced fee and staff was looking at different metrics to apply for the traffic control. It

Park City                                 Page 2                              June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
Page|3

was not ready, but base fees would be ready by July 1st. Council would have the ability
to apply the base fees or all fees. Council Member Gerber stated the fees were totaled
and a bill was sent to the resorts. She asked if the new fee would be ready for the
upcoming winter to which Weidenhamer affirmed and stated this would be discussed on
July 14th and potential action taken at the July 21st meeting, with heavy outreach to the
community between now and then. Darrington stated the information today was
informational. Council Member Toly asked if this would be adopted next week, to which
Briggs stated the fee schedule with the changes would be amended at a future date.
Council Member Rubell asked if the fee schedule amendments in the future would be
broader across all areas. Darrington stated the business license fee study only
pertained to that section. If there were other areas that weren't amended, they could be
discussed later and amended. Council Member Rubell stated the cost of living was
going up and cost recovery should be assessed on the other fees as well.

Council Member Doilney indicated each department requested the fee changes and he
thought that should be the protocol, instead of Council reviewing every fee. Council
Member Rubell stated the City's costs were increasing and he thought the sooner fees
were adjusted to get cost recovery the better for the City. Darrington explained the
managers looked at the fees first. Some managers didn't request fee amendments this
year because they had increased them in previous years. She noted she reached out to
the managers reminding them to review their fees and send their changes. Council
Member Rubell asked that managers look at their fees again and adjust the fees as
needed to remain cost neutral.

Council Member Toly asked to understand what the City could and could not charge for
construction mitigation fees. Council Member Doilney indicated the City went through
three years of abnormal spending due to COVID and then the recovery period. He knew
the managers had been looking at their fees and doing their best in this realm. Council
Member Rubell asked if water fee rates would be discussed in July, to which McAffee
affirmed.

Parking Fees: Council Member Toly stated the fee for a Main Street parking pass was
being reduced to $250 from $400. Wasden explained it was the midyear rate for the last
half of the calendar year. The full year rate was increasing from $400 to $500. Council
Member Toly asked about construction parking fees, to which Wasden stated those
were part of the building permit. The nightly parking or plumber parking was different.
Council Member Toly recommended removing the word construction so it was clear.

Council Member Rubell noted one thing in the fee schedule was that the first offender
would not receive a fine. It was discussed before that the Parking Department enforced
Old Town but the new policy was different now. Wasden stated the wording should be
adjusted and stated the warning only applied to first offenders on Main Street. Outside


Park City                                Page 3                             June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
Page|4

that, it was the officer's discretion. Council Member Rubell asserted the language
should be removed, even for Main Street.

Recreation Fees: Council Member Rubell discussed fees for residents versus out of
area users. In terms of the MARC, there was a 70% cost recovery and he noted the
taxpayers paid for the other 30%. He asked if the City considered the 30% when
assessing fees. Fisher stated 70% was the cost of recovery for recreation and
cemetery. Tennis recovered 130% of its costs, so not all programs were weighted the
same. He also didn't calculate the snow removal or mowing costs. It was difficult to pull
out fees based on where users lived. Council Member Rubell thought there was a policy
question of having nonresidents pay more to recover the costs since the residents paid
taxes. Fisher stated 55% of users lived in the City and if the Basin users were included
it would be 75%. A very low percentage of users lived in Heber or Kamas. He didn't
think an increase would make a big difference in the revenue generated. Daenitz
explained the 30% cost recovery funding gap was filled by General Fund operations
money, which were property tax and sales tax. The non-residents were helping fund the
majority of the cost gap. Council Member Toly thought there were many tourists who
bought punch cards, but there weren't many tourists displayed. Fisher noted they came
on the daily drop in.

Golf Fees: Council Member Rubell stated the same discussion that applied to Rec
should be discussed for Golf. Vaughn Robinson, Golf Manager, stated the philosophy of
Golf was to have an affordable amenity for the residents. The non-resident rate was $20
more than the resident rate. Council Member Rubell asked if other avenues were being
pursued to do things for the residents. Robinson stated there was no preference given
for tee times for residents. Council Member Rubell asked to look at some perks for
residents or charge visitors more in order to have more time for residents. Robinson
noted residents made up 65%-70% of the users.

Housing Capital Budget: Jason Glidden, Affordable Housing Manager, stated funds
were requested for maintenance of the City-owned affordable housing projects. Daenitz
explained the bulk of the Housing Fund was dedicated to the Woodside Park II project,
but Council was not required to use the money for that. Glidden stated the housing
projects had placeholder funds, but they would be shifted as the projects became firmer.
Daenitz noted the Additional Resort Sales Tax helped fund affordable housing projects
and he explained how those funds were appropriated. He discussed the 2019 Sales Tax
Revenue Bond and that it was meant for affordable housing. Mayor Worel stated the
senior center would be part of the Woodside Park II project and asked how that would
be funded. Daenitz stated that could be part of the Lower Park RDA. Glidden indicated
he was still in discussions with the seniors and there was a fund balance of $900,000
that could be brought over for the senior center.




Park City                                Page 4                             June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
Page|5

Daenitz received questions on how to have ongoing funds for affordable housing
projects and noted there were potential revenue sources, but they would require
expanding sales tax, issuing a GO Bond, reallocating revenue, raising property taxes,
and/or continuing to structure public/private partnerships.

Mayor Worel opened the item for public input.

Katy Wang, Executive Director of Park City Film, discussed the mission of Park City
Film. She noted the arts were important and stated films shown were very diverse. The
Santy Auditorium was the venue used for the Park City Film and Sundance Film
Festival. She requested the replacement of the chairs in the auditorium and noted the
County gave a $100,000 grant for the seating. Park City closed the gap by providing
$50,000 and she was grateful for the City's support.

Mayor Worel closed the public input.

CityTour Recap by Myles Rademan, Park City Leadership Director:
Myles Rademan stated 60 people went on the recent CityTour in May. He reviewed the
things learned and shared in Twin Falls, Boise, Bellevue, Halley, Ketchum, and Sun
Valley, Idaho.

Rademan reviewed Twin Falls had a Chobani factory with 1,000 employees because of
all the cows in the area. Boise was a fast-growing area and public art was important and
emphasized. Boise had an Anne Frank Memorial to connect the community to the
global good. In Bellevue, the group went to the community food center. This center had
been turned into a complete community center and not just a food pantry. Rademan
noted there were many elements of this already set up in Park City, such as the
Christian Center, Peoples Health Clinic, and other entities. In Ketchum, the group
visited a culinary institute and Rademan thought this type of school would be a good fit
for Park City. The group visited affordable housing projects and saw the city’s housing
efforts. These experiences caused the attendees to reflect on how these types of things
could be implemented in this community.

Mayor Worel thanked Rademan for putting together his 48th CityTour. This was a
rigorous tour and she appreciated all his work.

Special Event Requests: Bonanza Park Neighborhood Area Programming and
Event Parking Rates:
Jenny Diersen, Special Events Manager, presented this item and indicated this was a
follow-up to a previous discussion.

Bonanza Art Park: Diersen stated this location was used to bring local residents
together. Council supported mild to moderate programming in the fall. After the work

Park City                                Page 5                            June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
Page|6

session, staff discussed and proposed three options: do nothing, have minor or default
programming so it was like a park until the City decided how to use the space, or event
programming over eight days. Mayor Worel asked if nonprofits could do things on the
site if Council chose to do nothing. Diersen stated the nonprofits could apply to use the
site, but staff would not be doing anything on the site.

Council Member Toly asked if minor programming could occur in September. Diersen
stated benches could be put up in June and other passive measures. Council Member
Toly asked if it would be insured, to which Diersen affirmed. Council Member Toly
asked why the budget for Option Three was $80,000 instead of $60,000, to which
Diersen stated it was due to staffing and programming, and it could be reduced by
eliminating some of the eight planned days of programming.

Council Member Gerber thought the events grew each week last year as different
groups came to program events. She thought it would be beneficial to program Option
Three. Council Member Doilney agreed and stated the goal was to get people out to
new spaces. He saw a desire that local people wanted to get out where they didn't
normally go.

Council Member Rubell stated the latest Prospector event was put on for $500 so he
thought $80,000 was excessive. He suggested not programming it every week and
allowing other entities to program it some weeks. He supported programming every
other week to save costs. He thought it was a plus to allow other groups to host events.
Council Member Doilney thought the Prospector event was different and his takeaway
was that people in that neighborhood wanted activity near them. He suggested investing
money in the infrastructure to make it attractive so people would want to have events
there. He asked if the arts organizations asked to hold events there. Diersen stated they
were waiting to see what the City was doing. Council Member Rubell supported the
passive programming and every other week for events so other groups had the
opportunity to program the space.

Mayor Worel liked that the residents came together to fill a need. She thought this would
be a great opportunity for organizations to activate the space. She supported the
passive programming and inviting groups to hold events. Council Member Doilney
favored making the area more attractive to see the participation from the art community.
Council Member Gerber was fine if the City did less programming, and asked to make it
clear what the City was offering to do.

Weidenhamer stated in the past, staff allowed a food truck area, and asked if Council
approved the City prequalifying vendors for the site. It was indicated the area would
have passive, park programming as soon as possible, with tables, games, and
structures. Staff would explore a scope for programming up to $50,000 and Council
preferred that nonprofits programmed the area. There was support for the City to

Park City                                 Page 6                             June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
Page|7

program a Halloween festival and facilitate other nonprofits to activate the area. Staff
would make a protocol sheet for nonprofits to follow. Council Member Toly noted the
Council might have something planned for that site by next year.

Event Parking Rates: Diersen stated parking rates were generally approved with each
special event permit. The Historic Park City Alliance (HPCA) sent a letter requesting a
portion of the parking revenue during special events. Diersen reviewed the history of
splitting special event parking rates with HPCA beginning in 2010 and noted over the
years, the City had stopped splitting those revenues. The rates were now tied to
Transportation Demand Management. She displayed a chart showing peak traffic and
parking demands in the summer. When the parking rate conversation began, HPCA
was involved. Now HPCA wanted a consistent rate structure over all events. She
indicated there was a flat rate for July 4th, which was different than the rates for Silly
Market or Arts Fest. The Parking and Special Events Departments were recommending
the proposed rate structure.

Council Member Toly suggested pausing the conversation until she and Mayor Worel
could discuss it with HPCA - to review parking rates for events and the amount of
money they requested, as well as look at parking overall and what could happen to the
City once the resort started charging for parking.

Council Member Rubell agreed with the principle of raising rates for tourist events, but
he was concerned that transit solutions were not available for some areas of town. He
was undecided, but supported rate increases as a traffic mitigation tool. He would like to
see solutions for locals who attended. He didn't want to share the revenue since the City
ran the operations and had all the costs.

Council Member Gerber felt the rates were reasonable and commented the locals knew
better than anyone not to park on Main Street during events. Everyone was impacted
during peak events. The rates made sense and she agreed the City did all the work and
the enforcement. The goal was to create better transportation and parking management
and it should be tied together. Regarding the Park City Mountain Resort (PCMR)
parking rate implementation, she thought there was time to discuss that.

Council Member Doilney thought the letter requesting money was unreasonable. There
was a lot of work involved with traffic mitigation. He hoped the rates could be
implemented as soon as possible and the money should go to the City. He noted emails
were sent to Council when the traffic impacts were felt. He thought Wasden was a
forward thinker for things that would benefit the community. This was a visitor economy
and he wanted them to have a good experience in town, but it was not out of line to
charge $7/hour to park in the best spot in town.




Park City                                 Page 7                              June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
Page|8

Council Member Rubell suggested promoting bike riding. Diersen stated there were
event protocols for bike valets and bike parking. The majority of Council agreed to
implement rates and were not in support of revenue sharing. Council Member Toly was
not supportive of the decision. Council agreed to have the liaisons meet with HPCA.

REGULAR MEETING

      I) ROLL CALL

       Attendee Name                                        Status
       Mayor Nann Worel
       Council Member Max Doilney
       Council Member Becca Gerber
       Council Member Jeremy Rubell
                                                            Present
       Council Member Tana Toly
       Matt Dias, City Manager
       Margaret Plane, City Attorney
       Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder
       Council Member Ryan Dickey                           Excused

II)     COMMUNICATIONS AND DISCLOSURES FROM COUNCIL AND STAFF

Staff Communications Report:

1. FY 2022 Fraud Risk Assessment:
Council Member Rubell referred to Exhibit A and noted the City didn't have a signed
statement committing to no fraud or an audit. He thought it would be valuable to
implement both those things. Sara Nagel, City Treasurer, stated there was a policy in
the works for a fraud disclosure statement. The assessment was for governments of all
sizes so there could be a discussion on having an audit. Council Member Rubell
favored a discussion and thought it would be beneficial considering the amount of
money moved in the organization. Nagel noted the City was in a low-risk category and
she felt the emphasis was having good policies.

Council Questions and Comments:
Council Member Doilney stated Father's Day would fall on Juneteenth and he
commended the City for closing on Monday out of respect for the holiday. He noted
bigger cities in Utah had events around the holiday. He quoted Barack Obama that
Juneteenth was a holiday of progress.

Council Member Gerber stated Tim Henney was recognized by Mountainlands
Community Housing for all he did for affordable housing. She noted rising fuel costs


 Park City                               Page 8                            June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
Page|9

affected the community and stated Recycle Utah had a $235 fuel surcharge for every
bale of cardboard hauled away.

Council Member Toly attended a library board meeting and she noted many outdoor
events were at the library this summer. She also announced the Elks event and the
Open Your Barn Door event this weekend. She indicated there was a survey on
Recreation. She also disclosed she lived on 9th Street and the 9th Street Stairs item was
on today's agenda

Mayor Worel indicated the Latino Fest was June 20-26. She had open office hours on
June 27th. She also announced there would be a joint City Council/County Council
meeting on June 28th.

III) PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON THE
AGENDA)

Mayor Worel opened the meeting for any who wished to speak or submit comments on
items not on the agenda.

Deb Hartley, Executive Director for Bridge 21, stated this organization was an affordable
housing nonprofit for neuro-diverse intellectually disabled (IDD) people. She stated it
was hard for this population to find housing and she felt they needed to be part of the
affordable housing conversation.

Shirin Spangenberg, HPCA, thought it was strange that the parking rates and the
revenue share were introduced together, and she looked forward to discussing the
issue with Mayor Worel and Council Member Toly.

Casey Hansen asked for clarification on what was considered a public right-of-way. He
was a local musician and he utilized many alleys so he didn't have to go all the way
around. A couple weeks ago a security guard attacked him, threw him to the ground and
threw him out of the alley. There used to be a stairwell in the alley and he used it for
years. The stairs were removed, the gate was broken, and it was south of the veteran's
war building. One of the Cabin security guards tackled him. He asked if the City had
specified which alleys were public rights-of-way. The Planning Commission couldn't
clarify which alleys were rights-of-way. He indicated some businesses owned some of
the alleys. Mayor Worel asked City Manager Dias and staff to help Hansen get answers
to his questions.

Mayor Worel closed the public input portion of the meeting.

IV)   CONSIDERATION OF MINUTES


Park City                                Page 9                             June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
P a g e | 10

1. Consideration to Approve the City Council Meeting Minutes from May 26, 2022:

Council Member Gerber moved to approve the City Council meeting minutes from May
26, 2022. Council Member Toly seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly
EXCUSED: Council Member Dickey

V)    CONSENT AGENDA

1. Request to Authorize the City Manager to Execute Contracts for Water Quality
Consultant Services, in Forms Approved by the City Attorney, with Water Quality
& Treatment Solutions, Inc., in an Amount not to exceed $50,000. and Confluence
Engineering Group, LLC, in an Amount Not to Exceed $50,000:

Council Member Rubell moved to approve the Consent Agenda. Council Member
Gerber seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly
EXCUSED: Council Member Dickey

VI)   OLD BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Approve Ordinance No. 2022-18, an Ordinance Annexing
Approximately 1,200 Acres of Property Located in the Southeast Quinn’s
Junction Area into the Corporate Limits of Park City, Utah, and Amending the
Official Zoning Map of Park City to Zone the Property Recreation and Open Space
within the Entry Corridor Protection and Sensitive Land Overlays:
Rebecca Ward, Assistant Planning Director, presented this item. Dias stated many staff
and community members had come forward and were impressed with the progress staff
had made on the annexation. He thanked staff who worked on this over the last six
months. Ward reviewed the process for annexing this parcel and noted the area would
be annexed as Recreation and Open Space. There was a lease within the annexation
area for a park and ride. The Clark Ranch property was included and Ward noted the
purchase included a conservation easement on part of the parcel.

Ward stated the environmental quality was evaluated on the parcel and a portion was
designated the Richardson Flat Tailings Impoundment-Operable Unit 1 (OU1). Council
Member Gerber asked if annexing would affect the City's ability to request the owner of
OU1 to clean up that area. Plane stated the City could make a request, but it had no
authority to demand the cleanup. Council Member Gerber asked what the next steps of

Park City                               Page 10                            June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
P a g e | 11

the property being the boundary were. Ward stated the annexation would be certified by
the Lt. Governor.

Mayor Worel opened the public hearing.

Landon Allred on behalf of the Town of Hideout stated there was a conflict between this
annexation and Hideout's annexation. There were six lawsuits with regard to the
annexation dispute. There was a link on Page 204 of the Council packet to Hideout's
protest letter, but he wanted to discuss the procedural issues. He explained the statute
and process for annexation. The problem with this annexation was the process was
defective because the County Clerk did not forward the Hideout protest letter to the
Boundary Commission. She determined that Hideout's annexation was invalid.
Hideout's annexation was actually valid and that area was already annexed. The
annexation was not voided and it was an affected entity and the letter should have gone
to the Boundary Commission. The Boundary Commission acted on the assumption the
annexation was invalid. So, the Council had no analysis from the Boundary Commission
and they didn’t have a full land use report. If this was approved, another lawsuit would
ensue. Procedure mattered and the procedure for this annexation was wrong. He
requested Council pause on approving this.

Mayor Worel closed the public hearing.

Margaret Plane, City Attorney, stated there had been six lawsuits for a while. Park City
followed the statutory process. There were two lawsuits currently in the Fourth District
Court and Hideout and Summit County, and the Hideout Annexation was voided as of
two hours ago. An appeal could be made to the higher courts. There was another
lawsuit with Summit County and Brockbank, which was not with Larry H. Miller, on the
Flagstaff Development Agreement which stated the area was designated as recreation
and open space. Summit County prevailed on that lawsuit. Summit County Clerk Eve
Furse used her authority to determine if protests were valid and only one of four letters
was valid. That protest went to the Boundary Commission and the commission
determined the protest was invalid. It was appealed and the District Court upheld the
decision. The decision was appealed to the Court of Appeals and the stay was denied.
There was a suit if Furse had the authority and it was making its way through the
system. Process and substance mattered, and the City was working in good faith to
annex the property. The recommendation was to consider this now and there were no
legal barriers from approving the annexation.

Council Member Doilney moved to approve Ordinance No. 2022-18, an ordinance
annexing approximately 1,200 acres of property located in the Southeast Quinn’s
Junction area into the corporate limits of Park City, Utah, and amending the Official
Zoning Map of Park City to zone the property Recreation and Open Space within the
Entry Corridor Protection and Sensitive Land Overlays. The area was already subject to

Park City                                Page 11                             June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
P a g e | 12

the Flagstaff Development Agreement and the open space acquisition restrictions. The
Council determines that under the circumstances of the annexation, the conditions of
Land Management Code Section 15-8-5 do not apply and no other agreement is
necessary. Council Member Gerber seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly
EXCUSED: Council Member Dickey

VII) NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Set the Date of June 23, 2022, for a Public Hearing on
Ordinance 2022-20, an Ordinance Establishing Compensation for the Elected and
Statutory Officers for FY 2023:
Penny Frates, Budget Analyst, and Sarah Mangano, Human Resources Director,
presented this item. Frates noted the wages for statutory officers and the Council and
Mayor were increasing 10.33%.

Council Member Doilney explained the Council had flexibility to give officers raises,
subject to performance reviews, education, certifications, etc. The ranges were set to be
equal to peer communities. Council Member Rubell asked what metrics were available
for the actual salary increases. Frates stated that wasn't set yet. After the actual pay
was established, she could return with an average.

Council Member Toly asked if Council wages were similar to Summit County officials.
Frates indicated she would return with those numbers. Council Member Rubell asked if
the increase in health benefits was due to the insurance cost increase, to which Frates
affirmed.

Mayor Worel opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Mayor Worel closed
the public hearing.

Council Member Rubell did not support the elected officials’ pay increase and felt as
leadership, he would rather see the money going to the employees earning at the
bottom of the spectrum. He preferred to have an increase next year, after observing
what happened over this next year with attracting and retaining employees. He
supported the raises for statutory officers and the increase in health insurance for
Council.

Council Member Gerber stated the Mercer study tried to make the pay attractive for
those who needed it and for future councils. There had been a discussion on whether
Council members had a more time-consuming job. Council Member Rubell suggested
tabling the raise this year and discussing it next year before the election. Council

Park City                                Page 12                            June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
P a g e | 13

Member Gerber thought passing a smaller percentage now would be better than
approving a 13% pay increase next year, especially if there was a downturn. Frates
stated they wanted to stay consistent across the board. Council Member Toly stated this
was not a part-time job and Council should be paid commensurate to their work. Council
Member Doilney indicated it was hard to look at compensation for yourself. He hoped to
see many candidates for City Council and the pay could make a difference. He was
interested to see what other Council members earned in other jurisdictions. If people
ran for office who had the time, a living wage could help gain interest from other groups
who needed a full-time job.

Mayor Worel stated the Council wage was what was recommended a few years ago
and she asked for a blue-ribbon commission to reconvene. The majority of Council
favored moving forward with both raises. Council Member Rubell disagreed.

Council Member Gerber moved to set the date of June 23, 2022, for a public hearing on
Ordinance 2022-20, an ordinance establishing compensation for the elected and
statutory officers for FY 2023. Council Member Doilney seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly
EXCUSED: Council Member Dickey

2. Discuss 9th Street Stairs Capital Project:
Matt Twombly, Senior Project Manager, and Michelle Downard, Resident Advocate,
presented this item. Twombly reviewed the history of how the City was platted and how
the east/west rights-of-way were actually hills too steep to use as roads. He displayed a
map showing the three levels of stairs that would improve walkability. The plan was to
break up the construction into two phases. The issue with the 9th Street Stairs was 8th
Street and Crescent Tram, since the street was narrow and steep with many driveways,
which made it difficult for pedestrians. Ninth Street was not accessible in the winter, and
there was no off-street parking.

Twombly stated the stairs were four feet wide and there was room for wildlife and
possibly a bike trail alongside them. On 6th Street, there was a ramp on the side of the
stairs so bikers could push their bikes alongside the stairs instead of carrying the bikes.
He noted the outreach efforts made with onsite and zoom meetings and the Spring
Projects Open House. The input on the project was mixed. Some concerns raised were
a lack of open space and reduced privacy. Supportive residents asserted the stairs
would increase walkability in the area.

Twombly noted there would be a budget request for snow removal next budget year. He
gave options if Council decided not to construct the stairs on 9th Street.


Park City                                 Page 13                             June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
P a g e | 14

Council Member Doilney asked what the reason was for constructing the stairs in two
phases. Twombly stated funding was a big reason. Also, the upper section of 9th Street
had many utilities and a different approach would be taken for those stairs, such as
using concrete instead of footings. Council Member Doilney asked if there would be a
benefit for completing both phases at the same time. He wanted to minimize the
construction impacts and stated the walkability in the area was lacking. Twombly stated
he did not have firm estimates for the project, but he knew it would be expensive.
Council Member Toly noted a lot next to the proposed stairs was for sale so there could
be simultaneous construction.

Mayor Worel opened the item for public input.

Jody Whitesides lived in the area and he thought it would be nice to have the stairs. He
was instrumental in making Crescent a one-way street because the road was so
narrow. He thought 8th Street should be completed too. There was a footpath on 9th
Street so it made sense to put stairs there. Also on 10th Street between Norfolk and
Empire, the street was starting to slide and it was pushing the stairs out.

Ed and Annette Keller via Zoom, were opposed to the stairs. It was one of the few
remaining open spaces where children could play and wildlife could traverse. The
people walking to go skiing walked on Norfolk Avenue, Woodside Avenue, or Crescent
Tram. He doubted many people would carry skis to the 9th Street stairs if they wanted to
go to the Main Street area because it was 75 yards out of the way. They wanted to
know the percentage of comments that were favorable to putting up the stairs.

Cheryl Soshnik via Zoom, stated many people were going up the 10th Street stairs or
were walking on the street. It made sense to construct the 9th Street stairs for safety and
walkability reasons. Since COVID, there had been an increase in people walking around
town. It was very needed.

Maria McNulty eComment: “In reviewing the packet, I don’t see any mention of the in-
person meeting that was help with you and Matt on May 4. At that meeting, there were
4 old town residences represented, of this 3 lived right on 9th street. Those three asked
to go on record in opposition to the stairs. During this meeting we discussed at length
the opposition to implementing stairs on 9th between Woodside and Norfolk, if there is
not a comprehensive plan (or even understanding the feasibility) for stairs all the way to
Empire; and further, we discussed the use of signage and other traffic calming
measures BEFORE building stairs. Apologies if I missed anything in the packet in
reference to this, but if the meeting notes are missing, will they be added? I also failed
to see my correspondence dated May 17 (attached.). I was told they would be shared
with Council. Again, apologies if I missed this in the packet, however I would like
confirmation that my opposition to the 9th street stairs has been noted by Council.
During our May 4 meeting, we were assured that should the stairs be approved on 9th

Park City                                Page 14                             June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
P a g e | 15

street that there would still be ample green space for animals, kids and mountain bikers.
I have immense concern around this. Simply looking at how homes have landscaped
the land alongside other sets of stairs (see images below) demonstrates that not only is
there no access for other users, it further underscores the need to maintain this
important remaining green corridor (9th street).”

Mayor Worel closed the public input for this item.

Council Member Doilney supported moving forward but wanted staff to explore the idea
of doing it all at once. Council Member Gerber indicated there were several applications
from residents to use the 9th Street stairs property for driveways and she wanted it
preserved for stairs. She thought it would be great if it could all be completed at the
same time. She favored planting vegetation to help with privacy for the residents.

Council Member Rubell asked if the stairs would be installed on an easement. Twombly
stated it was an undeveloped right-of-way. Council Member Rubell agreed with Council
Member Doilney and thought it was a safety issue and should be completed as soon as
possible.

Council Member Toly indicated Treasure Hill was a great hiking area and had only a few
parking spots. People going to the trail used Crescent Tram and the stairs would help
pedestrians get there. She hoped to see signage for all the City stairs. There also
needed to be more "No Parking" signs. She hoped to see a solution for cars on 8th
Street since that street was so narrow. She agreed with Council Member Doilney to
complete both phases simultaneously.

Downard reiterated there was mixed feedback and asked Council if they supported
mitigation efforts for those living directly next to the stairs. Council agreed. Council
Member Rubell stated the City's responsibility was to provide safe access, and being a
good neighbor was nice. He didn't want to hear from staff that the stairs could not be
completed because of landscaping next to the neighbors. Council Member Doilney
agreed and suggested having connections to homes from stairs or masking was nice,
but he wanted to be consistent.

Council Member Toly asked if this was the last project for stair connectivity. Twombly
stated this was the last area where stairs could go. The upper Main Street area was
completed. She asked why stairs couldn't be constructed on 8th Street. Twombly stated
the width was an issue for that right of way but he could look at it to see how much room
there was.

3. 2021 Annual Drinking Water Quality Consumer Confidence Report:
Michelle DeHaan, Water Quality Manager, reviewed the State law that required the City
to provide an annual water quality report to all residents. Several Public Utilities staff

Park City                                Page 15                             June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
P a g e | 16

introduced themselves. DeHaan indicated over the last 10 years, the City constructed
several water treatment plants to ensure pure water. There was state of the art
treatment technologies, there was continuous water monitoring, and the City had good
regional partners. She noted the 3Kings Water Treatment Plant would begin providing
water this summer. She reviewed the City's different plants and the different
technologies needed for treatment at each one. One challenge was the salt content
from wells around the City. This was slightly above the State limit and the City was
involved in discussions with the State.

DeHaan discussed efforts going forward, including the 3Kings Water Treatment Plant,
ice pigging, a pilot program with homeowners to determine the evidence of copper and
lead pipes, and being proactive with chemicals detected in groundwater wells. The Utah
Division of Water would come out with regulations on the chemicals and would set a
limit for these chemicals in the water supply.

Council Member Rubell referred to the immunocompromised section of the report, and
asked for information on cryptosporidium. DeHaan stated the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) required the table that was published include compounds detected, but
cryptosporidium was not detected. Council Member Rubell asked if the customer meter
site evaluation was live. DeHaan stated it was a pilot program to gather information from
homeowners. The public side would be harder because the City would have to dig.

Council Member Gerber was glad the PFAS chemical was discussed because it was in
the news a lot, and she asked if washing a nonstick pan would put the chemical into the
water supply. DeHaan stated large water systems monitored for PFAS, but detection
levels were much higher. Now monitoring could be detected at lower levels. Utah was
monitoring groundwater wells and they were not detecting the chemicals. Council
Member Doilney stated the chemical was found in three wells, and asked what the
mitigation would be. DeHaan indicated they would wait for a determination from the
EPA. They didn't know if the levels found were above what the EPA would set as a limit.
It needed to be assessed before a determination was made. McAffee stated part of the
pipeline project included blending water sources so there were many options available.
Council Member Toly stated part of the process was to educate the public not to buy the
products.

4. Consideration to Approve an Economic Development Grant Contract for
$10,000 for Wild Events, LLC:
Jonathan Weidenhamer and Ellie Cutting, Wild Events, were present for this item.
Weidenhamer stated there was money in the current budget and this was a case for
community. The business provided a service not met in the community. The applicant
requested $20,000, but the recommendation was to grant $10,000. Cutting lived in Park
City for eight years and worked in events for the past 10 years. She started her event


Park City                               Page 16                             June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
P a g e | 17

company because she had seen a demand for tabletop rentals. She had done 31
events so far this year and had 65 bookings in the next few months.

Mayor Worel asked if this was a franchise, to which Cutting stated no, but she would
travel to other locations. Mayor Worel asked if she picked up the tableware, to which
Cutting stated she did at times. Council Member Gerber reviewed that grants historically
were geared to bring people to the City. Now the focus was people here who wanted to
expand and grow their business. Council Member Toly asked what the marketing
strategy was for bringing in more clientele. Cutting stated she knew people in town who
referred her.

Mayor Worel opened the item for public input. No comments were given. Mayor Worel
closed the public input portion of the item.

Council Member Doilney stated businesses like this made Park City feel like a small
town and he liked to help these entrepreneurs. Council Member Toly agreed and stated
she liked the small businesses and didn't want everything to turn corporate.

Council Member Doilney moved to approve an economic development grant contract for
$10,000 for Wild Events, LLC. Council Member Gerber seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly
EXCUSED: Council Member Dickey

VIII) ADJOURNMENT

PARK CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING

   I) ROLL CALL

     Attendee Name                                          Status
     Chair Nann Worel
     Board Member Max Doilney
     Board Member Becca Gerber
     Board Member Jeremy Rubell
                                                            Present
     Board Member Tana Toly
     Matt Dias, City Manager
     Margaret Plane, City Attorney
     Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder
     Board Member Ryan Dickey                               Excused



Park City                               Page 17                            June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
P a g e | 18

II)  PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON
THE AGENDA)

Chair Worel opened the meeting for any who wished to speak or submit comments on
items not on the agenda. No comments were given. Chair Worel closed the public input
portion of the meeting.

III) NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Approve an Economic Development Grant Contract for
$20,000 for Alpine Distilling:
Jonathan Weidenhamer and Sara Sergent, Alpine Distilling, presented this item.
Weidenhamer asked for a grant to offset costs from tenant improvements as Alpine
Distilling relocated from the basement into their storefront. He noted when the City
needed hand sanitizer, Sergent and her family worked to make it for the City.

Sergent stated the Alpine Pie Bar and Distilling was in line with community values: they
opened their space to nonprofits when they weren't open, and they employed diverse
people in their business.

Board Member Rubell asked about water impact fees and the benefits of moving into
the City. Sergent stated when they operated in Silver Creek, the impact fee was
$4,805.56, and it would be $66,000 in the City limits which they got reduced to $58,000.
She wanted to make sure they could accommodate their team.

Chair Worel opened the item for public input. No comments were given. Chair Worel
closed the public input portion of the item.

Board Member Doilney stated it wasn't often where members of the community
embodied the word community. The Sergents had been givers since they came to the
City. The grant process showed they were participating in every way. Board Member
Rubell agreed and stated in looking forward, the program needed to look at what the
City was trying to accomplish to attract businesses and what barriers existed that
prevented businesses from moving to the community.

Board Member Rubell moved to approve an economic development grant contract for
$20,000 for Alpine Distilling. Board Member Doilney seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Board Members Doilney, Gerber, Rubell, and Toly
EXCUSED: Board Member Dickey

IV)   ADJOURNMENT

Park City                                Page 18                            June 16, 2022
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
June 16, 2022
P a g e | 19

With no further business, the meeting was adjourned.

                                                        ________________________
                                                       Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder




Park City                              Page 19                           June 16, 2022
 City Manager’s
FY23 Recommended Budget
Timeline
                          Budget Timeline

May 12   • Tentative Budget Adoption




          May 26            • Operating Budget Overview




                               June 9        • Capital Budget Overview




                                               June 16          • Fee Changes, Policies,
                                                                  Compensation Ordinance, etc.



                                                                 June 23           • Final Budget Adoption
                    FY23 Budget Update
• Budget Policies & Objectives: Review the updated budget policies and
  proposed changes. Determine if changes should be adopted as part of the
  FY23 Budget on June 23 or later as part of a broader Budget Policy update

• FY23 City Fee Schedule: Review the fee schedule, proposed changes and
  provide feedback ahead of adoption

• Elected and Statutory Officer Compensation: Review Compensation and
  provide feedback

• Wrap Up Capital Presentation: Housing, Water, Flagstaff Fee Transfers

• Miscellaneous/Outstanding Budget Items: Review the changes between the
  Tentative and Final Budgets
Budget Policies
                       Budget Policies

• Adopted as part of the annual City Budget

• Govern stewardship of public funds and ensure transparency

• Propose Council adopt some minor adjustments on June 23, and direct the
  Budget Team to return with a broader Budget Policy update later this year
                          Budget Policies
Budget Organization (Chapter 1, Part I)

• Propose the policy be updated to reflect a one-year budget cycle

• Current policy recommends PCMC operate under a two-year budget cycle.
  However, the City has effectively operated under a one-year cycle for multiple
  years

• This change supports the City’s actual operating environment

• City will continue to proactively forecast revenues, demonstrate restraint when
  considering ongoing cost increases, and submit a 5-year CIP, like other cities
                                   Budget Policies
Economic Development Grant Policy (Chapter 1, Part II)

•   Propose suspending the existing program to prevent accepting any additional grant applications
    until a future City Council policy discussion is conducted by the Economic Development
    Department. The program criteria would benefit from a considerable update to reflect the current
    Council’s goals.

•   This program was created in 2006 to provide financial assistance to small businesses; Council last
    updated this policy in 2017

•   Aligns with specified Community goals and State criteria

•   The following funds are available annually within the program but are absorbed back into the general
    fund if not awarded:
          Anywhere in City limits (general fund)        $10,000
          Lower Park RDA                                $20,000
          Main St. RDA                                  $20,000

•   To date, $176,000 has been awarded to 14 businesses
                               Budget Policies
Special Service Contracts (Chapter 5, Part II, Section D):

• Propose adopting minor edits to better reflect current practices and allow for flexibility
      The March 31 application deadline has also been removed to allow for more flexibility

• Park City partners with local nonprofits to provide valuable services to the community through
  Special Service Contracts (SSCs)

• Funds different types of services such as cultural events, educational programs, and
  emergency services

• Awarded through a competitive RFP process and applications evaluated by the Special
  Service Contracts Committee.

• In FY21, Council approved a revamp of the application process, creating two categories:
  Regular Service Contracts (four-year cycle) and Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Service
  Contracts (two-year cycle)
FY23 Fee Schedule
                       FY23 Fee Schedule Changes
  Building Fees (Section 1.2, page 5)
- Increases Building Permit Fee from 1.00% of Total Valuation of construction to 1.05% with a minimum
   fee of $50.00

  Engineering Fees (Section 1.3, page 8)
- Increase to Construction Inspection Fees
- Updates criteria for Permit to Work in Public Right-of-Way to better define requirements and costs
- Adds new fee for Processing of Small Wireless Facility Applications (1.3.3)
- Adds new fee for Road Closure Permits (1.3.4)

  Water Metered Services Fees (Section 2.2, page 10)
- The Public Utilities department is proposing a 3% increase to all water fees.

  GRAMA Fees (Section 6.4, page 18)
- Compiling Documents – Removes language saying no charge may be made for the first quarter hour
   of staff time used to compile documents for a GRAMA request. Change aligns with recent revisions to
   state code
                       FY23 Fee Schedule Changes
  Parking Fees (Section 7, page 19)
- Proposes increases to majority of parking fees, including parking violations, parking permits, parking
   lot and meter rates

  Recreation Fees (Section 8.2 – 8.3, page 25)
- Updates name from Recreation Center to PC MARC and corrects Director’s title throughout policy for
   consistency and clarity
- Increases and reorganizes Field User fees table for clarity
- Updates income ranges for the Sliding Fee Scale, which applies a discount to specific fees based on
   Summit County Average Median Income

  PC MARC Fees (Section 8.4, page 26)
- Increases Youth Clinic Fees
- Increases pickle ball fees and adds new fees for groups
- Increases Facility Pass fees and removes Couples Rates
- Simplifies rates for Tennis Passes by removing the Couples and Additional Family Members Rates.
   Increases Tennis Youth Clinic fees
- Adds new fees for Full Day Gymnasium Use
                       FY23 Fee Schedule Changes
  Golf Fees (Section 8.5, page 29)
- Proposes modest increases to majority of fees to offset rising costs
- Adds one new fee for Lodging/Advance booking 18 Hole with cart of $90.00

  Cemetery Fee Waivers (Section 8.7, page 30)
- Removes language for resident eligibility

  Park Pavilion Rental Fees (Section 8.8, page 31)
- Increases Park Pavilion Rental fees

  Ice Arena and Fields Rental Fees (Section 9, page 35)
- Removes fees no longer being used, including the Super Star Birthday Package, Drop-in Broomball,
   and the skate treadmill
- Adds new fee for Stick and Puck rental
- Drop-in Curling fee revised to reflect per lane instead of per individual
- For-profit ice rental rate increasing by $20.00; all other hourly ice rental rates increased by $5.00
- Updating section 9.2 for Recreation Programs to include language for season passes
- Adds Overnight Rental Staffing fee of $100/hour per employee
- Increases and reorganizes Field User fees for clarity
                FY23 Fee Schedule Changes
Fees Currently Under Review: Business Licensing Fees Update - Informational

• Per Utah Code § 10-1- 203, a municipality may assess a fee to cover administrative costs of
  issuing business licenses

• Park City is conducting a comprehensive business license fee study; study was last updated in
  2005 and 2013

• The cost of providing administrative services has increased considerably over time

• Most resort towns are reassessing their business licensure programs post COVID-19

Timeline:
• Base administrative fee study is being conducted and expected to be complete by July 2022
• Enhanced and disproportionate fee study is scheduled for completion in August 2022
• Park City notices licensed businesses for their annual, or 2023, license renewal in August.
   Proactive outreach with the business community is planned to begin in June
Elected and Statutory Officer
       Compensation
                       Elected and Statutory Officer
                       Compensation Rate Changes
• For FY23, the Elected Official and     Mayor                                       FY 2021-2022           FY 2022-2023
  Statutory Officer Compensation is       Wages                                      $            45,366.72 $           50,053.00
                                          Health Benefits (or cash in lieu)          $            21,522.48 $           22,600.00
  mainly consistent with the Pay Plan     Car Allowance                              $             3,000.00 $            3,000.00
  recommendation                         Total                                       $            69,889.20 $           75,653.00

• Recommends Mayor and Council           City Council                                FY 2021-2022           FY 2022-2023
  receive an across the board 10.33%      Wages                                       $           23,435.04 $            25,856.00
                                          Health Benefits (or cash in lieu)           $           21,522.48 $           22,600.00
  increase to keep pace with regional    Total                                       $            44,957.52 $           48,456.00
  inflation and the increasingly time-
  consuming duties of elected office     Statutory Officers                             FY 2021-2022 Range             FY 2022-2023 Range
                                          City Manager                                        $137,000 - $174,991       $158,250 – $211,000
                                          City Attourney                                      $163,404 - $192,355       $176,493 – $235,324
                                          City Treasurer                                                            
                                                                                                $64,000 - $93,844        $82,860 – $110,480
                                          City Engineer                                                             
                                                                                              $124,086 - $138,456       $124,938 – $166,585
                                          City Recorder                                                   
                                                                                                $79,039 - $90,861        $82,860 – $110,480
                                                       FY23 Elected and Statutory Officer Compensation Rate Changes
Capital Presentation
 Housing & Water
                                      Housing – Small New Requests
                                       FY22                                               FY23

                            Central Park Condos +10k


                                Woodside Phase I +10k



                                                      Please see subsequent slides for
                                                   broader overview of proposed housing
                                                       re-allocation of Capital budget




Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                                  Housing Summary

  Former Allocation

   CP0362 Woodside Phase II & CP0361 Land Acquisition/Banking Program



  New Allocation
                                                      Housing Capital Projects by 5Y $
                                                           Carry                                                                            5Y Total
  $ Rank                          Project                 Forward       FY22        FY23       FY24        FY25        FY26        FY27       Plan
       1CP0013 Affordable Housing Program                   $765,116 $11,196,029          $0          $0          $0          $0        $0 $11,961,145
       2CP0362 Woodside Phase II                         $12,802,208 ($7,800,000)         $0          $0          $0          $0        $0 $5,002,208
       3CP0361 Land Acquisition/Banking Program                   $0 $3,049,845           $0          $0          $0          $0        $0 $3,049,845
       4CP0358 Homestake Housing                                  $0 $3,000,000           $0          $0          $0          $0        $0 $3,000,000
       5CP0566 Clark Ranch Housing                                $0           $0 $3,000,000          $0          $0          $0        $0 $3,000,000
       6CP0557 Lite Deed Program                                  $0           $0 $1,000,000          $0          $0          $0        $0 $1,000,000
       7CP0309 Woodside Phase I                                   $0      $10,000         $0          $0          $0          $0        $0     $10,000
                                                   Total $13,567,324 $9,455,874 $4,000,000            $0          $0          $0        $0 $27,023,198




Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                            Affordable Housing & Land Acquisition
                                Summary – Source of Revenue

                                             Revenues for Housing & Land Acquisition Projects
                                2019 Sales Tax Revenue Bond                                   $22,946,374
                                Sale of Assets                                                 $1,020,000
                                Additional Resort Sales Tax                                    $1,049,845
                                LPA RDA Balance                                                   $30,242
                                Fee In Lieu                                                      $518,487
                                Interest Earnings                                                 $40,049
                                Other/Misc Capital Accrued Balance                             $1,418,201
                                                                                    Total     $27,023,198



PCMC 2019 Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Bond Authority and Purpose:
“The proceeds of the 2019 Bonds may be used by the City for financing: (i) a portion of the costs of a
revolving program of acquiring and constructing affordable housing units, (ii) parking and plaza improvements, (iii) road
improvements, (iv) open space acquisition, (v) park, recreation and community
center improvements and (vi) paying costs of issuance of the 2019 Bonds.”


Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                   Increases to Housing Funding
                                      Potential Paths Forward

                      1                                     3                                         5
                                                                                             Structure Public
                                                                                            Private Partnership
             Re-Allocate                              Propose G.O.                             with Revenue


                                          2                                    4
               ARCST                                     Bond                                 Accruing Non-
                                                                                                   Profit
         Recurring Revenue                          One-Time Revenue
                                                                                           Recurring Revenue



                                  Re-Allocate                           Raise Property
                                     TRT                                    Taxes
                                Recurring Revenue                      Recurring Revenue



        Note: The FY22 and FY23 Capital Budgets for Housing do not consider any of the first four
                                             strategies.
Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                                                Housing Strategy
                                                                                     PCMC Relative Value Housing Strategy Analysis
                                                                                                            Strategy
                                                           Purchase Price     Lite Deed                                                          Public Private/Non-
                                                                                             City Build & Sell     Rent to Own   Shared Equity
                                                             Buy Down        Restriction                                                          Profit Partnership
                                                                                               Configurable Model Parameters
                                Funding Access, $           $25,000,000     $25,000,000        $25,000,000         $25,000,000    $25,000,000       $25,000,000
                     Assumed 2022 Market Price, $            $850,000        $850,000           $850,000            $850,000       $850,000              -
                      Assumed Discount Factor, %               47%             15%                47%                  0%            20%                 -
   Assumed Number of Executable Transactions/Year,
                                               No.              10               12                 15                   8            10                  -
                Assumed Monthly Rent Charged, $                  -                -                  -                 $2,500          -                  -
                         Assumed Cost per Acre, $                -                -                  -                    -            -             $4,500,000
           Assumed Buildable Units per Acre, Acres               -                -                  -                    -            -                 70
    Assumed Annual Growth Rate of PC Home Prices,
                                                %              10.0%           10.0%              10.0%                10.0%        10.0%              10.0%
                                                                                                          Key Outcomes
                                    Units Acquired, No.         50               121               54                  26             94                 389
                            Acquisition Cost Per Unit, $     $500,000         $206,612          $462,963            $834,038       $265,957            $64,286
        Years for City to Acquire Affordable Units, Yrs.       5.00             10.08             3.60                5.67           9.40                5.00
                  City Revenue or Equity Generated, $      ($25,000,000)    ($25,000,000)     ($25,000,000)        $28,315,000    $24,688,515       ($25,000,000)
                                                                                                Strategy Single Criteria Rank
                              Maximize Units Acquired            5                2                  4                    6            3                  1
                   Minimize Acquisition Cost Per Unit            5                2                  4                    6            3                  1
    Minimize Years for City to Acquire Affordable Units          2                6                  1                    4            5                  2
         Maximize City Revenue or Equity Generated               3                3                  3                    1            2                  3
      Council Defined Sentiment - Community Benefit              1                1                  1                    1            1                  1
                            Weighted Average Score              3.2              2.8                2.6                  3.6          2.8                1.6
                                                                                                  Strategy MiniMax Regret
Source: PCMC as of June 2022. Overall MiniMax Rank               5               3                  2                    6            3                  1
                                                           Library
                                  FY22                               FY23

                    Library Development & Donations +12k




Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                                                       Water Fund
           Water Fund FY22 Projected Expenses vs. Revenues Ex Capital                             Water Fund FY23 Projected Expenses vs. Revenues Ex Capital
                  Revenues                             Expenses                                           Revenues                              Expenses
  Water Charges for                                                                      Water Charges for
  Services                  $19,819,145 Personnel                   $3,760,132           Services                     $20,392,268 Personnel               $4,471,634
  Planning Building &                                                                    Planning Building &
  Engineering Fees                      Materials, Supplies and                          Engineering Fees                         Materials, Supplies and
  (Impact Fees)              $1,183,938 Services                      $343,896           (Impact Fees)                 $1,219,456 Services                   $479,911
  Federal Revenue              $456,274 Utilities                   $1,208,900           Federal Revenue                 $469,962 Utilities               $1,219,298
                                        Contract                                                                                  Contract
                                        Services/Consulting/Softwar                                                               Services/Consulting/Sof
  Misc. Revenues               $203,002 e                           $1,383,542           Misc. Revenues                  $209,092 tware                   $1,850,331
                                                                                                                                  Parts/Maintenance
                                             Parts/Maintenance Supplies     $1,060,905                                            Supplies                $1,407,280
                                             Special Service                                                                      Special Service
                                             Contract/Misc. Charges           $112,000                                            Contract/Misc. Charges     $122,542
                                             Debt Service                   $6,547,947                                            Debt Service            $9,313,682
                                             Interfund Transfer             $1,807,429                                            Interfund Transfer      $1,834,448

  Total Revenue Ex                                                                       Total Revenue Ex                        Total Expense Ex
  Bond Proceeds                 $21,662,359 Total Expense Ex Capital       $16,224,751   Bond Proceeds               $22,290,778 Capital                    $20,699,126

                                             Net Revenues Available for                                                           Net Revenues Available
                                                                         $11,985,555                                                                        $10,905,334
                                             Debt & Cash Capital                                                                  for Debt & Cash Capital
                                             Net Operating Revenue After                                                          Net Operating Revenue
                                             Debt Service for Cash        $5,437,608                                              After Debt Service for     $1,591,652
                                             Capital                                                                              Cash Capital

                                             Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                                          Debt Service Coverage
                                             FY22                                  1.8                                            Ratio FY23                        1.2


       YoY% increase in fund balance driven by bond proceeds associated with 3Kings WTP.
Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                                                                       Water Fund
                                                                              Water Fund Operations FY22 vs. FY23 YoY% Change
                                                                                                          FY22 Expense                                  FY23 Expense                           YoY% Change
 Personnel                                                                                                          $3,760,132                                   $4,471,634                                              18.9%
 Materials, Supplies and Services                                                                                     $343,896                                     $479,911                                              39.6%
 Utilities                                                                                                          $1,208,900                                   $1,219,298                                               0.9%
 Contract Services/Consulting/Software                                                                              $1,383,542                                   $1,850,331                                              33.7%
 Parts/Maintenance Supplies                                                                                         $1,060,905                                   $1,407,280                                              32.6%
 Special Service Contract/Misc. Charges                                                                               $112,000                                     $122,542                                               9.4%
 Debt Service                                                                                                       $6,547,947                                   $9,313,682                                              42.2%
 Interfund Transfer                                                                                                 $1,807,429                                   $1,834,448                                               1.5%


                                                           Cash Capital Project Expenses vs. Cash Available for Capital Projects by FY
                                                                         2022              2023               2024                2025                                                 2026                     2027
 Cash Capital Projects Expense by FY                                     ($4,526,323)        $6,421,945         $3,635,307         $5,130,174                                           $4,752,573                $5,520,698
 Projected Cash Available for Capital by FY                                $5,437,608        $1,591,652         $4,979,043         $5,447,168                                           $6,011,860                $3,762,957
                                                              Net          $9,963,931      ($4,830,293)         $1,343,736           $316,994                                           $1,259,287              ($1,757,741)

                                                Cash Funded Capital Project Expenses vs. Projected Cash Available for Capital by FY
        $8,000,000                                           $6,421,945
                                                                                                                                                                          $6,011,860
                                       $5,437,608                                                                            $5,130,174 $5,447,168                                             $5,520,698
        $6,000,000                                                                                      $4,979,043                                           $4,752,573
                                                                                           $3,635,307                                                                                                       $3,762,957
        $4,000,000
                                                                          $1,591,652
        $2,000,000
               $0
       ($2,000,000)
       ($4,000,000)
                        ($4,526,323)
       ($6,000,000)
                                2022                                2023                          2024                              2025                            2026                              2027

                                                            Cash Capital Projects Expense by FY                      Projected Cash Available for Capital by FY

Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                Water Fund Operations Budget
    Key Requested Operating Increases:          Goals and Major Cost Drivers
    • Supplies - $103,000                       • High Quality Sustainable Water Supply - 45%
    • Uniforms - $5,000                             • 3Kings WTP start up
    • Software /Technology - $50,000            • Reliable Water Service and Assets- 30%
    • Contract Services - $370,000                  • Asset Management
    • Materials - $30,000                           • Technology
    • Equipment - $45,000                           • Inflation
    • Chemicals - $220,000                      • Fiscally and Legally Sound Business
    • Vehicles - $233,000                        Operations - 25%
    • Utilities – approx. $200k (to adjust in       • Increasing volume of surplus water
        final budget)                                 leased to Weber Basin
Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                           Public Utilities Goals and Top 10 CIP List
   1. High Quality Sustainable Water                            Other Public Utilities Goals for
      Supply                                                    Reference
   •     MIW Treatment (3Kings)                                 3.    Fiscally and Legally Sound Business Operations
   •     Tunnel Maintenance                                     4.    Engaged, Informed, and Dynamic Workforce
   •     Rockport Water Pipeline & Storage                      5.    Responsive Customer Service and Collaboration
   •     Quinns Water Treatment Plant Asset Replacement               with Stakeholders
   •     QJWTP Treatment Upgrades (complete)                    6.    Community and Environmental Sustainability
   •     Park Meadows Well (complete)
   •     C1 – Quinns WTP to Boothill – Phase 1 (complete)

                                                            Future CIP Budget Drivers
   2. Reliable Water Service and
                                                            •        Master Plan Update
      Assets                                                •        Asset Management Program
   •     Water Dept Infrastructure Improvement              •        Lead Service Line Inventory Requirement
   •     SCADA and Telemetry System Replacement             •        Phase 2 Regional Interconnection – Hwy 224
   •     West Neck Tank                                              Pipeline




Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                                        3Kings Update
3KWTP construction continues and is on schedule. Work activities include:
• Construction Mitigation
• Construction mitigation (fencing, erosion protection, mud track off pads, etc.) are
   in place and will remain for the duration of the project.
• The pedestrian walkway adjacent to the project site and along the west side of
   Three Kings Drive will remain in place for the duration of the project. Removal is
   scheduled for the fall of this year, 2022.
• Efforts to prevent the tracking of debris off the site continue. As the season
   changes, road sweeping will be adjusted to address the changing conditions
   from mud to dust.
• As equipment and materials deliveries become more frequent, crews will make
   efforts to address traffic conflicts along Three Kings Drive.
Site Construction
• Subgrade work has been completed on all structures. One crane has been
   removed from the site.
• Building shells for seven of the eight buildings are now completed. Roofing
   materials and exterior siding installation is beginning. Stone veneer has been
   installed on three buildings and will continue on the others. Site earthwork,
   rough grading, and yard pipe work is underway. A portion of the site paving is
   scheduled for early summer.                                                          Golf Course Impacts
• Work inside the buildings will continue throughout the spring, summer, and fall.      • Golf Hole 11 will continue to be impacted during 2022.
• Construction on the last remaining building, located on the west side of the            Restoration is scheduled in late 2022/spring 2023 with the
   site, will continue through 2022                                                       hole open for play in early 2023.
Roadway Utility Work
• Utility work within Three Kings Drive has been completed and temporary pavement installed. New gutter in the vicinity of the 3KWTP and will be
  installed in the fall of 2022 and spring of 2023. Pavement resurfacing of Three Kings Drive will be performed in 2023. Landscape restoration in
  these areas, north of the 3KWTP site, will be completed by mid-May 2022.
Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                                              Top 10 Projects Over 5Y- Water Fund
                                     FY22 Budgets Among Top 10 Water Fund 5Y Projects                                                                                        FY23 Budgets Among Top 10 Water Fund 5Y Projects

                                        All other Projects,                                                                                                                        All other Projects, $1,000,000
                                        ($5,779,798), -13%                                                                                                                                      , 3%
       CP0304 Quinn's Water
    Treatment Plant Asset Repl,                                                                                                                                                                                                                        , $1,323,232 , 4%
          $220,500 , 1%                                                                                                                  CP0390 QJWTP Treatment
                                                                                                                                         Upgrades, $1,250,000 , 4%




  CP0371 C1 - Quinns WTP to
                                                                                                                                         CP0443 West Neck Tank,
 Boothill - Phase 1, $2,385,750
                                                                                                                                             $2,781,619 , 9%
              , 5%



                                                              $38.8M                                                                                                                                    $30M in
  CP0443 West Neck Tank,
      $1,250,000 , 3%
                                                              in Total                                                                  CP0007 Tunnel Maintenance,
                                                                                                                                             $1,274,570 , 4%
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total                                                     CP0040 Water Dept
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Infrastructure Improvement,


                                                              Projects                                                                                                                                  Projects
                                                                                                                CP0389 MIW Treatment,                                                                                                                               $20,094,153 , 64%
 CP0007 Tunnel Maintenance,                                                                                       $28,200,000 , 63%
       $274,750 , 1%




        CP0178 Rockport Water,
         Pipeline, and Storage,
            $4,080,796 , 9%                                                                                                                        CP0178 Rockport Water,
                                                                                                                                                    Pipeline, and Storage,
                                                                                                                                                       $3,454,863 , 11%


                               CP0040 Water Dept
                          Infrastructure Improvement,
                                 $2,396,891 , 5%


                                                                                   Top 10 Water Fund Projects Over Next 5 Years, by $
  $,                                                                                         2022 Newly                   2023 Newly                      2024 Newly                          2025 Newly                         2026 Newly                  2027 Newly
                                  Project                      Carry Forward   2022 Base                   2023 Base                      2024 Base                           2025 Base                             2026 Base                 2027 Base                          Score
 Rank                                                                                        Requested                    Requested                       Requested                           Requested                          Requested                   Requested
                                                                                                                        $
       1CP0389 MIW Treatment                                    $38,219,228    $28,200,000       0         $10,600,000                       $0            $250,000              $0            $260,000                $0         270,400         $0                 281,216                31
                                                                                                                       9,494,153
       2CP0040 Water Dept Infrastructure Improvement             $415,848      $2,395,250       1,641       $3,454,863 $              - $3,496,538             $0             $1,776,879           $0               $1,183,223       0            $0               2,000,000                40
                                                                                                                        $
       3CP0178 Rockport Water, Pipeline, and Storage             $169,876      $1,458,700     2,622,096     $1,458,700                   $1,498,200        ($140,680)         $1,391,306       ($187,763)           $1,460,871    (183,913)       $0               1,275,201                36
                                                                                                                       (184,130)
                                                                                                                        $
       4CP0007 Tunnel Maintenance                               $2,749,968      $274,750         0           $281,619                     $292,884             $0             $304,599             $0               $319,829         0            $0                 332,622                39
                                                                                                                       2,500,000
       5CP0443 West Neck Tank                                   $1,398,914     $1,250,000         0         $1,250,000 $              -      $0                $0                $0                $0                  $0            0            $0                       0                51
       6CP0390 QJWTP Treatment Upgrades                         $2,839,109         $0             0             $0      $             -      $0                $0                $0                $0                  $0            0            $0                       0                43
       7CP0343 Park meadows Well                                $2,678,908         $0             0             $0      $             -      $0                $0                $0                $0                  $0            0            $0                       0                26
       8CP0371 C1 - Quinns WTP to Boothill - Phase 1                $0         $1,110,000     1,275,750         $0      $             -      $0                $0                $0                $0                  $0            0            $0                       0                39
       9CP0304 Quinn's Water Treatment Plant Asset Repl          $691,424       $220,500          0          $231,525   $             - $238,471               $0             $245,625             $0               $252,994         0            $0                 263,114                29
        CP0301 Scada and Telemetry System                                                                               $
      10                                                            $0             $0            0              $0                           $0            $200,000              $0            $206,000                $0         212,180         $0                 218,545                24
        Replacement                                                                                                    1,000,000
Source: PCMC as of June 2022.                                                  2022 Base +
                                                                                  New
                                                                                             $38,808,687
                                                                                                           2023 Base +
                                                                                                               New
                                                                                                                          $30,086,730
                                                                                                                                        2024 Base +
                                                                                                                                            New
                                                                                                                                                          $5,835,413
                                                                                                                                                                             2025 Base +
                                                                                                                                                                                New
                                                                                                                                                                                              $3,996,646
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2026 Base +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 $3,515,584
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2027 Base +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 New
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              $4,370,698
                                           Water Rates

  Current Plan for FY23 Budget
      •     Staff requests direction to include an inflationary water rate adjustment, 3% across
            the board as part of the FY2023 Budget process on June 16, 2022

      •     In depth discussion on potential future water rates in July 2022




Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
Flagstaff Fees
                                Flagstaff Fees – Breakdown
                                                   The fees are split evenly between the
                                                   Flagstaff Mountain Master Resort
                                                   Association and Park City Municipal
                                                   (PCMC). A further equal split of the PCMC
                                                   funds is delineated between open space
                                                   and transit. The chart above indicates total
                                                   amounts collected since 2003.




Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                Flagstaff Fees – Open Space
                                    Currently, Open Space utilizes the Fee for the following programs and projects:
                                    • Annual Wildfire Mitigation Projects
                                    • Annual Noxious Weed Maintenance
                                    • Open Space Preservation including acquisition and easements
                                    • Annual Conservation Easement Monitoring costs with Summit Land Conservancy
                                    • Recreational Improvements, including trails and trailheads improvements and
                                    maintenance
                                    • Maintenance of Recreational Amenities, including restrooms, maintenance
                                    equipment such as tools and materials, trash and mutt-mitt stations and signage




Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                Flagstaff Fees – Open Space




Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
                                Flagstaff Fees – Transportation
                                         • PCMC’s free public transit service is augmented by the annual Fee to
                                           support access to the Project are via the 9 Purple Empire Pass route.
                                           Since 2019, a major portion of The Transit Management Fee has
                                           provided funding for the Purple route. Through 2021, the Fee covered
                                           the entire operational cost of the Purple route; however, due to the
                                           variability in Fee revenue, this may not always be the case.

                                         • In addition, a portion of the Fees is utilized for transportation capital
                                           projects that improve overall access to the Flagstaff Area by enhancing
                                           accessibility. Part of the Flagstaff agreement also includes maintaining
                                           use and access to the Richardson Flat Parking lot and Richardson Flat
                                           Road, and this commitment has also been maintained.

                                         • Recent capital expenditures from the Fee include traffic signal transit
                                           hardware, software at the Richardson Flat Road traffic signal, and a
                                           portion of the engineering design for the ‘Kearns high school tunnel’.

                                         • In priority order, the Fee will continue to fund the 9 Purple Empire Pass
                                           route, capital infrastructure, and software and technology that benefit
                                           the Project the project area. PCMC anticipates future capital expenses
                                           to expand transit amenities (bus stop improvements), accessibility
                                           programs, and roadway safety improvements serving the Project area.
Source: PCMC as of June 2022.
EVENT REQUESTS
 BONANZA ART PARK
EVENT PARKING RATES
                    BONANZA ART PARK
Estimated Programming Budget for Bonanza Art Park   Council Discussion:
                 Item          Estimated Cost
     Potty/ Washroom Rental            $5,000       Special Events Manager has authority to
     Trash/ Waste Management           $1,000       approve Super Minor/ Default or Event
     Programming Non Amplified
     Music, Dance/Preformance,
                                                    Programming as a Level 2 event.
     Non Profit Partners, Food
     Truck Minimum                    $26,000       Council should provide direction regarding
     Staffing (2) - Site Manager &                  level of programming desired.
     Programming Activation
     Manager                         $48,000        • Do Nothing
     Estimated Costs                 $80,000        • Super Minor/ Default
                                                    • Event Programming
 June, July and August: Passive Programming.
 Late August & September: Active Programming
 once a week with a Halloween Fest in late          If Council desires to explore a park option on a
 October.                                           more permanent basis, they should provide
                                                    direction to return at a subsequent meeting.
EVENT PARKING RATES
         Changes are based on data and balanced
         perspective. Event parking rates are a TDM tool and
         have not been increased in 5 years. Total estimated
         increase in parking revenue is estimated at $70K.

         HPCA Coordination:
         HPCA provided initial feedback, letter in
         packet and additional request for parking
         revenues (new since packet published).

         Council Questions:
         City Manager has the authority to
         implement Special Event Parking Rates.

         Council should provide direction if additional
         outreach is necessary or if they are
         supportive of the proposed changes.
                                           PARKING DATA
               2022             2021             Fri           Sat      Fri      Sat
               5-Jun   12-Jun   4-Jul   11-Jul         3-Jun      4-Jun   10-Jun  11-Jun
                                 146      125             79        116
          0
          1
                 121
                 107
                          132
                           95    113       97             66         89
                                                                              87
                                                                              62
                                                                                     140
                                                                                     117   Summary:
          2       78       74     86       76             55         70       47      86
          3       68       58     84       59             36         53       37      59   Patterns are similar across the last 5
          4       57       56     74       58             32         49       37      49
          5       56       57     74       59             32         49       37      49   years and week over week.
          6       56       57     74       62             31         48       36      49
          7       58       65     78       63             32         55       46      52
          8       73       88     82       88             37         67       87      58
          9       98      126    108      171             60         89      134      71   High parking demand reciprocates
         10      156      309    258      508            118        144      198     113
         11      363      401    583      550            209        183      242     172   intense traffic challenges in
         12      545      554    615      588            239        239      271     226
         13      559      560    547      566            282        293      299     259   neighborhoods and increases need for
         14      541      549    577      562            297        319      337     303
         15      516      528    592      534            314        352      321     300   police/enforcement.
         16      433      480    479      489            334        386      318     328
         17      326      382    358      401            332        382      314     345
         18      289      295    313      357            323        438      367     408
         19      248      243    265      322            369        446      427     424   We took a balanced approach for the
         20      175      180    222      284            444        413      412     458
         21      138      147    175      223            375        328      316     385   rates recommended based on initial
         22       92      110    144      143            279        195      195     257
         23       72       80    111       97            153        138      147     171   feedback from HPCA.
Transactions   2029     2167    2337     2226          1265      1428     1245     1510
             PARKING DATA
2021: PSSM




2022: PSSM
ANNEXATION PETITION
SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
            SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
               A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
 On October 15, 2021, Park City Municipal filed a petition to annex approximately
1,236 acres in the Quinn’s Junction area (HWY 40 & SR 248) and to zone the area
                           Recreation and Open Space:
              SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
                 A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
   The petition includes property subject to the
  Flagstaff Development Agreement (DA) which
 outlines future uses like golf, equestrian, or other
                recreational facilities.

   Section 3.1 of the Flagstaff DA contemplates
     annexing the Richardson Flat property
                   into Park City.

 The General Plan Quinn’s Junction Joint Planning
Commission Principles developed between Summit
  County and Park City identify future use of this
area as recreation and open space, consistent with
              the 1999 Flagstaff DA.
             SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
                A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N



The City leases 30 acres within the Richardson Flat
 property. 650 parking spaces are for City use and
 100 parking spaces are reserved for the property
   owner of the Montage Hotel and Empire Pass.

    The lease allows for future recreation uses.
            SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
               A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N

The petition includes the City-owned Clark Ranch
 property. In 2014, the City Council approved a
Real Estate Purchase Contract for the purchase of
 Clark Ranch with Resort Communities Tax open
                   space funds.

 The purchase included plans for a conservation
  easement and a potential for limited non-open
                  space uses.
      SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
         A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N

   The General Plan designates the area proposed for annexation
                     recreational open space.


The annexation of Richardson Flat into Park City has been envisioned
                    for more than two decades.


Annexation of the Clark Ranch property brings City-owned property
                       into City jurisdiction.
  HIDEOUT’S ATTEMPTED 2020 ANNEXATION

The petition does not overlap with Hideout’s attempted annexation. The image
  below is taken from the Town of Hideout’s protest to the City’s annexation:
   SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
      A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N

 The City evaluates 15 criteria and an annexation agreement
          when considering an annexation petition.

    The criteria and analysis are outlined in the staff report.

The presentation provides an overview of environmental quality,
      services, the General Plan, and proposed zoning.
         SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
            A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N

  On April 27, 2022, the Planning Commission conducted a work session.

On May 25, 2022, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing and
  unanimously forwarded a positive recommendation to the City Council.
             SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
                A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
                               Environmental Quality

  A portion of the Richardson Flat area is designated the Richardson Flat Tailings
                      Impoundment – Operable Unit 1 (OU1).

Some cleanup activities have been completed. For the long term, additional actions
 include restrictions on future land and groundwater use and implementation of a
                       final operations and maintenance plan.

Annexation of this area into municipal boundaries does not alter any legal liability of
              the City or of current, past, or future property owners.
          SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
             A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
                                  Services

  The area proposed to be annexed is already in the Park City Fire District,
 Park City School District, and Snyderville Basin Water Reclamation District.

  Annexation will not change solid waste or mosquito abatement services.

Animal control services will continue to be provided by Summit County Animal
     Control or Park City Public Safety based on a case-by-case basis.
            SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
               A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
                                    Services

The City will provide police, snow removal, street maintenance, planning, zoning,
              code enforcement, and trails and open space services.

                 Future services may include transit and water.
              SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
                 A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
                                         Police

In coordination with the Summit County Sheriff, Park City Police currently patrols the
   Richardson Flat parking lot. The City has cameras installed in the parking lot for
            public safety. Park City Police will continue to patrol the area.

If transit is expanded to the area, the level of service will likely increase, requiring a
                              future budget amendment.

  In 2019, the Planning Commission approved a Conditional Use Permit for Fire
 Station #39 to be constructed on the Park City Medical Campus. Construction is
   proposed to begin by 2025. A Police Substation is planned on the adjacent
                                 City-owned lot.
             SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
                A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
                     Snow Removal and Street Maintenance

             UDOT provides snow removal for HWY 40 and SR 248.

Richardson Flat Road is the only local road. A 2019 agreement between the County
   and City states the City will take over snow removal at the time of annexation.

    Upon annexation, Richardson Flat Road will become a Class C city street.
    Public works will apply for Class C funds to help finance road maintenance.
              SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
                 A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
                     Planning, Zoning, and Code Enforcement


   Any future recreation facilities or transit hubs will trigger Planning Commission
    review of a Conditional Use, subject to Recreation and Open Space Zoning.

   Summit County already approved trails under construction on the Clark Ranch
property. Upon annexation, future trail and trailhead construction and improvements
     will require administrative staff-level review by the Planning and Building
                                    Departments.
            SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
               A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
                                     Transit

The Short-Range Transit Plan and Park City Forward – Long-Range Transportation
 Plan, both in draft form and undergoing review for adoption, identify the Quinn’s
         Junction area as an important area to improve local transit and
                             multi-modal connectivity.

Improvements are already contemplated and funding for expanded services will be
                   evaluated as each project moves forward.
            SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
               A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
                                  General Plan

                  The area proposed to be annexed is part of the
              Quinn’s Junction Joint Planning Commission Principles
  outlined in the General Plan, developed in coordination with Summit County.

The General Plan identifies the area as recreational open space and envisions the
           Richardson Flat area to be developed consistent with the
    1999 Flagstaff Development Agreement, with future golf, equestrian, and
                            other recreational facilities.
            SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
               A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
                            Annexation Agreement

   A draft annexation agreement is attached as Exhibit I, outlining flood plain
management and preservation of environmentally sensitive lands, and consistency
       with the Quinn’s Junction Joint Planning Commission Principles.

 The City Council may find the circumstances of an annexation are such that the
             conditions of an annexation agreement do not apply.
           SOUTHEAST QUINN’S JUNCTION
              A N N E X AT I O N P E T I T I O N
   Staff recommends the City Council conduct a public hearing and consider
                    approving Ordinance No. 2022-18.

             The City Council may consider a motion stating that:

• the area is already subject to the Flagstaff Development Agreement and open
                           space acquisition restrictions;
 • the Council determines that under the circumstances of the annexation, the
    conditions in LMC Section 15-8-5 do not apply and no other agreement is
                                  necessary; and
          • the Council moves to approve Ordinance No. 2022-18.
 Water Quality
Program Update
History of PC Water Quality
  The Last 10-Years:
Focus on Water Quality
                  Our Approach
•   Dedicated Water Quality and Treatment Division
•   Highly qualified and engaged staff
•   Understanding of risks, causes and solutions
•   State-of-the-art treatment technologies
•   Continuous monitoring everywhere
•   Distribution system water quality management
•   Regulatory partnerships, transparency, public education
•   Source Water Protection
•   UPDES compliance and watershed characterization
    The Bottom Line
 Park City Drinking Water continues to be of superior quality.
We should all drink Park City water with confidence and pride.


                     Body Content.
                MIW Treatment
• 2014 Utah Division of Water Quality issued a Stipulated Compliance
  Order (SCO) and UPDES permits that require Park City as operator to
  treat Judge and Spiro tunnels water and meet future permit limits
• 2019 Amended SCO (ASCO)
   • By January 2024: 100% of Judge Tunnel, a portion of Spiro Tunnel
   • By January 2033: A larger portion Spiro Tunnel
   • Permits require monitoring only with future metals limits in 2033
   • Watershed characterization
• 3Kings WTP on track to provide drinking water by summer 2023
   • Will remove metals from tunnel waters and meet surface water
      treatment requirements
   • Thiriot springs blended into clearwell
02
Complex Water Treatment Plants
                      Creekside WTP
Quinns Junction WTP
Continuous Monitoring Everywhere
               • Established water quality goals for
                 treatment plants & distribution system
                   •   More stringent than regulations
                   •   Alarms & shutdowns if water quality
                       does not meet goals

               • 5-distibution analyzers monitor water
                 quality around-the-clock
                   •   pH, turbidity, chlorine residual/ORP

               • Quarterly distribution sampling at 13
                 sites throughout system

               • Daily chlorine residual monitoring

               • Stream water characterization
Distribution System Water Quality
  Actively manage metals accumulation in distribution system
      Advanced water main cleaning
           Our own scientists and industry leaders demonstrated advanced water
            main cleaning with ice pigging and foam swabbing is 100x more
            effective than unidirectional flushing
      Annual unidirectional flushing
      Corrosion control
      Tank cleaning
   Successful Ice Pigging
Contaminant                                         Prospector Dr Sample Results (mg/L)
                               Ice Pigging            Ice Pigging        Post pigging flush   EPA Limits
                           Residuals - 1st Pass   Residuals – 2nd Pass


Arsenic                           1.91                   0.087                 0.001            0.010
Lead                               110                   0.77                <0.0005            0.015
                                                                                                           Prospector Dr 1st Pass
Thallium                           131                   1.67                <0.0002            0.002




Pipe Interior Before & After Ice Pigging


                                                                                                           Prospector Dr 2nd Pass
Looking Forward:
Continued Focus on
  Water Quality
                              3Kings WTP




On Track to Provide Drinking Water to the
     Community by Summer 2023
              EPA Lead & Copper Rule
                           • 2021 rule revisions require physical inventory of service line
                             material, both the City and Homeowner side of meter, by fall 2024
                           • High level of confidence there are no lead service lines in Park City



2022          Lead           Copper
Testing       (parts per     (ppb)
Underway      billion)
EPA Action    15             1300
Level
40 homes,     <0.5-4.5       3.5-533
multifamily
residences
Proactive, Voluntary Monitoring for PFAS
                       Perfluoroalkyl and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS)
                        detected in groundwater wells
                       Yesterday EPA issued updated Health Advisories
                       Utah DDW: We are in the process of working to
                        understand what the new advisory levels mean for Utah,
                        and are committed to supporting water systems if in the
                        future action is needed.
                       Evaluating potential that fluorocarbon ski wax may be
                        responsible for low-level PFAS concentrations
                              Banned in advance of the 2022 Winter Olympics, which
                               should considerably reduce their prevalence in
                               mountain towns across the west
                              Targeted public education campaign being considered
                               regionally to limit further use and negative impacts on
                               local environment
                       Continuing to track regulatory activity, monitoring and
                        gaining an understanding of treatment options and
                        costs in case warranted at a future date
Discussion and Questions
9 Street Stairs
 th
  6-16-22 Discussion
                  OLD TOWN STAIRS HISTORY
• Very Unique – Park City platted by Developers from Michagan

    • Didn’t understand the East – West Rights of Way ran up steep hills

• The Miner’s built stairs in most of Old Town Rights of Ways to connect their
  neighborhoods

• 1982 & 1990 Main Street and Lower Park Avenue Redevelopment Agency (RDA)
  Created
    • RDA funds must be used within the Redevelopment Area.

• Main Street RDA Old Town Stairs complete.

• Lower Park Avenue RDA - 4 Blocks of City Rights of Way remain undeveloped

    • 3 Sets on 9th Street – Park to Empire
    • 1 Set on 10th Street – Empire to Lowell
                          History - Continued
•   Late 1980’s early 90’s Park City began systematic
    program to reconstruct the dilapidated stairs from
    the mining era
•   The goal was to:
     – Increase Walkability in Old Town
     – Provide Winter Pedestrian Access to Residents
        and Guests
     – Reduce Auto Pedestrian Conflict
History
1995 Old Town Stairs Inventory
GUIDING DOCUMENTS
Old Town Stairs Retreads
STAIRS COMPLETED TO DATE
AREA OF LOW SERVICE
CURRENT AREA OF REDUCED SERVICE
REDUCED SERVICE AFTER PHASE 1
           ~ 40%
REDUCED SERVICE AFTER PHASE 2
            ~ 7%
    8th Street & Crescent Tram Issues
•    Crescent Tram Walkway (ski-run) impassable in
     winter
•    Very Steep and Narrow
•    Many Driveways
•    Snow-Banks into Road – Slippery
•    Unable to Install Stairs
•    No crosswalks across Park Ave – midblock
     crossing
•    Pedestrian Auto Conflicts
8th Street – Woodside to Norfolk
8th Street – Woodside to Norfolk
8th Street - Empire & Crescent
 9th Street Right of Ways &
10th Street at Lowell-Empire


                     • Not Accessible in Winter
                     • Off street parking – back
                       into intersection
                     • 9th and Park Avenue
                       intersection in need of ADA
                       ramps and crosswalks
9th Street – Woodside & Norfolk
EXISTING STAIRS IN OLD TOWN
               Public Information - input
•   On-site In-person meeting May 4, 2022
•   Zoom meeting the evening of May 4, 2022
•   City Projects Public Open House on May 10,
    2022
* While public input has included support for all alternatives,
Public Input favors constructing 9th and 10th St Stairs
       Considerations
•   Adjacent Neighbors –
     – Stairway Connections
     – Construction Mitigation
                                                           Neighbors      Utilities    Wildlife
     – Signage
     – Landscaping
     – No Additional Lighting
•   Utilities – Coordination
•   Wildlife – Allow space for wildlife                     Bicycles    Mitigation –   Other
•   Bicycles – Provide bike rail or space for bike trail               Signage/Lands
                                                                           caping
•   Other Considerations – Operations and
    Maintenance…
  CITYTOUR 2020



TWIN FALLS, BOISE, BELLEVUE, HAILEY
      KETCHEM & SUN VALLEY
TWIN FALLS
Boomers vs. Stickers
Value-added Agriculture
BOISE
Public Art:
• Manhole covers project – tie back to our town’s history
• Utility boxes painted or wrapped
• More funding for public art & refresh /More progressive art needed
• Library/CCPC – need more color & fun
• Create “Freak Alley” where Banksy is
  Anne Frank Memorial
Connecting the community
   to the global good
BELLEVUE
 HUNGER
COALITION
CHOMPER!
Bloom/Hunger Coalition: Bellevue
• Collective space for mult-iservices/hub
• Community gathering place/Inclusive
• Collaborative/working together/not duplicating
  efforts/full service
• Community Kitchen
• Chompy: community composter
• Healthy can be affordable
• Entire place was an art center: Fun & colorful
HAILEY
 Keep it simple;
Make do with less
KETCHUM
Limelight Hotel
Culinary Institute
Culinary Institute:
• Program with the high school to support local employment/job
  training/interns
• Utilize extension campuses and create a pipeline for interns to
  feed non-profits via PC Community/Prostart program
Affordable Housing:
• Deed restrictions
• Lease only to Locals program; Prioritize essential workers
• Use private philanthropy/ Tiered pricing and nonprofit
  partner/Comprehensive/holistic collaboration
• Density: we need to take advantage of tax credit programs
• Get community alignment around affordable housing; we keep putting it off to
  SLC, Kamas, Heber, etc.
• Need for a regional housing authority
• ARCH Community Housing Trust partnership with St. Luke’s Health System/St.
  Luke’s Wood River Foundation for employee housing
• Partnership with resort & government/Sun Valley: partnerships between
  hospital, schools, and affordable housing
• Housing in Idaho is so far ahead of us: we don’t even have anyone who really
  understands all the programs.
Ketchum New City Hall
Keep it Sunny Campaign:
• Keep It Sunny Campaign in Sun Valley
• Clever & witty
• Bend, Oregon has a campaign for newcomers to learn what the local
  culture is about, and people pay to go to this in Bend.
• We need to teach people about our discourse: unite the community
• Chamber-led & Community-wide
Wood River Trail: Community Spine
SUN VALLEY
FOREST HEALTH: $10K / ACRE
       CITYTOUR TAKE-AWAYS
•Transportation District: City & County
•Enhanced Public Art
•Hunger Coalition: McPolin Farm?
•Sustainability Expo: Outdoor Retailers
•Workforce Housing: Philanthropy & Public
•Governments ‘land bank’ for housing
•Rail-Trail as Community-Building Spine
•Value-added Agriculture
• Culinary Institute: Hospitality Training Center
• Universities: Increased role for higher education
• Senior Housing / Veterans
• Quigley Canyon: Clark Ranch: combining
  affordable housing open space & bike park
• Ketchum: simple, low-cost, do-it-yourself projects,
  using city staff & volunteers
• Forest Preservation: Sun Valley; $10K/acre
• Ketchum City Hall vs Fire Station: too understated
• Internal CityTour & Leadership 101
June 8, 2022


Mayor Nann Worel
City Manager Matt Dias
Park City Municipal Corporation
PO Box 1480
Park City, UT 84060

Dear Mayor Worel & Manager Dias,

As you know, the HPCA is a robust organization that supports the community of Park City, and the historic
district businesses. It is our mission to focus on our partnership with the Park City Municipal, local businesses,
and the community, in maintaining the vibrant and dynamic experience our locals and visitors share every year.

The purpose for our letter is to request a portion of the parking revenue. Collectively, we all benefit from the
revenue generated from parking. Up until recently, the HPCA had received a portion of the revenue, which
helps maintain and support our organizations' goals. As you know, the HPCA supports the businesses in the
historic district in a variety of ways. Listed below are various ways the HPCA strives to support these goals.

   •   Develop and manage advertising programs to promote the organization as a destination. As well as create
       and execute marketing campaigns to include, but not limited to spring, fall, and early holiday shoulder
       seasons and seasonal event campaigns.
   •   Public Relations efforts including community relations, updating and implementation of comprehensive
       media database development, local, regional, and national pitching, press release generation and
       distribution.
   •   Coordinate and manage trash and recycling services for the Business Improvement District (BID) and
       work with City staff to evaluate the program,
   •   Coordinate, liaise, and negotiate with the City on issues such as code changes, infrastructure
       improvements, parking regulations, filming, events on Main Street, etc.
   •   Maintain and build relationships with all community associations such PCARA, PCALA, and Chamber.
   •   Provide communication to all the Historic Park City merchants through various channels (i.e.,
       newsletter, emails, phone calls, and door to door outreach as needed), including local event information
       that may impact the Historic Park City area


                 Historic Park City Alliance | PO Box 1348 Park City, UT 84060 | www.historicparkcityutah.com
Since 2012 the City has directed a small portion of revenue the parking revenue funds to the HPCA to offset
some of the services outlined above. However, this agreement ended in 2021. Loosing these funds has created a
huge shortfall budget for the coming year and in return will prevent us from providing the support businesses have
they have come to lean on. This support is more critical than ever as we manage the ever-changing landscape and
growth of our community. Keeping in mind that the businesses are the driving factor in creating parking revenues,
we believe that have a portion should be directed to the HPCA. The HPCA respectfully requests the City
consider directing a percentage of parking revenue annually to offset operational costs as outlined above.

We look forward to having discussions on how we can create a partnership where all are benefitting from the
parking revenue being generated.

Respectfully submitted on behalf of the HPCA Board of Directors.

Rhonda Sideris
Rhonda Sideris
HPCA Board President




                                                                                                                 2
                                     June 16, 2022



                                       VIA E-MAIL




           Nann Worel                                             Max Doilney
       Mayor, City Council                                      Council Member
            Park City                                               Park City
       445 Marsac Avenue                                       445 Marsac Avenue
       Park City, UT 84060                                     Park City, UT 84060
 Email: nann.worel@parkcity.org                         Email: max.doilney@parkcity.org

          Jeremy Rubell                                           Ryan Dickey
         Council Member                                         Council Member
             Park City                                              Park City
        445 Marsac Avenue                                     445 Marsac Avenue
        Park City, UT 84060                                   Park City, UT 84060
Email: Jeremy.rubell@parkcity.org                       Email: ryan.dickey@parkcity.org

          Becca Gerber                                              Tana Toly
         Council Member                                          Council Member
            Park City                                               Park City
       445 Marsac Avenue                                      445 Marsac Avenue
       Park City, UT 84060                                    Park City, UT 84060
Email: becca.gerber@parkcity.org                          Email: tana.toly@parkcity.org




                              9350 South 150 East Suite 900
                                   Sandy, Utah 84070
                                     (801) 563-4100
Re: Park City’s Southeast Quinn’s Annexation



Honorable Mayor and City Council Members:



        LHM DEV RIH, LLC, with its affiliate, HCAD LLC, is the owner of approximately 626 acres of land within
the proposed annexation. We have no objection to Park City annexing those portions of land owned by Park
City within the proposed annexation. In fact, we support the city annexing its own land.

       We do not agree, however, with the annexation of our property, which constitutes a majority of the real
property sought to be annexed.

      First, the city has not sought nor obtained our consent. In fact, the purported consent for our property
comes from a page signed by a city official (not any landowner of the 626 acres).

       Second, no predecessor, including United Park City Mines (UPCM), has consented to the annexation.
There was apparently an offer of annexation made some 23 years ago by UPCM; however, rather than obtain a
written signature from UPCM, as required by law, Park City has created an unsupported argument that a 23-
year-old offer to annex some portion of land entitles the city now to annex all land that was once owned by
UPCM in the area.

      The signature requirement is simple, did a landowner sign the petition to annex or not? Regarding the
proposed annexation, Park City did not obtained a signed petition from us or the prior landowner.

       Third, while there is litigation pending between the HCAD (the affiliate owning 22 of the acres included
within the annexation) and Park City, no court nor county boundary commission has weighed in or evaluated
whether Park City has obtained the required statutory signature for this annexation. Not one of these decision-
makers has been presented with or offered an opinion on these key facts.

        In short, if Park City proceeds with the annexation of RIH’s and HCAD’s property (excluding Park City’s
land), Park City will be doing so without having complied with the plain language of the Utah annexation statute,
while also ignoring the desires of the landowner, and holding itself out to the state and the public as exercising
rights beyond its authority.




                                           9350 South 150 East Suite 900
                                                Sandy, Utah 84070
                                                  (801) 563-4100
        We respectfully request that any action taken as it relates to this annexation relate only to Park City’s
owned lands, and not our property. As a final note, we are not opposed to negotiating an annexation into Park
City in the future. However, we would intend to do so as the law contemplates, through a negotiation and a
signed consent complying with the law and benefiting both parties.




                                                          Sincerely,



                                                         LHM DEV RIH, LLC


cc: Margaret Plane: margaret.plane@parkcity.org
    Matt Dias: matt.dias@parkcity.org
    Michelle Kellogg: michelle.kellogg@parkcity.org




                                          9350 South 150 East Suite 900
                                               Sandy, Utah 84070
                                                 (801) 563-4100
