PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
445 MARSAC AVENUE
PARK CITY, SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 84060

April 29, 2021

The Council of Park City, Summit County, Utah, met in open meeting on April 29, 2021,
at 2:45 p.m. The meeting was a remote, electronic meeting due to the declared public
health emergency.

Mayor Beerman read the Determination of Substantial Health and Safety Risk.

Council Member Joyce moved to close the meeting to discuss property, and litigation at
2:47 p.m. Council Member Worel seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

CLOSED SESSION

Council Member Joyce moved to adjourn from Closed Meeting at 3:25 p.m. Council
Member Gerber seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

WORK SESSION

Fourth of July Update:
Jenny Diersen, Special Events Manager, presented this item. She reviewed the
celebration events in the past and asked if Council would like fireworks and the parade
to be part of the celebration this year. She noted staff recommended allowing some
community activities such as the annual volleyball tournament, the virtual 5K race, and
Car-Free Sunday programming. She indicated Council should consider having the
parade on Sunday the Fourth or moving the parade to Friday, July 2nd, and noted if it
was moved to July 2nd, there would be cost savings and reduced traffic from Salt Lake
City. She suggested aligning with the Canyons’ celebration by having the fireworks
display on July 3rd to spread out crowds, or having it on the Deer Valley truck ramp.

Council Member Worel asked if fireworks were safe considering the draught situation.
Dave Thacker stated fireworks had proceeded in past years when there were dry
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
Page|2

conditions. Grass surrounding the fireworks area would be mowed and other
precautions were always taken to ensure safety. Council Member Doilney asked if
personal fireworks were used when the City fireworks show was not offered. Thacker
thought people would celebrate on their own if a show was not displayed. He indicated
small fireworks were often more dangerous than bigger productions.

Mayor Beerman asked how much the event cost would be reduced if fireworks were not
implemented. Diersen stated the fireworks show cost $15,000 plus some security costs.
Council Member Joyce asked if fireworks shows would be done in the Salt Lake Valley.
Diersen thought a lot of the celebrations in the valley would be held on July 3rd. Council
Member Joyce was concerned about the crowds coming from Salt Lake Valley,
especially if Park City was the only entity celebrating on July 4th. He thought the
celebration should be coordinated to take place at the same time as celebrations in
other cities. He also favored holding the parade on Friday.

Council Member Worel stated many of the residents worked on Fridays and this
celebration was geared to local residents. Council Member Gerber stated most of the
workforce worked on holidays no matter what day it fell on. She thought many people
worked from home and Friday wasn't a concern for her. Her concern was that there
weren't any children that had been vaccinated. Mayor Beerman stated residents wanted
a July 4th celebration for locals and he thought many people would be able to attend the
parade if it was held on Friday, July 2nd.

Council Member Henney thought people liked coming to Park City and would choose
the City's parade instead of their own parades held in the valley, but he agreed
attendance would be smaller on a Friday. He requested community feedback on the
parade date. Council Member Worel asked if the City wanted a parade at all this year.
Council Member Doilney stated retail and restaurants had big revenue days on July 4th
and starting the celebrations on Friday would make it even better for businesses. He
thought people would celebrate with or without the parade. Council Member Joyce did
not support having a band at City Park, and indicated on July 4th there would still be
Silly Market and Car-Free Sunday.

Council Member Gerber requested the parade be kept local and that groups from
outside Summit County not be allowed. Mayor Beerman summarized a majority of
Council favored the parade on Friday, July 2nd. Diersen stated this event would come
back to Council on May 27th for discussion on making the parade more local and would
allow time for community feedback. With regard to fireworks, the Council favored the
display in combination with the Canyons event on Saturday, July 3rd.

Song Summit Event Update:
Jenny Diersen, Special Events Manager, stated this was a new Level Four event. She
reviewed it started in 2019 as a Level Two event, gathering songwriters from across the

Park City                                 Page 2                             April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
Page|3

nation and focusing on sobriety and mental health. The organizers requested it be held
September 8-12 and they anticipated a total of 15,000 attendees. Diersen stated the
quiet weekends were controlled by Council and this event proposed to bring respite to
the community. There would be increased transportation implications. She noted this
event would come back to Council for full approval at a future meeting.

Ben Anderson, event sponsor, stated this was a unique arts and culture event. He
thought the artists and community needed to connect as the City came out of the
pandemic. Part of the event was to have labs to conduct podcasts involving poetry,
music and other art forms. He thought this event would also benefit Main Street
businesses. He noted they intentionally picked a non-busy weekend.

Julia Rametta stated her team had produced and attended events in Park City for years.
She indicated the estimated 15,000 attendees would be spread out over five days. She
knew there would be a need for transportation mitigation, and they would promote
alternate ways to attend.

Council Member Doilney thought this event fit with what Park City was looking for. The
residents would enjoy this as a local event for a couple years, but he felt it would grow
beyond local interest in the future. He was in favor of having something unique and
special.

Council Member Henney asked how the event could be contained so it wouldn't grow
too large in the future. Anderson stated he wanted to do this because it was important to
him. He really liked putting on the labs with this event, which other events couldn't offer.
He didn't see this growing on Main Street, but it could grow in the Eccles Center and
maybe at the Canyons resort. He thought too much growth would take away the
purpose of the event.

Council Member Worel thought a focus on mental health and sobriety was very needed
and unique. She asked if this would be different than a jazz fest. Anderson stated this
was different because most venues had a 75-person maximum occupancy. Performers
would also talk about the pressure of being on the road and other things that affected
them. The larger stage would be a little more like a jazz fest.

Council Member Gerber stated she had attended this event in the past and one thing
that made it special was the intimate settings. She hoped the success wouldn't change
that uniqueness and hoped the organizers would be able to manage growth. Anderson
indicated his team talked a lot about that to ensure that overgrowth did not happen.

Council Member Joyce stated this event had grown exponentially from the first year to
the second and he expressed concern about future growth as well. He asked about the
event caps. Diersen stated there was room for a couple more events due to

Park City                                 Page 3                              April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
Page|4

cancellations from other events. Council Member Joyce stated some events cancelled
because of COVID, but they might be back next year. He wanted to be careful not to
overbook events or penalize events because of their precautions during the pandemic.
He was also concerned about reducing fee waivers and thought this could be an
expensive event due to the amount of City services required. Anderson stated he did
not want a fee reduction and resolved to be a responsible event organizer. He also
clarified that the first year there were 1,000 attendees per day. This year, they added
days and planned larger events on a couple of days during the five-day event, so the
daily average attendance would not be dramatically different.

Mayor Beerman agreed with Council Member Doilney that this was the type of event
that appealed to Park City, with larger attendances at the resorts that impacted the
residents less. He hoped the event did not outgrow the City. He asked Diersen to
regroup after the event and plan for the future. Diersen stated she would come back to
Council in the fall to debrief the event and discuss long-term plans moving forward.

Discuss the Request by Fairway Village Homeowners Association for Park City to
Accept its Private Streets into the Public Road System:
The applicant asked to continue this item to a future meeting.

Park City Arts and Culture District Follow Up Discussion: Scope and Plan of
Finance:
David Everitt, Deputy City Manager, presented this item. Mayor Beerman complimented
the ability of Everitt and his team to adapt as new perspectives came to light and
Council gave different direction for this district. Everitt reviewed the requests to reduce
overall project costs, reduce housing costs per unit, offer phased plans, show a budget
without Additional Resort Sales Tax (ARST), aggressively leverage Transient Room Tax
(TRT), and identify a process regarding the City and its partners' commitments.

Everitt proposed using 75% of anticipated TRT revenues for debt service to pay a 20-
year bond of $25 million. He stated the Housing Fund would contribute $100,000 per
unit for base site elements such as parking and elevators. The Transportation Fund
would contribute $5 million and $1.25 million would come from the Walkability (WALC)
bond proceeds. Also, $5.55 million would be used from repurposing/recapturing Capital
Project funds.

Everitt reviewed the proposed scope of the project and stated there would be a shell
space for non-residential parts of the district, which would allow occupants to fill in the
space with their specific needs. The project would use more economical materials
instead of mass timber, and the artist-in-residence units would be moved to Building
One. The affordable housing units’ layout would be reconfigured to reduce costs, and
tenant improvements would be funded by tenants and an allowance from the City.


Park City                                  Page 4                              April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
Page|5

Everitt indicated the project team recommended Scenario One-eliminating Building Two
and building 28 affordable units initially. The cost would be $57.3 million, excluding land.
Building Three would be extended to the south and the corner space would be
redesigned. Outdoor interactive features would be added on the southeast corner
instead of a building. Council Member Joyce stated the original Building One had 50
housing units and asked why this plan only had 28 units. Everitt stated this plan
incorporated Phase A of housing so all the Housing Funds would not be depleted. The
second and third phases of housing could be built in the future for a total of 60 units.
The plaza experience would remain the same.

Everitt displayed Scenario Two-no housing on-site, delaying the co-op spaces, and not
constructing Building Two. The cost would be $42.4 million. Building Three would be
extended to the south and the corner space would be redesigned to access transit
directly on Bonanza. Outdoor interactive features would be added on the southeast
corner instead of a building. He stated this scenario would give the City the most
flexibility over time.

Scenario Three would be the full build out with 60 units of housing, and all cultural/artist
facilities. The cost would be $73.9 million. It would use the bulk of the housing funds
and there would be 50,000 square feet of creative and cultural space. There would be
no funding gap, but less funds would be available for tenant improvements and other
enhancements.

Council Member Gerber asked if the cost of Building Three would increase if Building
Two was removed. Everitt stated Building Two was the most expensive building in the
plan. He noted some of the excess funds could cover the costs for Building Three if the
Transit Center was moved.

Council Member Worel asked how the Transportation Fund could be used if the Transit
Center was removed and only a couple of transit stops were added. Everitt stated the
Transportation Fund could fund all types of transportation including walkability.

Council Member Joyce thought there would be a flexible space for future use if Building
Two was removed. He didn't think there was value with the Transit Center/Building Two
since it would not be a hub. He suggested leaving Building Three where it was planned
and not constructing Building Two. Everitt indicated Building Three would have
extended awnings or other options that added to the Transit stops. He understood there
should not be impediments to the Building Two pad so the space could be used in the
future for other things.

Council Member Gerber stated the City required affordable housing to be completed
before other improvements could be developed with private developments. She thought
affordable housing should be built out with this project. She favored having housing at

Park City                                  Page 5                              April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
Page|6

the Arts and Culture District as well as the Homestake parcel. Council Member Doilney
stated he had a $60 million project limit for this project and suggested phasing, but
wanted to include 16 extra housing units on one side of Building One in Phase A. He
was pleased to see the value engineering and these new proposals.

Council Member Worel asked what the City would not be able to do if it went with the
$57 million option. Council Member Joyce liked that the ARST was left out of the
funding options. He felt Kimball Art Center and Sundance were bringing the arts and
culture part to the district and indicated the City's part of the development was the
infrastructure and Building One with housing and artist spaces. Building Four with food
was the next priority and Buildings Two and Three were the last priorities. He suggested
constructing Building One with all the housing and Building Four and leave the spaces
for Buildings Two and Three for future use. He did not favor building a shell without
knowing what would go in there.

Council Member Henney stated the Council now had components to work with. He
asked for numbers on the housing so he could see the revenue at 60% AMI. He also
asked for more information on the food building. He liked the idea of local businesses
coming into the proposed buildings. Mayor Beerman asked if Homestake housing was
still more affordable than housing at the Arts and Culture District. Everitt stated the Arts
and Culture District housing was more on par with the Homestake housing cost per unit
and indicated the per unit cost for the first 28 was $460,000 per unit, but for 44 units the
cost would be $420,000 per unit and constructing all 60 units would cost $400,000 per
unit. The site costs and value engineering enabled him to bring down the costs. Council
Member Joyce asked if any money would be left in the Housing Fund for other projects
in this scenario. He stated the housing pipeline was from RDA money, so it could only
be used for housing. He thought TRT money was more flexible and he suggested using
the money saved from not constructing Building Three to construct the extra 32 housing
units.

In response to Council Member Worel's question about opportunity costs, Everitt stated
he was looking at long-term Transportation Fund projects and noted the fund was
healthy, so using the proposed funds for the district would not impact it detrimentally. By
not using the ARST, there would be significant funds available for other projects. Dias
stated the next Council meeting would discuss the tentative budget, including
Transportation funds and Walkability projects. Staff recommended Scenario One so
money would be available for other projects. He indicated transportation and walkability
investments were needed in this area.

Council Member Worel thought the City had previously indicated it did not want to
subsidize affordable units more than 20%, and asked how much the City would
subsidize on these affordable rental units.


Park City                                  Page 6                             April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
Page|7

Mayor Beerman summarized Council was interested Scenario One and Council
Member Doilney’s suggestion for 16 extra housing units for $64 million. There was also
interest in Scenario Three with the omission of Building Two for $66 million and possibly
omitting Building Three as well. He agreed housing should not subsidize the
infrastructure cost and wanted to see that model. Council Member Henney wanted to
look more closely at both scenarios. He wanted to know more about revenue streams
and if that was now gone or if the units would be 100% AMI. Everitt stated setting the
AMI % for the rental units was Council's decision, and they could prioritize revenue or
AMI. Council Member Doilney stated he liked Council Member Joyce’s Scenario Three
without Buildings Two and Three and with all 60 housing units for $57 million. Council
Member Gerber liked that scenario too. She wanted a future discussion on community
building and favored meshing lower and higher AMIs.

Mayor Beerman stated the full buildout of housing would get the cost per unit down to
$405,000 per unit, which would be very favorable. He didn't want to discount the shell
spaces though, since many businesses and non-profits expressed interest in coming
into this area.

REGULAR MEETING

I)     ROLL CALL

      Attendee Name                                          Status
      Mayor Andy Beerman
      Council Member Max Doilney
      Council Member Becca Gerber
      Council Member Tim Henney
                                                             Present via
      Council Member Steve Joyce
                                                             technology
      Council Member Nann Worel
      Matt Dias, City Manager
      Margaret Plane, Special Counsel
      Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder
      None                                                   Excused

II)    RECOGNITION

1. Consideration to Adopt Resolution 07-2021, a Resolution Acknowledging the
Legacy of Adolph's Restaurant - A Ski Town's Host:
Michelle Downard, Resident Advocate, was joined by Adolph Imboden. She indicated
the City was honoring Adolph's Restaurant and its founding owner as he closed his
doors after many years of building community and serving locals and tourists. Imboden
stated business was busy, but he was anxious to get on his bike. He thanked all who


 Park City                               Page 7                             April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
Page|8

supported him over the years and noted he had been in Park City since 1971. Council
Member Henney remarked that Adolf's supported the community over the years and the
community appreciated him.

Mayor Beerman opened the meeting for public input.

DR Theobald via Zoom stated Adolph was a stalwart in the community. He used to live
above Adolph's first restaurant and conducted phone meetings from Adolph's bar.
Imboden provided a place for friends to gather and he wished Adolph luck in the future.

Alyson Badami and family via Zoom thanked Imboden for everything he did for the
skiing community and the ski racers.

Kran via Zoom thanked Council for recognizing Adolph's. He thanked Imboden for his
friendship.

Mayor Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting and expressed
appreciation for all Imboden had done in the community.

Council Member Henney moved to adopt Resolution 07-2021, a resolution
acknowledging the legacy of Adolph's Restaurant - a ski town's host. Council Member
Doilney seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

III) APPOINTMENTS

1. Reappointment of Sarah Hall and the Appointment of William Johnson to the
Planning Commission with Terms Expiring July 2024:
Michelle Downard presented this item and stated this was a request to appoint the
above nominees to the Planning Commission. Mayor Beerman stated there were many
good applicants for these positions.

Council Member Gerber moved to reappoint Sarah Hall and appoint William Johnson to
the Planning Commission with terms expiring July 2024. Council Member Henney
seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

IV)   COMMUNICATIONS AND DISCLOSURES FROM COUNCIL AND STAFF


Park City                                Page 8                            April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
Page|9

Council Questions and Comments:
Council Member Doilney stated he had confidence in those serving on Council and
Planning Commission and thought they served the community with all they had. He
appreciated the opportunity he had to serve the community. Council Member Worel
reminded the public that May was Mental Health Awareness Month. She encouraged
people to apply to serve on the Library Board. Council Member Joyce stated the new
Snyderville Basin Water Treatment Plant was finished, and because of the population
growth, they were starting to plan an enhancement to the East Canyon Creek Sewer
District.

Council Member Henney looked forward to the Council retreat and discussing protocols.
He stated the next Coffee with Council would involve a discussion with the LGBTQ+
community. Council Member Gerber indicated the Historic Park City Alliance (HPCA)
interviewed organizations to help with their visioning process. It was Earth Week last
week and Recycle Utah had a hazmat event. She also indicated she enjoyed the
Housing Update staff communication and commended staff on the housing projects.

Mayor Beerman asked Council Member Henney if he wanted to have an auto response
to community emails instead of having to respond to hundreds of emails. Council
Member Henney favored the auto response and thought there should be a discussion at
the Council retreat on more in-depth responses. He indicated he would still respond to
questions. The Council members thanked Council Member Henney for his diligence in
responding to the numerous emails.

Mayor Beerman indicated he met with Representative Moore and requested Federal
funds for Bonanza Park as well as Summit County bus rapid transit (BRT). He was
reappointed to the State Quality Growth Commission, which dealt with statewide issues
based on growth and open space. He attended the Utah League of Cities and Towns
(ULCT) conference in St. George and met with the resort towns in the State. They
discussed the last legislative session and the one-size-fits-all legislation. The group
wanted to meet monthly and bring things to the State proactively. He stated a Council
member could represent Park City at these upcoming meetings. Mayor Beerman also
noted the Colorado Association of Ski Towns (CAST) was coming to Park City October
21-23 and he asked Council to save the date.

Staff Communications Reports:
Mayor Beerman complimented staff for the excellent updates.

1. Public Art Update:

2. FY2021 Distinguished Budget Award and March 2021 Budget Report:

3. Affordable Housing Projects Update:

Park City                                Page 9                           April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 10

4. Water Conservation and Drought Update:

5. Social Equity Quarterly Update:

V)   PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON
THE AGENDA)

Mayor Beerman opened the meeting for anyone who wished to comment or submit
comments to the Council on items not included on the agenda.

Deanna Rhodes, Summit County Connect Executive Director, via Zoom read the
following statement: “Summit County resident Julie* called CONNECT Summit County’s
Peer Navigation Services the same day the Summit County Health Department issued
its stay-at-home order⎯desperate for help contacting her son Nate, who had been
admitted to a psychiatric facility in Salt Lake City just days before. Because of lockdown
orders put in place to safeguard the public against COVID-19, the facility prevented
Julie from visiting her son, and she was also having difficulty getting messages to him.
Her fear and frustration were overwhelming but CONNECT Summit County’s Peer
Navigator was able to coach Julie on how to get in touch with her son and to advocate
for him at the facility. Julie is not alone in her fear and frustration. Here in Summit
County and around the world, COVID-19 has upended life as we knew it. Many people
were suddenly faced with the realities of loss of income and health insurance, food
insecurity, serious illness, school closures, social isolation, and disruption of routines.
These serious issues have caused a widespread spike in anxiety, fear, depression, and
grief⎯the perfect storm for an unprecedented mental health crisis whose repercussions
will last months and perhaps even years to come. More than ever, people need
direction and resources for mental health, as well as encouragement to speak up about
mental illness and to seek help.

According to Kaiser Family Foundation, the COVID-19 pandemic has created national
challenges related to mental health, with nearly 45% of adults in the United States
reporting that their mental health has worsened since the start of the pandemic
response in March 2020. Park City is no exception to these impacts. In 2020,
CONNECT Summit County provided 237 community resources to 72 people seeking
support. Nine of these encounters were in Spanish. This year, CONNECT Summit
County, with the support of many other community organizations, is continuing to
normalize the conversation surrounding mental health by recognizing Mental Health
Awareness Month. We will be back to address the Council on May 13th with hopes of
passing a proclamation of once again declaring that May is Mental Health Awareness
Month and the significance that holds. CONNECT Summit County is proud to host
Mental Health Awareness Month. In these extraordinary circumstances, dissolving the
stigma associated with mental illness is critical, because that stigma often prevents
individuals from seeking help. Since its establishment in 2016, CONNECT Summit

Park City                                 Page 10                            April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 11

County has focused on mental health awareness and education. Our mission—to create
a well-informed and stigma-free community with access to mental health resources for
everyone—has perhaps never been more relevant than it is now. The official calendar
has virtual and in-person events, social media campaigns, and grassroots activities
during the entire month of May. For the first time ever, we are also hosting a 21-Day
Mental Health Awareness Challenge. Visit CONNECTSummitCounty.org/MAY for all
up-to-date details and to RSVP. Thank you for your continued support of mental health
in our community and recognizing the importance of publicly acknowledging the
challenges that individuals face. We hope that you will join us during the month of May
and consider sharing your personal stories of mental health to normalize the
conversation.”

Ed Parigian via Zoom indicated he was grateful the Council was reimaging the Arts and
Culture District. He encouraged more discussion. He thought a space to the recycle
center could be created instead of a road. He also asked to see a revenue model for the
project. Council Member Joyce stated a rental revenue analysis was calculated and a
new analysis would be performed based on the new scenarios. Mayor Beerman stated
a promenade was being created, not a road, and it would be a multi-use road that might
run all the way to Park Avenue.

Angela Moschetta via Zoom, indicated she heard a discussion on a toxic soil repository
at the Gordo site for toxic soils from the Arts and Culture District. She researched
Council discussions regarding the site and found that discussions started last summer.
She felt that the soils repository was a big part of the project and the community had not
been involved. She requested to extend the public input period for the site. Mayor
Beerman related a soils commission was formed five or six years ago at the
recommendation of the community and this was not a new topic. Dias stated the
community hearing that was held recently was an effort to reach the public. It was
always a community goal to not put Park City’s debris in other communities. The City
always tried to be transparent in its business. Council Member Worel asked who
imposed the May 4th deadline for public input. Dias stated it was an Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) comment period and he would ask the if the comment period
could be extended.

Council Member Joyce stated soil would be put there and when the repository was full,
it would then be capped off, and the property could be developed. It was safe and much
less expensive than any other option.

Ken Lott eComment: “I’m writing in opposition to the excessive noise emitted from
modified engine and muffler vehicles that drive around Park City. Having lived here
since 2007, I have noticed an increase in the number of these types of vehicles in our
community. I live in Park City for the peacefulness of the mountains and appreciate the
tranquil outdoors. Undoubtedly, there are numerous others that feel the same way. Our

Park City                                Page 11                            April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 12

community is growing and as more people and vehicles move to the area, they add to
the overall level of noise in Park City. I’m concerned that we are diminishing the
tranquility of why so many people enjoy Park City. Productive Noise that benefits the
community, as the inevitability of a growing community, is capable of being understood
by all. • Construction vehicles • Snow Making and Moving equipment • Garbage trucks •
Busses • UPS trucks • Landscapers • Even Dogs, because they’re Dogs! But
Unproductive Noise, noise with no overarching community benefit, does harm to Park
City. Noise for the sake of noise, produced by a few individuals with their excessively
loud modified engine and muffler vehicles, should not have to be endured by the overall
citizenry in Park City. As a condition, the vehicles could be temporarily un-modified to
meet municipal standards. I would propose that the Park City Council work with City
Hall to create a straightforward overlay of the very thorough, but difficult to understand,
Municipal Code (6-3 Noise). Doing so will help our community better understand the
noise we encounter and what the real-world expectations should be for such noise. My
desired outcome would be a better understanding of the tolerance of noise in our
community and that the Park City Council put a Stop to Unproductive Noise in city limits.
Specifically, noise for the sake of noise, such as, modified engine and muffler vehicles
within city limits of Park City, Utah.”

Mayor Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting.

VI)    CONSIDERATION OF MINUTES

Consideration to Approve the City Council Meeting Minutes from April 15, 2021:
Mayor Beerman referred to Page Four, Line 15, and requested the word “labor” replace
“manhours.”

Council Member Doilney moved to approve the City Council meeting minutes from April
15, 2021 as amended. Council Member Worel seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

VII) CONSENT AGENDA

1. Request to Accept a Donation of a Mixed Media Painting on Behalf of Artist
Nancy Scheibe to the Public Art Collection in an Art Agreement Approved by the
City Attorney:

2. Request to Appropriate $25,000 for Spring 2021 Wildfire Mitigation Efforts:

Council Member Doilney moved to approve the Consent Agenda. Council Member
Gerber seconded the motion.

Park City                                Page 12                             April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 13


RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

VIII) OLD BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Adopt Resolution 08-2021, a Resolution Approving the
Refinancing by Park City, Utah of a Training and Office Facility and Related
Improvements for the Center of Excellence Properties, LLC; Authorizing the
Issuance by the Issuer of its Not to Exceed $16,500,000 Industrial Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2021 (United States Ski and Snowboard Association);
and Related Matters:
Mindy Finlinson, Finance Manager, and Randy Larsen, Gillmor Bell, were present for
this item. Finlinson reviewed the process of facilitating the bonding process for
nonprofits in order to save them money, and recommended that Council adopt the
resolution finalizing the issuance of bonds.

Mayor Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Mayor Beerman
closed the public hearing.

Council Member Gerber moved to adopt Resolution 08-2021, a resolution approving the
refinancing by Park City, Utah of a training and office facility and related improvements
for the Center of Excellence Properties, LLC; authorizing the issuance by the issuer of
its not to exceed $16,500,000 Industrial Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2021
(United States Ski and Snowboard Association); and related matters. Council Member
Joyce seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

2. Park Avenue Redesign Pilot Program Update:
Linda Jager, Community Engagement Manager, Johnny Wasden, Parking Manager,
and John Robertson, City Engineer, presented this item. Robertson reviewed the
progress on this project and explained there would be a parking lane on one side of the
road with a bike lane next to it. There would be a sharrow with no parking on the
opposite side of the street. Wasden stated he looked to see what the parking impacts
would be to this street and noted 60 vehicles would need parking. He concluded with
that number of vehicles, there would be ample space for parking.

Jager stated there was public outreach in the fall and there would be additional outreach
next week. The striping work would begin May 12th. Dias stated the City was being bold
in changing the streetscape and adding timed parking. He cautioned that public parking


Park City                                Page 13                            April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 14

was being eliminated and that could be hard for some people. He reiterated this was a
pilot program and he welcomed public feedback after the striping.

Mayor Beerman opened the meeting for public input. No comments were given. Mayor
Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting and stated he used this portion
of Park Avenue on a daily basis and he looked forward to trying the new configuration.

IX)    NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Adopt Resolution 06-2021, a Resolution Allowing All Park City
Municipal Public Bodies to Hold Electronic Meetings:
Margaret Plane, Special Counsel, indicated this resolution would allow all City boards
and commissions to hold electronic meetings. Currently, Park City code only allowed
the City Council and Planning Commission to hold electronic meetings unless there was
a declared emergency. She wanted to extend the status quo for six months. Preliminary
feedback from staff was that boards liked the flexibility of having electronic meetings.

Council Member Henney clarified it was Park City's code that required a declared
emergency to hold electronic meetings, and asked if that was the reason the City was
looking to change the language to allow those electronic meetings at any time. Plane
affirmed that State law said a city could only hold electronic meetings if the public body
passed a rule, resolution, or ordinance allowing electronic meetings. The proposal was
to pass the resolution to continue the status quo and then Council could give direction
on a permanent solution for electronic meetings. Mayor Beerman thought the Council
would like a policy change to allow hybrid meetings in the future. Plane indicated she
would work on that.

Mayor Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Mayor Beerman
closed the public hearing.

Council Member Doilney moved to adopt Resolution 06-2021, a resolution allowing all
Park City Municipal public bodies to hold electronic meetings. Council Member Worel
seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

2. Consideration of the Park City Baseball Event Appeal of Peak Times:
Jenny Diersen, Special Events Manager, stated the Park City Baseball Club was
appealing staff's denial of having the event during a peak time. She reviewed this was a
Level Two event and had minor impacts. The event was held at the high school and at
Quinn's Junction. Last year, staff approved a one-time event date change to June. This
year, the applicant asked to hold the event during Savor the Summit event, which was a

Park City                                 Page 14                            April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 15

peak time. She indicated this event didn't meet one of the exceptions to hold an event
during a peak time. Staff was working hard to find a balance for the community and
denied the request for the peak time event date.

Jennifer Schmidt, Park City Baseball Club President, urged Council to approve the Park
City Baseball Invitational (PCBI) on June 24-26. There was good cause to support the
community baseball program and its fundraising efforts. She noted they would be
limiting spectators at the events. She also proposed alternate dates of July 8-10, if their
first choice was unacceptable. She indicated staff was hesitant to approve the second
choice because of the quick turnaround in games, and indicated if the alternate dates
were approved, they would contribute volunteers to help with field cleanup. She noted
this was a fundraising event to help the 12-year-old teams.

Council Member Gerber asked why those two dates were the only two options. Schmidt
stated there were eight teams and they chose other tournaments on other weeks so that
limited the weekends where all teams were available. Council Member Worel asked
about the diversity of the teams. Schmidt stated there were Salt Lake City teams, some
Colorado teams, and Utah County teams. Council Member Worel asked more
specifically about the ethnic diversity of local teams. Schmidt stated there were
Solomon Fund scholarships given to children who would benefit from them. There were
currently male and female ball players in the club.

Council Member Doilney asked why the County ballfields were not an option. Schmidt
stated she hadn't reached out to the County because they wanted to keep it local and
small.

Mayor Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Mayor Beerman
closed the public hearing.

Council Member Joyce stated Council had deep discussions on events a few years ago,
in response to community feedback. Blackout dates were created and he wanted to
respect that commitment to the community. He suggested she book next year on an
available date. Schmidt requested that Council consider July 8-10. Diersen stated
Council's decision was only on the appeal.

Council Member Doilney stated he supported Triple Crown from an economic
perspective. He agreed with Council Member Joyce on making exceptions on blackout
dates and stated he could not support this appeal. Council Member Gerber did not
support the appeal and requested they work with staff for future dates.

Council Member Worel moved to deny the Park City Baseball event appeal of peak
times. Council Member Doilney seconded the motion.


Park City                                 Page 15                            April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 16


RESULT: DENIAL OF APPEAL
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

3. Consideration to Approve the Park Silly Sunday Market (PSSM) Supplemental
Plan:
Jenny Diersen, Special Events Manager, and Kate McChesney, PSSM Executive
Director, presented this item. Diersen noted the changes in the contract, including noise
reduction, bollard installation by market personnel, and no vendor parking on Park
Avenue. The market dates would be June 6-September 26, with no events on August 1,
8, or 15. She indicated there would be high COVID protocols regarding masks,
reduction of booths during the first four weeks, a QR code for contact tracing, and other
COVID mitigation related efforts. City services fees were estimated at $84,500 and
PSSM would owe the City $10,300 at the end of the season. Diersen requested two
Council liaisons for the PSSM working group. McChesney thanked Council and was
confident that her team could put on a safe event this summer.

Mayor Beerman opened the meeting for public input. No comments were given. Mayor
Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting.

Council Member Joyce volunteered to be a liaison for this event. He thought the COVID
protocols were good, but he had concerns. He noted the CDC thought outdoor events
were safe. He felt the key to success was being flexible. McChesney indicated they
would have frequent check-ins with the health department and the City in order to be
flexible.

Council Member Henney volunteered to be a liaison as well. Council Member Gerber
stated 45 booths would be reduced for the first four weeks and asked what would
happen after that. McChesney stated it was a wait-and-see game and plans would be
adjusted depending on the circumstances. She appreciated having Car-Free Main
Street Sundays so the market could be spread out across nine blocks instead of three.

Council Member Worel was happy that PSSM was collaborating with the Latino Arts
Festival and felt the residents were getting two events in one. McChesney noted that
would be held on June 20th. Council Member Joyce referred to the past parking
problems associated with this event and indicated parking prices were used as a
control. He thought people might be hesitant to take transit because of COVID, and he
thought parking would be a concern. He asked if there should be a higher charge for
parking to curb that demand. Diersen stated the recommendation was to leave the 2019
rates for a couple weeks and monitor the demand before returning to Council with an
amendment. Council Member Joyce encouraged staff to tee up an expectation that the
capacity would be full. Diersen indicated she would be attending a meeting with HPCA
representatives and this topic would be brought up. She stated last year during Car-

Park City                                Page 16                            April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 17

Free Sundays there was not paid parking and there were no parking problems. She
hoped visitors would look at alternate modes of transportation. Council Member Henney
stated Diersen should plan for dynamic pricing for parking instead of an amendment to
the supplemental plan.

Council Member Joyce moved to approve the Park Silly Sunday Market Supplemental
Plan with the amendment that Council will consider updating parking prices on a regular
basis throughout the summer, and that Steve Joyce and Tim Henney will serve as the
Council liaison appointments. Council Member Worel seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

4. Consideration to Approve Ordinance 2021-18, an Ordinance Amending the
Land Management Code § 15-6.1-3, Zoning Districts and Uses; § 15-6.1-6, Density;
§ 15-6.1-7, Setbacks; § 15-6.1-8, Building Height and Facades; § 15-6.1-9, Parking -
to Allow Affordable Master Planned Developments (AMPD) in the Historic
Commercial Business and Historic Recreation Commercial Zoning Districts:
Rebecca Ward, Land Use Planner, presented this item. She reviewed the code
amendments over the past few years were an effort to reach the City's affordable
housing goals. This amendment would allow Affordable Master Planned Developments
(AMPD) in non-residential historic districts. The Historic Preservation Board (HPB) also
recommended allowing affordable employee accessory units within non-residential
uses, incentives to preserve historic footprints for more affordable historic single family
dwellings, workforce housing units in Old Town that would allow for shared living and
kitchen spaces, and incentives to attract car-free tenants.

She noted the AMPD in the Historic Commercial Business (HCB) District must comply
with the zoning requirements of setbacks, building volume and height, floor area ratio,
restrictions for properties that extended from Main Street to Swede Alley, and parking.
An AMPD in the HRC zone would be eligible for incentives, such as additional height
extensions with a 10-foot setback, up to 45 feet and the ability to request parking
reductions.

Ward indicated AMPDs would be prohibited in the Historic Recreation Commercial
(HRC) District adjacent to the HR-1 zone to serve as a buffer between the HRC and the
HR-1 zones. She thought carving out the properties on the west side of Park Avenue
would be a buffer between the higher density and greater heights area and residential
areas.

Council Member Worel asked what would trigger parking exceptions that were granted
by the Planning Commission returning to them for reconsideration. Ward stated a few
permits required reevaluation if there were community complaints. Council Member

Park City                                Page 17                             April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 18

Worel was concerned that the burden of enforcement was placed on the neighbors and
she thought it would be good to put a solution in the code language if possible.

Mayor Beerman asked if the zone included China Bridge and Sandridge Lot. Ward
stated the Planning Commission recommended looking into expanding this to those
areas. Currently, no residential uses were allowed in those areas. Staff needed more
time to evaluate what the parameters might look like so it would fit into the adjacent
zones, i.e., where the HCB zone was located and the buffers in place, they would look
at what the buffers would look like to those extended parking areas. Mayor Beerman
was hopeful code language could be developed because those were the areas where
the most AMPDs could be developed.

Mayor Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Mayor Beerman
closed the public hearing.

Council Member Worel moved to approve Ordinance 2021-18, an ordinance amending
the Land Management Code § 15-6.1-3, Zoning Districts and Uses; § 15-6.1-6, Density;
§ 15-6.1-7, Setbacks; § 15-6.1-8, Building Height and Facades; § 15-6.1-9, Parking - to
allow Affordable Master Planned Developments (AMPD) in the Historic Commercial
Business and Historic Recreation Commercial Zoning Districts. Council Member Gerber
seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

5. Consideration to Approve Ordinance 2021-19, an Ordinance Approving the
Northstar Subdivision Lot 2 & 3 Lot Line Adjustment, Located at 1049 and 1025
Lowell Avenue, Park City, Utah:
Brendan Conboy, Senior Planner, presented this item. He indicated this was a lot line
adjustment to accommodate a garage. There were conditions to bring a teepee
structure into compliance, to make the shared driveway beneficial to both lots, and to
allow access only from Lowell Avenue.

Council Member Worel asked how long the teepee structure could be up and how would
the City know somebody had a teepee. Conboy stated the teepee structure was allowed
to be set up for a maximum of 180 days per year. There was no permit for a teepee,
but the City would know if it wasn’t in compliance from complaints.

Mayor Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Mayor Beerman
closed the public hearing.




Park City                               Page 18                            April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 19

Council Member Joyce moved to approve Ordinance 2021-19, an ordinance approving
the Northstar Subdivision Lot 2 & 3 Lot Line Adjustment, located at 1049 and 1025
Lowell Avenue, Park City, Utah. Council Member Worel seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

6. Consideration to Approve Ordinance 2021-20, an Ordinance Approving the Lot
2 Willow Ranch Replat, First Amended, Located at 2750 Meadow Creek Drive,
Park City, Utah:
Brendan Conboy, Senior Planner, presented this item and stated the applicant
requested to move some of the home square footage to the barn to stay in allowed
maximum square footage limits.

Council Member Joyce was concerned about the new height for the barn in relation to
the square footage, and thought the actual square footage of the barn should be
determined. Some of the Council thought there were many unanswered questions with
this request.

Jerry Hall, applicant, stated he was trying to solve this issue that was created years ago.
He thought 400-600 square feet would be shifted from the home to the barn. He hoped
for Council approval before the demolition began because he was afraid of completing
the demolition phase and then not being able to get approval. The current house had a
steep pitched roof and he wanted the barn’s roof to match. Council Member Joyce
asked if Hall understood that the barn could not be a dwelling, to which Hall affirmed.
Council Member Henney stated Hall requested to go back to the original plat with the
original conditions and he supported that. Hall noted the conditions stated the Certificate
of Occupancy had to be received on the house before they could start on the barn.

Mayor Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Mayor Beerman
closed the public hearing.

Council Member Worel asked what process the HOA went through before they
supported this amendment. Hall indicated he had to discuss it with the other owners in
the HOA and it was not a difficult process.

Council Member Joyce moved to approve Ordinance 2021-20, an ordinance approving
the Lot 2 Willow Ranch Replat, First Amended, located at 2750 Meadow Creek Drive,
Park City, Utah. Council Member Henney seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Council Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel



Park City                                Page 19                             April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 20

X)     ADJOURNMENT

XI)    PARK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY MEETING

I)     ROLL CALL

      Attendee Name                                         Status
      Chair Andy Beerman
      Board Member Max Doilney
      Board Member Becca Gerber
      Board Member Tim Henney
                                                            Present via
      Board Member Steve Joyce
                                                            technology
      Board Member Nann Worel
      Matt Dias, Executive Director
      Margaret Plane, Special Counsel
      Michelle Kellogg, Secretary
      None                                                  Excused

II)  PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON
THE AGENDA)

Chair Beerman opened the meeting for anyone who wished to comment or submit
comments to the Board on items not included on the agenda. No comments were given.
Chair Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting.

III) NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Approve the PEG Development Affordable Housing Mitigation
Plan in Fulfillment of the Affordable Housing Obligation Generated by the Park
City Mountain Base Area Development Project:
Jason Glidden, Housing Manager, and Nick Blayden and Kristin Williams from PEG
Development, presented this item. Glidden reviewed the history of the development and
the associated affordable housing requirement for this development. PEG proposed to
amend the housing mitigation plan and meet the outstanding requirements. He stated
the rental rates for the dorm style units were not consistent with City requirements and
would be recalculated to be in compliance. All sales prices would be in compliance with
the housing resolution at or below 80% Area Median Income (AMI). PEG would also
submit a letter of credit in the amount of $2,598,000 for the completion of 23 beds that
needed to be built.

Chair Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Chair Beerman
closed the public hearing.


Park City                               Page 20                            April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 21

Board Member Joyce moved to approve the PEG Development Affordable Housing
Mitigation Plan in fulfillment of the affordable housing obligation generated by the Park
City Mountain Base Area Development Project. Board Member Henney seconded the
motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Board Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

IV)    ADJOURNMENT

XII) PARK CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEETING

I)     ROLL CALL

      Attendee Name                                           Status
      Chair Andy Beerman
      Board Member Max Doilney
      Board Member Becca Gerber
      Board Member Tim Henney
                                                              Present via
      Board Member Steve Joyce
                                                              technology
      Board Member Nann Worel
      Matt Dias, Executive Director
      Margaret Plane, Special Counsel
      Michelle Kellogg, Secretary
      None                                                    Excused

II)  PUBLIC INPUT (ANY MATTER OF CITY BUSINESS NOT SCHEDULED ON
THE AGENDA)

Chair Beerman opened the meeting for anyone who wished to comment or submit
comments to the Board on items not included on the agenda. No comments were given.
Chair Beerman closed the public input portion of the meeting.

III) NEW BUSINESS

1. Consideration to Approve an Economic Development Grant Contract for
$20,000 for Offset Bier LLC in a Form Approved by the City Attorney:
Jonathan Weidenhamer, Economic Development Manager, and Conor Brown with
Offset Bier, presented this item. Weidenhamer stated the applicant met all the
requirements for this grant.




Park City                                Page 21                             April 29, 2021
PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
April 29, 2021
P a g e | 22

Brown stated he lived in Park City for 15 years. He was a ski racer and moved here
from Vermont. He was excited to open the brewery and connect with the community. He
noted his dad and grandfather were small business owners and now he had the
opportunity to be a small business owner as well.

Chair Beerman opened the public hearing. No comments were given. Chair Beerman
closed the public hearing.

Board Member Doilney moved to approve an economic development grant contract for
$20,000 for Offset Bier LLC in a form approved by the City Attorney. Board Member
Worel seconded the motion.
RESULT: APPROVED
AYES: Board Members Doilney, Gerber, Henney, Joyce, and Worel

IV)   ADJOURNMENT

With no further business, the meeting was adjourned.

                                                       _________________________
                                                       Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder




Park City                              Page 22                           April 29, 2021
Park City Arts and Culture District
          Council Work Session – April 29, 2021
                 Recent council work sessions
July 9, 2020 – Preliminary construction cost estimates & cash flow model
December 15, 2020 – Revised cost estimates & proposed phasing plan
for City-owned District elements
January 7, 2021 – District housing, transportation, and costs
January 21, 2021 – District transportation infrastructure
February 4, 2021 – District housing
February 25, 2021 – Revised plan of finance
March 31, 2021 – Public hearing
April 1, 2020 – Next steps brief discussion
       Feedback we heard on scope and budget

• Reduce project costs overall
• Bring down the housing cost per unit
• Prepare additional scope options + phasing
• Show a budget that doesn’t use ARCST
• Consider more aggressively leveraging TRT
• Identify a process and deliverables regarding City and Partners’
  commitments
City Facilities
Building 1 Creative Spaces
Housing Phasing
                                    Funding
No use of ARCST
Use 75% of anticipated TRT revenues for debt service – a 20 year $25 million bond
Housing funds contribute $100,000 per unit for Base Site Elements
$5 million from Transportation Fund (+ $900,000)
$1.25 million from WALC bond proceeds (+ $750,000)
$5.55 million from repurposing/recapturing capital project funds (+ $1 million)
                                      Scope
Shell/fit-out approach for non-residential parts of the District
More economical materials – no mass timber
Move the artist-in-residence units to Building 1
Tenant improvement funds TBD
                                    Scenario 1
                  Eliminate Building 2; build 28 housing units initially
Cost: $57.3 million (excluding land)
Extend Building 3 to south and redesign the corner space to fully embrace a transit
center/depot that better integrates with the Bonanza/Munchkin corner.
Add outdoor interactive features instead of a building – sculpture space, play area,
and a place for recreation to merge with art space
Uses $13 million of housing funds initially; preserves ability to add housing later
(affordable or artist in residence or market rate).
No funding gap; some funds available for tenant improvements and other
enhancements.
                                 Scenario -->          1
                                                  No Bldg 2; No
USES                                              Housing B/C
Subtotal Site                                     $ 28,176,562
Housing Phase II (28 units)                       $ 8,907,424
Housing Phase III (16 units)                      $          -
Housing Phase IV (16 units)                       $          -
Building 1 Balcony/Housing common                 $ 1,281,464
Building 1 Coop Core & Shell                      $ 4,707,664
Building 4 Food Hall/Event Core & Shell           $ 6,555,022
Building 2 Transit Center/Acoustic performance    $          -
Building 3 Programmable Arts Space Core & Shell   $ 7,622,046
Total                                             $ 57,250,181
SOURCES
Housing funds                                     $ 12,988,888
Transportation Fund                               $ 5,000,000
WALC Bond proceeds                                $ 1,250,000
TRT Bond                                          $ 25,200,000
TRT cash on hand                                  $ 6,000,000
Capital repurpose                                 $ 5,550,000
Sale of land                                      $ 6,825,000
Total                                             $ 62,813,888
delta                                             $   5,563,707
                                   Scenario 2
                  Delay all housing; delay co-op spaces; no Building 2
Cost: $42.4 million.
Extend Building 3 to south and redesign the corner space to embrace transit along
Bonanza more directly.
Add outdoor interactive features instead of a building here – sculpture space, play
area, a place for recreation to merge with art space.
Buildable pads for future determination potentially allows for a more organic
approach to the District’s buildout over time.
Move co-op studio uses into Building 3.
No funding gap; substantial funds available for tenant improvements and other
enhancements.
                                 Scenario -->            2
                                                  No Housing; No
USES                                              Co-op; No Bldg 2
Subtotal Site                                     $   28,176,562
Housing Phase II (28 units)                       $            -
Housing Phase III (16 units)                      $            -
Housing Phase IV (16 units)                       $            -
Building 1 Balcony/Housing common                 $            -
Building 1 Coop Core & Shell                      $            -
Building 4 Food Hall/Event Core & Shell           $    6,555,022
Building 2 Transit Center/Acoustic performance    $            -
Building 3 Programmable Arts Space Core & Shell   $    7,622,046
Total                                             $   42,353,629
SOURCES
Housing funds                                     $            -
Transportation Fund                               $    5,000,000
WALC Bond proceeds                                $    1,250,000
TRT Bond                                          $   25,200,000
TRT cash on hand                                  $    6,000,000
Capital repurpose                                 $    5,550,000
Sale of land                                      $    6,825,000
Total                                             $   49,825,000
delta                                             $      7,471,371
                                    Scenario 3
         Full buildout – Construct 60 housing units, all cultural/artist facilities
Cost: $73.9 million
Uses $24.3 million of housing funds
No funding gap; but less funds available for tenant improvements and other
enhancements
                                 Scenario -->          3

USES                                              Full Buildout
Subtotal Site                                     $ 28,176,562
Housing Phase II (28 units)                       $ 8,907,424
Housing Phase III (16 units)                      $ 3,898,451
Housing Phase IV (16 units)                       $ 4,184,868
Building 1 Balcony/Housing common                 $ 1,281,464
Building 1 Coop Core & Shell                      $ 4,707,664
Building 4 Food Hall/Event Core & Shell           $ 6,555,022
Building 2 Transit Center/Acoustic performance    $ 8,504,463
Building 3 Programmable Arts Space Core & Shell   $ 7,622,046
Total                                             $ 73,837,963
SOURCES
Housing funds                                     $ 24,272,207
Transportation Fund                               $ 5,000,000
WALC Bond proceeds                                $ 1,250,000
TRT Bond                                          $ 25,200,000
TRT cash on hand                                  $ 6,000,000
Capital repurpose                                 $ 5,550,000
Sale of land                                      $ 6,825,000
Total                                             $ 74,097,207
delta                                             $    259,244
                    Park Avenue Redesign Pilot Program




                                                  Alternative 1A
• Fall 2020 - public outreach, door-to-door outreach, stakeholder group presentations, website and stakeholder
  survey
• Survey - 190 responses; 50% of responders stated parking was not important, 90% indicated walkability was
  important
• Five alternatives were presented to the neighborhood and Council for consideration in September
• The preferred alternative (1A):
       • Prioritizes a neighborhood-street aesthetic option over the traditional option that favored storage of on-
         street parking and vehicle per hour throughput;
       • Adds a striped parking lane, placement of an advisory bike lane (ABL) on the west side of the roadway for
         southbound bikes, and markings for “sharrows” on the east side of the road; and
       • Preserves a total of 91 on-street parking stalls
• May 12: Restriping work scheduled to begin
• May 12-15: Bike lane painting
 LAND MANAGEMENT CODE AMENDMENTS
AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS
          AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES
            AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
 HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES


Affordable Master Planned Developments (AMPDs) that provide at least
 half of the Residential Unit Equivalents for affordable units qualify for:

       • Building Heights up to 45 feet with a 10-foot stepback

                     • Potential parking reductions

                 • Reduced open space requirements

                   • Reduced setback requirements

       •   Up to 10,000 square feet retail/commercial/office use
           AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES


AMPDs are currently allowed in non-historic Zoning Districts that allow
                  Multi-Unit Dwellings, including:

                      Residential Development
                  Residential Development Medium
                         Residential Medium
                       Recreation Commercial
                        General Commercial
                           Light Industrial
                        Community Transition
            AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
  HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES


        On February 25, 2021, the City Council adopted the new
        Affordable Master Planned Development (AMPD) code.

             The Council directed staff to evaluate AMPDs
                  in non-residential Historic Districts.

The proposed Land Management Code (LMC) amendments allow AMPDs
              in the Historic Commercial Business (HCB)
      and Historic Recreation Commercial Zoning Districts (HRC),
                   subject to additional requirements.
             AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
  HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES




On April 7, 2021, the Historic Preservation Board unanimously forwarded a
          positive recommendation for Planning Commission and
                        City Council consideration.

On April 14, 2021, Planning Commission unanimously forwarded a positive
              recommendation for City Council consideration.
          AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES


   The Historic Preservation Board also recommended exploring
      affordable opportunities in Historic Districts, including:

  Accessory Affordable Employee Units within non-residential uses
                 (Summit County is exploring this)

          Incentives to preserve historic footprints for more
              affordable historic single-family dwellings

         Workforce housing units in Old Town that allow for
                 shared living and kitchen spaces

                Incentives to attract car-free tenants
            AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
 HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES


 The Planning Commission voiced support for the Historic Preservation
     Board recommendations and also recommended staff explore
             Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) opportunities.

Last night, the Planning Commission conducted a work session on ADUs
and H.B. 82, which will pre-empt some City ADU regulations in October.
            The Commission provided input on recommended
                  Land Management Code amendments.

        Staff anticipates bringing proposed code amendments
                    to the Commission in early June.
             AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
  HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES


                             GENERAL PLAN

Goal 15 is to preserve the integrity, mass, scale, compatibility and historic
  fabric of the nationally and locally designated historic resources and
                      districts for future generations

Goal 16 is to maintain the Historic Main Street District as the heart of the
   City for residents and encourage tourism in the district for visitors
          AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES




          AMPDs require preservation of Historic Buildings

   The AMPD review process already includes required analysis of
         Historic Structures and preservation obligations

               AMPDs are required to comply with the
                 Historic District Design Guidelines
          AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES




 AMPDs in the HCB and HRC Zoning Districts must comply with the
                Storefront Property Regulations

      No office or residential uses is allowed at the street level
          AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES


        AMPDs in the HCB Zoning District must comply with
            underlying zoning regulations, including

                              Setbacks

                    Building Volume and Height

                          Floor Area Ratio

             Restrictions for properties that extend from
                      Main Street to Swede Alley

                               Parking
          AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES
          AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES
          AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES
          AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES




       AMPDs in the HRC Zoning District would be eligible for
            some of the AMPD incentives, including:

  Additional height extension with a 10-foot stepback, up to 45 feet
            AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
  HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES


            AMPDs in the HRC Zoning District could request
                a reduction in parking requirements

                          The applicant must

        • Demonstrate parking reductions materially increases
                    the feasibility of the AMPD

• Fund and submit a parking and traffic study completed by a third party
                          selected by the City

• Demonstrate that the AMPD sufficiently addresses the parking demand
                           for the project
             AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
  HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES


The Planning Commission may consider certain factors to reduce parking
                          requirements:

• A clear and irrevocable agreement authorizes AMPD tenants to park in
   an off-site Parking Area of Parking Structure within 1,000 feet of the
                          AMPD perimeter boundary
              • The AMPD is within ¼-mile from a bus stop
         • The AMPD provides dedicated parking spaces for
                        resident carshare vehicles
• Parking in the right-of-way along the perimeter of the AMPD is available

 Additional considerations include extra parking facilities for motorcycles,
   scooters, and bikes, and reductions for sites smaller than one acre
            AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
  HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES




If the Planning Commission approves reduced parking, the applicant must
submit a parking management plan to the Planning Commission for review
               prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy

The Planning Commission may amend the parking management plan at any
               time to address changing circumstances
             AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
  HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES




  AMPDs would be prohibited in the HRC Zoning District adjacent to the
Historic Residential – 1 (HR-1) Zoning District to serve as a buffer between
                          the HRC and HR-1 zones
            AFFORDABLE MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
  HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUSINESS AND HISTORIC RECREATION COMMERCIAL ZONES




Staff recommends the City Council conduct a public hearing and consider
                 approving Ordinance No. 2021 – 18
1049 Lowell Avenue – Lot Line Adjustment
           (Plat Amendment)
              City Council
            Regular Agenda
             April 29, 2021
                   1025 Lowell      1049 Lowell    Northstar             Neighborhood
                                                   Subdivision           in General
Average Lot Size   Existing: 0.25   Existing: 0.33 0.30 Acres for lots   .05 Acres on
                   Acres            Acres          fronting Lowell       Eastern side
                                                   Ave                   of Lowell Ave

                   Proposed:        Proposed:      0.56 Acres total      0.08 Acres for
                   0.15 Acres       0.43 Acres     including larger      Lots fronting
                                                   hillside lots         Lowell Ave
Lot 2 (1049 Lowell)         Existing         Proposed
Lot Size                    14,483 SF        18,750 SF
                                             (~29% increase in Lot Size)
Allowable Footprint         3,209 SF         4,500 SF Max
                                             3,465 Proposed

                                             (400 SF Garage Exempt for Lots >
                                             18,750)
                                             Total: 3,865 Proposed actual
Existing Footprint          3,515 SF House   - 638 SF (Demo existing garage)
                            and Detached
                            Garage           + 988 SF New attached garage/ski
                                             room

                                             = Net 350 SF addition overall

Existing/Potential Square   4,802 Existing
Footage                     per Assessor

                            Potentially      Potentially
                            ~6,000+ SF       ~6,500+ SF
Lot 3 (1025 Lowell)        Existing          Proposed
Lot Size                   10,867 SF         6,559 SF
                                             (~40% decrease in Lot Size)
Allowable Footprint        2,950 SF Max      2,269 SF Max

Existing Footprint         N/A               N/A


Potential Square Footage   Potentially       Potentially
                           ~5,500 to 6,000   ~4,500 to 5,000 SF
                           SF
Findings of Fact:
1. The subject properties are located at 1049 and 1025 Lowell Avenue.
2. The subject properties consist of Lot 2 and Lot 3 of the Northstar Subdivision.
3. The property is in the Historic Residential (HR-1) District.
4. 1049 Lowell Avenue contains an existing Detached Single Family Dwelling. 1025
    Lowell Avenue is vacant land.
5. The applicant proposes to adjust the Interior Lot Line of the subject Lots.
6. The proposed Lot Adjustment meets the Lot and Site Requirement of the Land
    Management Code.
7. The applicant has submitted an application for Historic District Design Review, which
    will be processed should the Plat be approved..
8. The applicant will be subject to the Design Guidelines for Park City’s Historic Districts.
9. No public Streets, Right-of-Way, or easements will be vacated or amended as a result
    of the proposed Plat Amendment.
10. The teepee structure on site has been erected for a period of time exceeding 180 days
    and is subject to code enforcement.
Conditions of Approval:
1. The City Planner, City Attorney, and City Engineer will review and approve the final form and content of the Plat for compliance
   with State law, the Land Management Code, and the Conditions of Approval, prior to recordation of the Plat.
2. The applicant will record the Plat at the County within one year from the date of City Council approval. If recordation has not
   occurred within one (1) years’ time, this approval for the Plat will be void, unless a request for an extension is made in writing
   prior to the expiration and an extension is granted by the City Council.
3. New construction shall meet Site and Lot requirements of the HR-1 District per the Land Management Code in effect at the
   time of application submittal.
4. A Historic District Design Review application is required for any new construction proposed at the Site.
5. A shared driveway easement for the benefit of Lots 2 and 3 shall be recorded for the driveway and the retaining wall
   that crosses Lot 3 and shall be reviewed and approved by the City Engineer and City Attorney prior to recordation of
   the plat.
6. The existing teepee shall be removed prior to plat recordation. The applicant shall limit any future tent or tarpaulin
   structure less than 400 square feet erected on site to a maximum of 180 days within a 12-month period. Should the
   applicant desire to exceed the 180 day limit a Building Permit will be required. Failure to adhere to these terms will
   result in code enforcement.
7. The applicant shall include a plat note stating that any encroachments onto Lot 3 for the benefit of Lot 2 shall be
   removed from the site prior to dispossession or sale of the property to a second party or the applicant shall otherwise
   record encroachment agreements prior to the recordation of the plat with Summit County.
8. Access to Lots 2 and 3 shall be only from Lowell Avenue or an easement off of Lowell Avenue.

5.   The applicant shall obtain encroachment agreement(s) for all encroachments prior to recording the plat with Summit County.
6.   The applicant shall record the extension of Northstar Road on the Final Plat, subject to City Engineer approval.
Lot 2 Willow Ranch Plat Amendment
     2750 Meadow Creek Drive

           City Council
          April 29, 2021
   Background
• Lot 2 Willow Ranch Subdivision.
• Estate Zone, 7-acre site, improved with SF
  residence.
• Lot has maximum house and barn size as noted in
  Plat Notes and CC&Rs.
• Applicant is requesting to move square footage
  allocated from the house to the barn but will stay
  within the original total square feet allocated to the
  lot, as well as building envelopes shown on Plat.
          1993 Plat
Limited Home
size to 8,000 sf
and Barns to
1,800 sf.

Height limited to
Zone Height of 28
ft.
       1999 Replat
Approved the
reallocation of
1,300 sf of Barn
area to the Home
and limited height
of Barn.
House max 9,300
sf.
Barn max 500 sf
& 18 ft. height.
             Proposed Amendment
Move square
footage from the
house back to the
barn, remain within
the original total sf
allowed on the lot
(9,800 sf), as well
as within the
building envelopes
shown on Plat, but
not have the
square footage
fixed between the
two structures.
   Good Cause
• Proposed Amendment is consistent with the total square
  footage allowed on the lot between the home and barn. The
  Plat Amendment will allow the applicant to allocate square
  footage from the house to the barn consistent with the
  original Willow Ranch Subdivision Plat Notes and CC&R’s.
  The barn will not exceed 1,800 square feet and will be
  constructed within the allowed building envelope shown on
  the Plat.
     Conditions
18. The Building Heights of the home and barn are limited to 23 feet to
    the midpoint of the roof and 28 feet to the peak of the roof. and the
    building height of the barn is limited to 18 feet to the peak of the
    roof. The barn shall not have a flat roof.
21. The combined total square footage of the home and the barn shall not
    exceed 9,800 square feet, excluding the first 600 square feet of home
    attached garage space per CC&Rs and the City’s Land Management
    Code.
22. The barn square footage will be limited to a maximum of 1,800 square
    feet as originally allowed in the Willow Ranch Subdivision Plat and
    CC&R’s, with no human occupancy.
         Recommendation
• Staff recommends the City Council hold a Public Hearing
  and consider approving Ordinance Number 2021-20, An
  Ordinance Approving the Lot 2 Willow Ranch Replat, First
  Amended, Located at 2750 Meadow Creek Drive, Park
  City, Utah, based on the Findings of Fact, Conclusions of
  Law and Conditions of Approval found in the Ordinance.
  PEG Development
Housing Mitigation Plan
      April 29, 2021
            Housing Mitigation Plan
•   Section 3 of the 03-17 Housing Resolution states the purpose of the
    resolution and why the City requires Housing Mitigation Plans for
    large developments.

    SECTION 3. PURPOSE. The purpose of this Resolution is to ensure
    that new development does not adversely affect the supply of
    affordable housing in the City and to maintain the social, economic
    and political fabric of Park City’s community character. It is
    intended that the requirements imposed herein are roughly
    proportionate and reasonably related to the impacts of the
    Development.
                 Park City Resort
                   Background
• The 1998 Development Agreement requires the Developer to
  construct or provide deed-restricted offsite housing for 80 PCMR
  employees
• Outstanding obligation of 23 beds from the development of parcel
  A (Marriot, Legacy Lodge)
• From 2015 MPD Amendment: Prior to any new application
    • Outstanding obligation must be satisfied with off-site housing,
      or
    • Amend the Housing Mitigation plan, and
    • Submit a completion bond or letter of credit in a form
      approved by the City Attorney
• Any new applications must meet guidelines of current resolution
                  Background
• The Housing Authority provided the following feedback during the
  October 13, 2020 work session. The feedback centered around:
   • Outstanding Obligations
   • Dorm Style Housing
   • Independent Calculations
   • Phasing
   • Bond/Letter of Credit

• The Housing Authority held a second work session on April 1, 2021
  and provided feedback to the updated plan that addressed the issues
  identified at the first work session.
         PEG Proposed HMP
Summary of proposed Housing Obligation according to PEG
(Exhibit B):
• 23 beds outstanding from the 1998 DA
• 65.97 AUE’s required by new commercial development
• 20.85 AUE’s required by new residential development

Summary of PEG’s proposal to meet the Housing Obligation:
• Three dormitories of 8 rooms each, totaling 24 beds; and
• Eighty-Six - 1, 2, and 3 bedroom condominiums ranging
  from 575 to 1,832 sqft.
• AUE’s required by commercial will be rental units (70%).
• AUE’s required by residential will be for sale units (30%).
• A total of 161 beds provided (23 outstanding and 138 new)
                     PEG Proposed HMP
Phasing
•   All the affordable housing will be built in the first phase, on Parcel B. An unconditional
    certificate of occupancy for the Project, or a temporary certificate of occupancy if it allows for
    operation of the affordable housing units.

Eligibility & Selection Process
•   The dorm style units will be reserved for seasonal employees working at the new base
    development to rent.
•   The rental and for-sale units will be offered to the new base development employees first,
    then offered to the rest of the Resort employees. If units remain un-rented, they will be offered
    to employees of other commercial businesses located at the Resort base.
                                        Issues
Rental Rates
•   Rental rates will be set in accordance with the 03-17 Housing Resolution. All rental rates will
    be calculated to target households of 45% AMI for Summit County and will be at or below the
    allowable maximum rental rates as determined by the City and updated on an annual basis.

Sales Prices
•   PEG proposes to construct all affordable units (including the outstanding obligation of 23
    beds) on-site in the first phase after “occupancy” of the proposed parking structure. The
    affordable units will be built concurrently with market-rate units in lot B, but PEG is proposing
    that none of the market rate units receive Certificates of Occupancy prior to affordable unit
    completion.

Letter of Credit
•   PEG will get a letter of credit in place for the 23 beds that are required to be built per the 2017
    agreement. These units will be first to receive Certificate of Occupancy. The credit will be in
    the amount of $2,598,000.
               Recommendation
Review the Affordable Housing Mitigation Plan proposed by PEG
Development, hold a public hearing, and consider approving the
plan to fulfill the affordable housing obligation generated by the
proposed Park City Mountain Base Area Development project.
PEG Housing Mitigation Plan
2.23.21

PEG Development is pleased to be able to incorporate the housing mitigation plan as a part of the
proposed Master Site Plan, maximizing the base area parcels for workforce housing that is within
walking distance of employment, and integrating for-sale attainable housing into the redeveloped area,
creating a vibrant, year-round neighborhood compatible with surrounding residents, reducing daily
traffic, enhancing the quality of life for our valued workforce and local resident, and helping to meet
community environmental and housing goals. The housing mitigation plan is in response to the March
25, 2015 Master Planned Development, Development Agreement, and Mountain Upgrade Plan
Amendments and Conditional Use Permit, whereby MPD Condition of Approval #3 requires that unless
section 2.2 of the Development Agreement is satisfied an updated housing plan shall be presented to
the Housing Authority, either independently or in conjunction with a Small Scale MPD/CUP.

Background

The 1998 Development Agreement requires the construction of 80 beds. (DA Section 2.2 Employee
Housing). The Marriott Mountainside on Parcel A was constructed in 2001 without providing any beds.

The March 25, 2015 action identified the 23 beds are outstanding from the Marriott Mountainside per a
pro-rata allocation based on square footage for the project (findings of fact #116) and that Vail Resorts,
as the now owner of the base area parcels, would be responsible for those beds. PEG, as the developer
of the base area parcels, has agreed to assume that obligation within the updated housing mitigation
plan and new proposal for the base area.

Proposed Plan

PEG, in conjunction with the Master Site Plan, proposes that the 57 remaining bed requirements of the
DA be replaced instead by the current 2017 Park City Affordable Housing Guidelines, as allowed by
Condition of Approval #3 in the 2015 action. What this means is PEG, in meeting its obligations, will be
able to deliver more housing than the other option of 80 beds. As stated in Section 14 (A) of the 03-2017
Affordable Housing Plan, PEG is also committing to delivering all of the housing in Phase 1 of
construction on Parcel B and within a very dynamic plan to construct structured day-skier parking, on-
site housing and innovative pedestrian connectivity through the redevelopment, before any market rate
for sale condos receives Certificate of Occupancy.

The 2017 Park City Affordable Housing Resolution calls for a total affordable housing square footage for
commercial uses based on an employee mitigation calculation.

The 2017 Park City Affordable Housing Resolution regarding for sale condominium mitigation calls for
15% of units to be affordable units. Each affordable unit is calculated as 900 SF per the Resolution.

Per the Resolutions methodology and PEG’s classification of the square footages by use in the proposed
Master Site Plan, the required affordable housing square footage is determined as shown on the
attached calculations in Table 1. The square footage and number of units provided under the 2017
Resolution is significantly more than the remaining 57 beds. While a direct comparison between the DA
requirement of 57 beds and the current resolution (i.e. beds vs square footage), is a little like apples and
oranges, the proposed plan based on the Master Site Plan provides 77,065 sf of net affordable housing
which results in approximately 86 units in a mix of 1, 2 and 3 bedroom configurations with a total of 137
bedrooms; this calculation excludes the Parcel A requirement of 23 beds which would further increase
the total affordable beds included in the proposed project to approximately 161 beds. The 23-bed

                                                                                                           1
PEG Housing Mitigation Plan
2.23.21

requirement would be fulfilled by building three dorm style units with 8 beds per unit totaling to 24
beds. These units will be designed with no more than two beds per bedroom and follow the 03-2017
Affordable Housing Guidelines Section C. See Exhibit A of current dorm style units in other PEG
properties. The final count of units/bedrooms may adjust slightly with final preparations of plans and to
address City input, however the required square footage will be provided per the Resolution.
Calculations for the affordable housing are shown on Table 1.

Table 1




                                                                                                        2
PEG Housing Mitigation Plan
2.23.21

All affordable housing would be deed restricted and subject to Park City affordable housing guidelines
including very affordable rent and sales restrictions.

All the affordable housing will be built in the first phase, on Parcel B. An unconditional certificate of
occupancy for the Project, or a temporary certificate of occupancy if it allows for operation of the
affordable housing units has been issued and all other licenses, permits, authorizations and approvals
required for the Owner to use the Project for its intended use have been issued.
A site plan and floor plans for Parcel B, including the parking, market rate condos and affordable housing
are attached as Exhibit A and B.
Exhibit A




Exhibit B




                                                                                                         3
PEG Housing Mitigation Plan
2.23.21




                              4
PEG Housing Mitigation Plan
2.23.21




                              5
PEG Housing Mitigation Plan
2.23.21




                              6
PEG Housing Mitigation Plan
2.23.21




The following tables shows how we did the independent calculation of the proposed membership-only
Ski Club and for the associated positions to support the ski club. As modeled after successful club
operations at Deer Valley and Vail, the ski club will have valet parking, designated lockers with private
locker rooms, year-round ski storage, year-round roof top pool and hot tubs. A few of the benefits will
be complimentary daily continental breakfast, refreshments served daily in the club great room, special
member spa and dining discounts, first tracks and club ski days in the winter, weekly club ski days with
an Instructor, winter snowshoe hikes, hiking and biking in the summer and week long summer kids
camps and après ski activities.




The independent calculation of the hotel meeting space is found below. The calculations show the
staff support, the total work hours each year and the total number of employees per 1000 square feet.
We have confirmed this with other resorts in the area, these numbers are shown pre- Covid-19.




                                                                                                            7
PEG Housing Mitigation Plan
2.23.21




Eligibility and Pricing

Units will be divided among affordable for rent units and affordable for sale units as defined in
Resolution 03-2017. Given that the project is built as a multi-family structure with condos for sale, the
required affordable housing units derived from the market rate condos will be for-sale. The affordable
housing units derived from the commercial portion of the project will be for rent. The 24 proposed beds
to cover the 23-bed outstanding obligation from Parcel A will be Winter Seasonal Units as defined by the
Resolution in Section 9.B. The City will pre-approve that all buyers/renters are qualified. PEG or Vail will
administer the sale or rental of the units.

Eligibility and selection of units will be determined and administered by the City’s Affordable Housing
Office, in accordance with current Housing Selection Process, with priority given first to employees of
the new uses of the Base Area Development (i.e. from uses on Parcel B, C, D and E), then to employees
of Park City Mountain Resort, then to employees of commercial uses currently at the base, then to
Senior Citizens and persons who are physically and/or mentally challenged per Section 16 of the
Resolution. All sales will be in accordance with the Utah Fair Housing and will be handled by the owner.

Pricing of for-sale units will be based on the Park City Affordable Housing Resolution 03-2017 Section
17.C. For Sale Units. “In general, the initial sale price for an affordable unit in any one development shall
average a price affordable to a household earning 80 percent of Summit county AMI “Target Household
Income Sale Price shall be calculated according to the following guidelines: mortgage payment for the
Owner Occupied Unit, including principal, interest, taxes and insurance (“PITI”), shall not exceed 30% of
the Target Household Income. The assumptions used to calculate the sales price shall be: (i) a 5% down
payment; (ii) a 30-year term; and (iii) an interest rate equal to the prevailing FirstHome rate, or its
program equivalent, of the Utah Housing Corporation (www.utahousingcorp.org) at the time of the
offer.”




                                                                                                            8
PEG Housing Mitigation Plan
2.23.21

Appreciation of the for-sale units will be limited to the lesser of the CPI, or the value of the unit by
calculating the sales price in accordance with the then current Affordable Housing Resolution See
Exhibit.

(For Sale)




*AMI is based on 2020 Summit County AMI. Affordable housing is defined as not consuming more than
30% of the household income. $91,120.00 (80% AMI) x .30 (30%) = $27,336.00 (Yearly Mortgage);
$27,336.00 (Yearly Mortgage) /12 = $2,278 (Monthly Mortgage)



For rent housing will be managed by a professional property management company. Eligibility for the
affordable for-rent housing will be based on the AMI standards of for-rent affordable housing with
priority given first to employees of the new uses of the Base Area Development (i.e. form uses on Parcel
B, C, D, and E), then to employees of Park City Mountain Resort, then to employees of commercial uses
currently at the base. All rentals will be conducted in accordance with the Utah Fair Housing Act.

Rental rates will be set in accordance with the 03-17 Housing Resolution. All rental rates will be
calculated to target households of 45% AMI for Summit County and will be at or below the allowable
maximum rental rates as determined by the City and updated on an annual basis. All rental units will
submit annual compliance surveys in accordance with the recorded deed restrictions.

Eligibility for the 24-bed dorm style units will be based on employment at the new hotel on Parcel C, or
employment at Park City Mountain Resort. Should there remain vacancies the next priority would be for
employees of existing commercial uses at the base.

Rents for the 24-bed dorm style unit will be based on 03-2017 Section 9.C, and set by Special Review of
the Housing Authority. See Exhibit B.



(For rent)




*AMI is based on 2020 Summit County AMI. Affordable housing is defined as not consuming more than
30% of the household income. $46,129.50 (45% AMI) x .30 (30%) = $13,838.85 (Yearly Rent);
$13,838.85 (Yearly Rent) /12 = $1,153.24 (Monthly Gross Rent); $1,153.24 (Monthly Gross Rent) – $125
(Utilities) = $1,028.24 (Net Rent).




                                                                                                           9
PEG Housing Mitigation Plan
2.23.21




Letter of Credit

PEG will get a letter of credit in place for the 23 beds that are required to be built per the 2017
agreement. These units will be first to receive Certificate of Occupancy. The credit will be in the amount
of $2,598,000. This was calculated by the square footage of the total 23 bed units (6000 SF) divided by
900, the sq footage used to calculate an Affordable Unit equivalent (AUE), and multiply by the fee in lieu
amount ($389,700). This equals $2,598,000.




                                                                                                       10
