COPPERTON
2020 GENERAL PLAN

COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 2 PAGE 3
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
GENERAL PLAN STEERING COMMITTEE/PLANNING COMMISSION (PC)
Ryan Taylor (Chair)
Ranuta Alder
Vernon Winkler
Douglas Green (Former)
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL (MTC)
Sean Clayton (Mayor)
Apollo Pazell (Vice Chair)
Kathleen Bailey (Treasurer)
Kevin Severson
Tessa Stitzer
Ron Patrick (Former)
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT (GSL-MSD)
Bart Barker (General Manager)
Brian Hartsell (Associate General Manager)
Lupita McClenning (Director of Planning and Development Services)
Mikala Jordan (Long Range Planner)
Wendy Gurr (Planning Coordinator)
Alex Rudowski (G.I.S. Analyst)
Kayla Mauldin (Long Range Planner)
Maridene Alexander (Communications Manager)
Kate Davies (Senior Long Range Planner)
Travis Hair (Planner II)
OTHERS
Nathan Bracken (Copperton Attorney)
Todd Andersen (Municipal Economic Development Coordinator)
All participating members of the public
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS        2
TABLE OF CONTENTS        3
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY        6
CHAPTER ONE: THE PLANNING PROCESS    8
1.0 GENERAL PLAN OVERVIEW       9
1.1 WHY MAKE A GENERAL PLAN?       9
1.2 COPPERTON’S GENERAL PLAN...       10
1.3 PLANNING AUTHORITY        10
1.4 HOW TO USE THIS DOCUMENT       12
1.5 IMPORTANT TERMINOLOGY       13
1.6 KEY RECOMMENDATIONS        14
CHAPTER TWO: COMMUNITY PROFILE    16
2.0 COPPERTON’S STORY        17
2.1 THE LAND          18
2.2 EARLY INHABITANTS AND HISTORY      19
2.3 COPPERTON TODAY         20
CHAPTER THREE: PUBLIC OUTREACH      22
3.0 THE PROCESS OF LOOKING AHEAD     23
3.1 GENERAL PLAN ENGAGEMENT TIMELINE      24
3.2 SWOT ANALYSIS         26
3.3 APAE ANALYSIS         27
3.4 COPPERTON’S VISION        28
3.5 COPPERTON’S PRIORITIES        30
CHAPTER FOUR: LAND USE       32
4.0 THE IMPORTANCE OF LAND USE      33
4.1 STATE CODE          33
4.2 ROLES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND CONNECTIONS    33
4.3 EXISTING CONDITIONS        36
4.4 CURRENT ZONING         36
4.5 PARCELS          40
COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 4 PAGE 5
4.6 PARCEL-BASED LAND USE        42
4.7 REGIONAL CHARACTER        44
4.8 CHARACTER AREAS & LOOKING AHEAD    46
4.10 HISTORIC COPPERTON         48
4.11 NORTH COPPERTON         56
4.12 CEMETARY AND ENTRANCE CORRIDOR      60
4.13 INTERACTIVE DISTRICT         64
4.14 FUTURE EXPANSION AREA        70
4.15 FUTURE LAND USE MAP        76
4.16 OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES      78
4.17 LAND USE WORK PROGRAM       78
CHAPTER FIVE: TRANSPORTATION     82
5.0 THE IMPORTANCE OF TRANSPORTATION    83
5.1 STATE CODE          83
5.2 VALUES & PRINCIPLES        84
5.3 RELATIONSHIPS, ROLES, & RESPONSIBILITIES     85
5.4 EXISTING CONDITIONS        87
5.5 STREET NETWORK         87
5.6 STREET CLASSIFICATIONS        90
5.7 TRAFFIC VOLUME & SAFETY       91
5.8 COMMUTING PATTERNS        92
5.9 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION        93
5.10 ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION       94
5.11 ACCESSIBILITY         96
5.12 LOOKING AHEAD        97
5.13 OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES      97
5.14 TRANSPORTATION WORK PROGRAM      99
CHAPTER SIX: HOUSING       102
6.0 THE IMPORTANCE OF HOUSING      103
6.1 VALUES & CONNECTIONS        103
6.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS        104
6.3 HOUSING SUPPLY AND AVAILABILITY      105
6.4 HOUSING COSTS AND AFFORDABILITY      107
6.5 LOOKING AHEAD         108
6.6 OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES      108
6.7 HOUSING WORK PROGRAM        109
CHAPTER SEVEN: ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES   112
7.0 VALUING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES     113
7.1 CONNECTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES      113
7.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS        115
7.3 DEMOGRAPHICS AND ECONOMICS      115
7.4 INDUSTRIES AND OCCUPATIONS       117
7.5 EXISTING BUSINESSES        118
7.6 SPENDING PATTERNS        120
7.7 LEAKAGE AND ATTRITION DATA       121
7.8 REGIONAL TRENDS         122
7.9 LOOKING AHEAD         124
7.10 OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES      124
7.11 ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES WORK PROGRAM    127
CHAPTER EIGHT: INFRASTRUCTURE & RESILIENCE  130
8.0 THE IMPORTANCE OF INSTRASTRUCTURE & RESILIENCE 131
8.1 RELATIONSHIPS, ROLES, AND VALUES      132
8.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS        133
8.3 SOCIAL FABRIC         133
8.4 ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS       136
8.5 INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES       138
8.6 LOOKING AHEAD         142
8.7 OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES      142
8.8 RESILIENCE & INFRASTRUCTURE WORK PROGRAM    143
CHAPTER NINE: WORK PROGRAM     148
CHAPTER TEN: REFERENCES & RESOURCES    162
CHAPTER ELEVEN: APPENDIX      168
AMENITIES AND PRIORITIES SURVEY RESULTS    168
TRANSPORTATION AND LAND USE SURVEY RESULTS   173
OTHER WRITTEN PUBLIC COMMENTS      177
COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 6 PAGE 7
several duplexes, and several larger houses diversify Cop-
perton’s residential options. With no service via public 
transportation, Copperton’s work force of 562 drive to 
employment centers in Salt Lake City and West Valley 
City. The Highway (route 48) is the single access road 
between Copperton and nearby developed areas and 
offers no pedestrian or cyclist infrastructure. Copperton’s 
businesses are clustered along the Highway in the eastern 
part of the community, although eleven home businesses 
distributed throughout Copperton also provide employ -
ment opportunities, and some of these contribute to 
the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District funds 
by generating sales tax revenue. The sense of commu -
nity, culture of neighborliness, and ethic of hard work, 
self-reliance, and kindness crafts a strong social fabric 
that improves Copperton’s resilience to challenges.
Key challenges for Copperton include the discrepancy 
between current zoning and what the community desires 
of its land use, maintenance of public infrastructure and 
private properties, the lack of employment and recre -
ational amenities within Copperton and/or accessible 
through alternative transportation methods, the prev -
alence of unreinforced masonry dwellings, preserving 
Copperton’s historic character, maintaining Copperton’s 
social fabric, and communicating Copperton’s wants 
and needs with local and regional partners.
 
Within these challenges are opportunities for mitigation, 
adaptation, and improvement. Opportunities are pre -
sented as key recommendations (see pages 14 and 15), 
which arose as top priorities from the goals, objectives, 
and actions of the work program.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The 2020 General Plan is Copperton’s first comprehensive 
plan since Copperton incorporated as a municipality in 
2017 . The Plan synthesizes data and public feedback to 
describe current conditions, envision Copperton’s future, 
and guide Copperton from present conditions toward 
that desired vision. It addresses the planning process, 
Copperton’s background, and public engagement 
methods, as well as five topical elements—land use, 
transportation, housing, economic opportunities, and 
resilience and infrastructure—and a work program. 
 
Copperton is a semi-rural, historic, bedroom community 
of 904 people. Copperton sits in the southwestern section 
of the metropolitan Salt Lake County and is nestled in 
the foothills of the Oquirrh Mountains. Of Copperton’s 
approximately 195 acres, 42 percent of land use is unde-
veloped, 24 percent is residential, 6 percent is government 
and institutional, 4 percent is commercial, and 4 percent 
is park space; roads, utilties, vacant properties, parking, 
and industrial uses comprise the remaining 20 percent. 
Most residents live within unreinforced masonry dwell -
ings, including the bungalows and period cottages of 
Copperton’s historic district. Two apartment complexes, 
CH 1: THE PLANNING PROCESS - PAGE 9
CHAPTER ONE: 
THE PLANNING PROCESS
1.0 GENERAL PLAN OVERVIEW
A General Plan is a document that guides future development in a place.  Through 
the planning process, existing conditions are examined, desired future conditions 
are established, and a path is laid out to bring a community from its present state 
to its envisioned future. Decision-makers, residents, and other stakeholders can and 
should use the General Plan to coordinate and implement decisions about land 
use, infrastructure, parks, recreation and open space, city services, housing supply 
and affordability, and other public resources. As such, a General Plan is a living, fluid 
document that should be regularly reviewed and updated. 
1.1 WHY MAKE A GENERAL PLAN?
Municipalities make plans for many reasons. The main purpose of a General Plan is 
to aid a community in defining and achieving its desired future. More specifically, 
municipalities make General Plans because:
•  Plans strengthen community autonomy: by establishing a community vision, pri -
orities, and goals, communities avoid change “just happening” to them.
• Plans enhance decision-making: syncing data, local knowledge, and on-the-
ground conditions enable decisions to be comprehensively informed.
• With plans, communities can bolster strengths, achieve goals, minimize and 
resolve problems, and prevent threats.
• Through the establishment of common goals, the planning process brings 
together various community members.
• Utah State Code 10-9a-4 requires each municipality in Utah to prepare a 
General Plan. 
COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 10 CH 1: THE PLANNING PROCESS - PAGE  11
DID YOU KNOW... UTAH STATE CODE SECTION 10-9A-401 requires ev-
ery county and municipality to have a comprehensive, long-range General Plan to 
provide for the health, safety, and welfare of each community and its residents.  The 
General Plan addresses the present and future needs of the municipality as well as 
the growth and development of all or any part of the land within the municipality. 
Section 10-9a-403 of the code outlines the components that can be included in a 
general plan. Land use and transportation elements are required for all counties 
and municipalities (LUDMA, 2020). Many additional elements are also frequently in -
cluded in general plans. Such sections may cover housing, economic development, 
infrastructure, natrual hazards and resilience, or the environment.
1.2 COPPERTON’S GENERAL PLAN...
• Is a guide for the municipality’s development decisions
• Holds a long-term perspective, thinking about Copperton in five, ten, or twenty 
years
• Communicates the wants and needs of the community to elected officials and 
to perspective residents
• Includes a transportation element and a land use element, per Utah State 
Code 10-9a-401
• Is a “living” document and can be updated and altered as deemed neces -
sary
1.3 PLANNING AUTHORITY
Figure 1.3 - 1: The general planning process shown with involved parties, adapted 
from http://www.ruralplanning.org/assets/general-plan-guide.pdf
Copperton became an independent municipality with its own governing authority 
in 2017 after a vote of Copperton residents in 2015. The municipality is governed 
by an elected legislative council, one of whom is selected by the others to be the 
Mayor. The Mayor is the chief executive officer of the Metro Township.  The Metro 
Township has all the municipal powers allocated by the Utah Municipal Code with 
the exception of certain powers of taxation. The Metro Township does not have the 
power to enact a property tax, municipal energy sales and use taxes, or municipal 
telecommunication’s license taxes. The Metro Township Council has the authority 
to enact laws and ordinances to carry out its responsibilities such as land use and 
development regulations (zoning) as long as these laws and ordinances are consis -
tent with the Utah Municipal Code and other state statutes.  
Copperton is a member of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSL-MSD 
or MSD). The MSD was established in 2015. The MSD is a local district, created under 
the “Special District Code 17B 2a-11” (LPLGE, 2014). The District is comprised of five 
metro townships and one town including Copperton, Emigration Canyon, Kearns, 
Magna, White City Metro Townships, the Town of Brighton, and unincorporated Salt 
Lake County; and was created under Utah Code 10-2a, part four, which allows 
townships to be recognized as municipalities (Municipal Incorporation, 2015). The 
Metro Townships gained official recognition as municipalities on January 1, 2017 
through a general election of the citizens in 2015. The MSD, together with the gov -
ernmental alliance of the Metro Townships, has formed the first district of its kind 
in the United States. The District is empowered to levy a property tax on real or 
personal properties located within its boundaries, through the decision of the indi -
vidual metro townships and the MSD board.
The MSD provides Copperton with planning and development, business license, 
and code enforcement services as part of its membership agreement. The Cop -
perton Council appoints a Planning Commission, working with MSD Planners, to 
make recommendations regarding land use decisions to the Council. The Council 
also appoints a General Plan Steering Committee to work with MSD Long Range 
Planners on the development of Copperton’s General Plan. To support the making 
of the General Plan, the Copperton Council appointed four members of the Copperton 
Planning Commission to serve on the Steering Committee (Ranuta Alder, Doug Green, 
Ryan Taylor, and Vern Winkler). The General Plan Steering Committee and Planning 
Commission make recommendations to the Council regarding the adoption and 
amendment of the General Plan. The Council can adopt, reject, or revise a recom -
mended General Plan (Figure 1.3 - 1).

COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 12 CH 1: THE PLANNING PROCESS - PAGE 13
1.4 HOW TO USE THIS DOCUMENT:
This plan is divided into three sections that set the stage (Chapters 1-3) and five top -
ic-based sections (Chapters 4-8):
Chapter 1. The Planning Process - summary of General Plans and planning authority
Chapter 2. Community Profile - Copperton’s history and current demographics
Chapter 3. Public Engagement - Copperton’s public feedback and events
Chapter 4. Land Use - current and future development and use of land
Chapter 5. Transportation - accessibility and mobility
Chapter 6. Housing - housing conditions, options, and affordability
Chapter 7 . Economic Opportunities - employment, business profile, and options
Chapter 8. Infrastructure & Resilience - social, digital and brick and mortar infrastruc -
ture needs, community strengths, hardships and disasters
Chapter 9. Work Program
Chapter 10. References & Resources
Chapter 11. Appendix
Even though different topics are presented in distinct chapters, they remain tightly 
related to each other. Each topic-based chapter includes three major parts:
1. The Importance Of... (topic relevance, state requirements, relationships, roles),
 
2. Existing Conditions (data analysis and on-the-ground conditions), and
 
3. Looking Ahead (opportunities and challenges, the topic’s work program)
as well as some topic-specific parts. 
PUBLIC INPUT: In the document, look for 
these speech bubbles for quotes from resi -
dents, survey responses, and other informa-
tion on how public input shaped the plan.
This document is intended to be actionable. Towards that end, Copperton’s General 
Plan breaks down priorities and strategies into digestible and implementable pieces. 
Throughout the plan, the following terms and definitions will be important:
VISION - overarching summary statement envisioning Copperton’s future
GOALS - overaching desired outcomes attained through the General Plan
OBJECTIVES - identified outcomes that support goals
ACTIONS- specific policies, programs, or strategies that accomplish objectives
POLICIES - statements that inform elected officials and decision-makers
PROGRAMS - governmental or community actions toward meeting goals 
1.5 IMPORTANT TERMINOLOGY:
DID YOU KNOW... look to these green boxes throughout the document for 
explanation of planning concepts and supplemental information.
COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 14 CH 1: THE PLANNING PROCESS - PAGE 15
1.6 KEY RECOMMENDATIONS:
Key challenges for Copperton include the discrepancy 
between current zoning and what the community desires 
of its land use, maintenance of public infrastructure and 
private properties, the lack of employment and recreation -
al amenities within Copperton and/or accessible through 
alternative transportation methods, the prevalence of unre -
inforced masonry dwellings, preserving Copperton’s historic 
character, maintaining Copperton’s social fabric, and com-
municating Copperton’s wants and needs with local and 
regional partners.
To address these key challenges are five key recommenda -
tions. Of all the goals, opportunities, and actions created in 
the Work Program to progress Copperton’s toward its vision, 
these arose as top priorities for implementation.
1. Revisit Copperton’s land use ordinances to align ordinanc-
es with Copperton’s vision as presented in the Character 
Area analyses and Future Land Use Map (pages  46-75, and 
76-77). In particular, update zoning designations, zoning 
definitions, and the built environment characteristics asso -
ciated with zones in each Character Area.
2. Enhance communication across partnerships and 
between decision-makers and residents to improve public 
and private infrastructure appearance, functioning, and 
maintenance. Focus on education and outreach to link resi-
dents to home repair, unreinforced masonry retrofitting, and 
energy efficiency grant programs.
3. With zoning updates, follow Character Area and Future 
Land Use guidelines generated in this plan to enable the 
provision of desired amenities, such as walkability, outdoor 
recreation options, and small business opportunities.
4. Consider opportunities to incorporate Copperton’s 
historic character in economic, recreation, and develop -
ment decisions, including via informative, decorative, and/
or commemorative signage in walkable areas, and by up -
keeping the residential character within Historic Copperton.
5. Continue facilitating Copperton’s strong social fabric 
through transparent, effective, and community-based de -
cision-making and by supporting community organizations 
and efforts that contribute to Copperton’s social fabric.

CH 2: COMMUNITY PROFILE - PAGE 17
2.0 COPPERTON’S STORY
Copperton is a rurally-rooted community in southwestern Salt Lake County, Utah 
(Figure 2.0 - 1). Copperton lies about 24 miles southwest of Salt Lake City, and sits 
adjacent to West Jordan City (via its eastern tail, not depicted) and unincorporated 
areas of Salt Lake County. 
CHAPTER TWO: 
COMMUNITY PROFILE
Figure 2.0 - 1
COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 18 CH 2: COMMUNITY PROFILE - PAGE 19
2.1 THE LAND
The western half of Utah, including part of Salt 
Lake County and Copperton, sits in the Great Basin 
Region. The Great Basin Region can be defined by 
different considerations with varying boundaries: 
by the water system and flow (The Hydrographic 
Great Basin), the pattern of mountains and valleys 
(The Basin and Range), and the temperate desert 
climate and ecosystem (The Great Basin Desert) 
(National Park Service, 2017). Copperton falls within 
the Great Basin Region from all perspectives: hy -
drographic, geologic, and climatic and biologic.
THE HYDROGRAPHIC GREAT BASIN  occupies about 200,000 square miles, and 
all precipitation that lands in the region either sinks into the earth, flows into lakes (not 
any ocean), or evaporates (National Park Service, 2017). Most lakes in the region are 
saline, like the Great Salt Lake; the precipitation in and around Copperton eventually 
flows into the Great Salt Lake via the Jordan River. 
THE BASIN AND RANGE  is the topographic pattern of north-to-south oriented 
mountain ranges adjacent to flat valleys (National Park Service, 2017). Copperton 
sits in the shadows of the Oquirrh Mountain Range and looks out across the Salt Lake 
Valley at the Wasatch Mountain Range, both examples of north-to-south oriented 
ranges. The Basin and Range topography introduces unique and localized geologic 
features in the region. These geologic features have greatly contributed to the prom-
inence of mining industries in the region, including near Copperton. 
THE GREAT BASIN DESERT offers a climate characterized by hot and dry summers, 
short springs and autumns, and snowy winters (National Park Service, 2017). The 
highly variable terrain, from low valleys to mountains of different heights, enables 
pockets of diverse ecosystems. In the valleys and low foothills where Copperton sits, 
common trees include the Singleleaf Pinyon, the Utah Juniper, and the Gambel Oak 
(Utah Division of Wildlife Resources, 2001). Shrubs include Chokecherry and Big Sage, 
while native grasses include Indian Ricegrass and Desert Needlegrass (Utah Division 
of Wildlife Resources, 2001). Prairie Aster, Firecracker Penstemon, and White-tufted 
Evening Primrose are some native flowers (Utah Division of Wildlife Resources, 2001). 
Animals found in the valley or foothills include mule deer; coyotes; voles, mice, and 
squirrels of multiple species; and the black-tailed jackrabbit (Natural History Museum 
of Utah, n.d.).
Image sourced from: https://
www.nps.gov/grba/planyourvis -
it/the-great-basin.htm
2.2 EARLY INHABITANTS AND HISTORY
All together, the hydrographic, geologic, climatic, and biologic features of this 
area, including Copperton, form a beautiful and interesting natural landscape. The 
first humans to witness this landscape were Native American hunter-gatheres who 
entered the territory that would become Utah as early as 10,000 B.C.E. (Lewis, n.d.). 
Five Native American tribes have deep history in Utah: Shoshone, Piute, Ute, Goshute, 
and Navajo. The Shoshone and Ute peoples inhabited parts of the Salt Lake Valley 
(Lewis, n.d.) and likely hunted in and travelled through what is today Copperton. 
Mormon Pioneers did not enter the Salt Lake Valley until 1847 (Lewis, n.d.), and Cop -
perton did not become settled until 1926 (Orchard, 2012).
Copperton’s history is tightly tied to mining. In the 1920s, housing demand for em -
ployees and their families led the Utah Copper Company to build a new town 
close to their mining operation in an area called “Rattlesnake Flat” (Deseret News, 
1988). They named this new town, located at the mouth of Bingham Canyon, Cop -
perton. The tiny settlement with 18 houses in 1926 quickly grew to a small town of 
200 houses in the 1950s (Deseret News, 1988). Eventually the town ownership was 
transferred, and the town ceased to be a company town. Almost all the land sur -
rounding Copperton is still owned by the mining industry, now under the the name 
of Rio Tinto Kennecott. In 1986, Copperton became listed in the National Register 
of Historic Places (Orchard, 2012). Today Copperton remains an image of 1930s 
suburbia. It has stayed a small community with similarly sized lots and charming 
housing styles. A central feature of the town is the ten-acre Copperton Park.
Images sourced from: https://nhmu.utah.edu/mammals-wasatch-front (rabbit, marmot) and https://
conservationgardenpark.org/file/3512da4f-4f44-4ae5-8c11-d746579f34a3/Firecracker-Penst-cl2.gif 
(flower).
COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 20 CH 2: COMMUNITY PROFILE - PAGE 21
2.3 COPPERTON TODAY
As a small, close-knit bedroom community, Copperton’s young professionals raise 
families while working in Salt Lake City or West Valley City, and retirees get to live in 
a peaceful and quiet part of a bustling metropolitan area. Copperton’s population 
numbered 826 people in 2010 and 904 people in 2018 (ESRI, 2018).  The population is 
predicted to change at an annual rate of 0.96 percent between 2018 and 2023 (the 
national rate is 0.83 percent), leading to a 2023 population of 948  (ESRI, 2018). As a 
whole, Salt Lake County and the State of Utah have experienced rapid growth that 
will likely continue. Southern Salt Lake County has grown particularly quickly. While the 
most likely scenario for Copperton’s future is steady growth, Copperton may experi -
ence rapid growth or even population decline.  Regardless of the types of changes 
Copperton may experience, planning will help Copperton thrive in its desired ways. 
Copperton’s community of 904 is classified as “Middleburg” by demographic data 
analysts (ESRI, 2017). The classification system identifies common habits and traits in a 
given zip code. Middleburg residents live in semi-rural neighborhoods, are general -
ly conservative, family-oriented consumers, spend less than the average American 
household in every budget category, experience a low unemployment rate, and live 
in fairly affordable housing (ESRI, 2017). More demographic patterns are showcased 
in the infographic (Figure 2.3 - 1). All 2018 data come from ESRI Business Analyst On -
line, except for education data, which come from the U.S. Census Bureau’s American 
Community Survey  (U.S.C.B., 2018d).
34.1 
years
304
2.97
2018 MEDIAN AGE
2018 AVERAGE 
HOUSEHOLD SIZE
2018 NUMBER OF 
HOUSEHOLDS
2018 MEDIAN HOUSE-
HOLD INCOME $57,285
13.1%
2018 PERCENT
HISPANIC OR
LATINO/A
11. 9 %
2018 PERCENT 
ACHIEVING COL-
LEGE DEGREE
2018 PERCENT WITH 
HIGHSCHOOL DIPLOMA 
AS HIGHEST EDUCA-
TION ATTAINED
43.5%
$19,4372018 PER-CAPITA 
INCOME
Figure 2.3 - 1: Demographics Infographic
Images sourced from: GSL-MSD and Copperton Community Facebook Page (right)Image sourced from: GSL-MSD
CH 3: PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT - PAGE 23
CHAPTER THREE: 
PUBLIC OUTREACH 
3.0 THE PROCESS OF LOOKING AHEAD
Imagining Copperton’s future requires substantial public input.  While people’s 
specific visions diff er , the se visions ar e link ed b y c ommonalitie s.  C oppert on r e si-
dents are proud of their community, care for its wellbeing, and hope for its successful 
continuation into the future. The timeline on the next page showcases where, when, 
and how public engagement occurred throughout the planning process.
STEERING COMMITTEE MEETINGS: Planning staff from the Municipal Services District 
facilitated the Steering Committee.  The Steering Committee met about once per 
month at the Bingham Canyon Lion’s Club until March 2020. Beginning in March, 
monthly meetings occurred virtually through a free software application (Webex). 
In June 2020, meetings began occurring twice per month. These meetings were 
open to the public. All were welcome to participate fully.    
COPPERTON EVENTS: The Steering Committee and MSD Planning Staff utilized other 
public engagement methods as well. Methods included outreach at communi -
ty-planned events, such as the 2019 4th of July Kid’s Parades and the 2019 August 
24th’s Town’s Day. At these events, Planning Staff hosted tables with information on 
general planning and provided worksheets for residents to share their thoughts. 
GENERAL PLAN WORKSHOPS AND SURVEYS: The MSD hosted a workshop on Trans -
portation Values for community leaders, also open to the public, on January 30th, 
2020. Three other public workshops had to be forgone due to social distancing re -
quirements made necessary by the outbreak of the pandemic COVID-19 in March 
2020.  The outreach process thus transitioned to having a survey-based emphasis. 
Planning staff created and dispersed two surveys: Transportation and Land Use, and 
Priorities and Amenities. Instruction on taking the Priorities and Amenities Survey was 
mailed to every household in Copperton. The mailer also included a reminder of 
how to attend the General Plan Steering Committee meetings as well as contact 
information of Planning Staff. If residents did not have internet access available to 
take the survey, they were encouraged to call Planning Staff to complete the survey 
via telephone. A copy of these surveys can found in the appendix. A timeline of 
major events can be found on the next pages.
Imagine Copperton...

CH 3: PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT - PAGE 25COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 24
26 JUNE 2019: 
General Plan 
kick-off at Cop -
perton Kid’s 
Parade
13 AUGUST 2019
SWOT & APAE activity
9 JULY 2019
General Plan 
discussion
24 AUGUST 2019
Engagement at Cop -
perton Town’s Day
10 SEPTEMBER 2019
Vision statement
12 NOVEMBER 2019
Transportation goals
1 1 FEBRUARY 2020
Housing goals
3.1 GENERAL PLAN ENGAGEMENT TIMELINE
30 JANUARY 2020
MSD Transportation 
Values workshop
OCTOBER 2019
Land Use goals
14 APRIL 2020
General Plan section 
1 review
12 MAY 2020
Economic Oppor -
tunities goals
26 MARCH 2020
Transportation 
Open House mailer 
and event (can-
celled: COVID-19 
Outbreak)
APRIL - MAY 2020
Transportation and Land 
Use survey is active
24 JUNE 2020
Character Area 
development
JUNE - JULY 2020
Priorities and Amenities 
mailer and survey9 JUNE 2020
Goal Tables review
THROUGHOUT: Updates at Council  meetings; email updates
7
1 1 & 26 AUGUST 
2020
Resilience and Infra -
structure goals
2 3
5
9
10
11
13 14 15
17 18
14 & 29 JULY 2020
Character Area devel -
opment, and Resilience 
and Infrastructure goals
19
SEPTEMBER 2020
General Plan 
complete review

CH 3: PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT - PAGE 27COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 26
3.2 SWOT ANALYSIS
A Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT) analysis is a planning 
tool.  It aims to understand Copperton’s needs and possibilities.  This understanding 
provides the baseline from which the plan is built.  Responses gathered from com -
munity members at the June 26th Copperton Kid’s Parade, at the July 9th Planning 
Commission meeting, the August 13th General Plan Steering Committee meeting, 
and the August 24th Town’s Day are presented below.
STRENGTHS WEAKNESSES
OPPORTUNITIES
Parks and open areas for socializing
Town council
Facebook page
Lion’s Club involvement
Police sub-station
Community involvement & activities
Tight-knit community
Low-crime
Quiet
Dumpster Day
Historic value; charming unique hosues
Cooler temps. than rest of SL Valley
Topography: flat roads, great views, breezes
Copper mine involvement: lack of transpar -
ency, dust, noise, sirens
Untidy properties
Crime
Bickering
No dog holding kennel for strays
No senior services, no schools
No gas, grocery, etc.; no bus
Long travel distances
Narrow streets: + speed reduction, - firetruck 
access
Lack of community investment
Lack of control/political power
No free TV channels
Community apathy
Historic preservation
Neighborhood watch; community clean-up
Upgrade park facilities & park maintenance
Cooperation with Rio Tinto
Signs/painting for parking: to clear space for 
firetrucks
More street lighting, esp. in park
Highway speed limit from 30 to 25 mph
Collaboration with West Jordan
Amplify our voice; university partnerships
Outdoor barbeques
Wind  and solar energy production
Collaborating with Herriman: expand road to 
Toelle; increase home values
Small, neighborhood business/commercial
UTA Hub
Stage/ampitheater on school property
Over-population
Urban sprawl & encroaching development
Crime: car break-ins, graffiti, violence
Profanity
Rio Tinto expansion
Radon
Speeding on Apex
Limited land
Rio Tinto land selling to SoJo or Herriman
Townhome development
High density development
3.3 APAE ANALYSIS
An Achieve, Perserve, Avoid, and Elimi -
nate (APAE) analysis is a tool that looks 
at the interplay between “yes” and “no.”  
Community members answer yes or no 
to the questions: “Do we have it?” and 
“Do we want it?”  The answers to these 
questions guide whether a particular con -
dition, event, or characteristic should be 
achieved, preserved, avoided, or elimi -
nated.  Responses are below.
PRE-
ACHIEVE
PRESERVE
AVOID
ELIMINATE
Community involvement
Community garden
Increased police presence, esp. on 
Dumpster Day & in park 12am -  3am
Increased transportation options: if WJ 
develops west end, network for bus loop
Increased lighting
Electronic events sign: to encourage 
involvement & to communicate sirens
Library/Commmunity center in offices
Convenience store
Senior center; elementary school
Water security; solar panels
Repeater/Translator station
University partnership: low-cost way to 
achieve projects
Self-sustaining community
Gas station: old-fashioned, historic feel
Access to hiking in foothills
Parks
Community feel
Bingo nights
Town Days
Open areas
Historic housing
Post-office & boxes
Fire station
Copperton Improvement District
Voucher program
Dumpster Day
Urban sprawl; new development; high density 
housing: (large apartment complexes)
Water insecurity
Realtors encouraging home-sales
Court trials with larger communities
Further garbage collection restrictions
Realtors influencing people to sell  
houses
Crime: drugs, graffiti
Rio Tinto dust & noise
Current conveyor placement
Community facebook drama
Closeness of Rio Tinto fences to community
THREATS
CH 3: PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT - PAGE 29COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 28
3.4 COPPERTON’S VISION
The SWOT and APAE analyses showed similarities and differences in what commu -
nity members think about Copperton’s present and future. Sharing these various 
viewpoints led to the development of a collective understanding of Copperton. At 
the General Plan Steering Committee meeting on 10 September 2019, the Steering 
Committee members and stakeholders worked together to identify a vision for Cop -
perton. They generated the vision statement below. The vision statement identifies 
Copperton’s desired direction for the future. It is the overarching framework for the 
content and trajectory of this General Plan.
COPPERTON STRIVES TO BE A COMMUNITY THAT
• Preserves its cultural and historical identity
• Protects open space and wildlife
• Is dedicated to a healthy, connected, and family-
friendly environment, and
• Embraces sustainable economic growth.
Images sourced from: GSL-MSD

CH 3: PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT - PAGE 31COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 30
3.5 COPPERTON’S PRIORITIES
To gain widespread public feedback for Copperton’s 
2020 General Plan, an Amenities and Priorities survey was 
created and distributed. In five questions with provided 
responses options as well as three open-ended questions, 
this survey asked residents about the importance and de -
sirability of various amenities and opportunities (Figures 
3.5 - 1 and 3.5 - 2) (See appendix for exact questions and 
compiled results). 
All Copperton households recieved a postcard mailed to 
the residence. Postcards detailed instructions on access -
ing the online survey and encouraged residents to attend 
the ongoing General Plan Steering Committee meetings. 
To ensure that those without internet access could par -
ticipate, postcards invited residents to call in so planning 
staff oculd administer the survey via the telephone. The 
GSL-MSD and Copperton also shared the link to the survey 
on their respective websites and social media pages.
Between June 23rd, 2020 and July 27th, 2020, 54 Cop -
perton residents submitted responses, equating to an 
impressive response rate of six percent. The survey results 
closely reflected the discussions of the Steering Commit -
tee. Residents identified the following top six issues for 
elected and appointed officials to focus on in the next 
five years:
 » Planning for nearby growth
 » Maintaining and improving existing infrastructure
 » Enhancing  community beautification
 » Access to outdoor recreation
 » Promoting small business opportunities, and
 » Celebrating Copperton’s roots and historic  
     preservation (Figure 3.5 - 2).
Figure 3.5 - 1: Desired Opportunities
Figure 3.5 - 2: Priority Issues
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 33
CHAPTER FOUR: 
LAND USE
The Land Use Element establishes a vision for the  future pattern of development in a 
community. It is the single most important element of the General Plan, bridging each 
of the plan’s unique sections together. Understanding current land use challenges and 
planning for future land use opportunities is critical because land use is part of the 
fabric of a community. Why? Land use impacts everything:  housing, transportation, 
economic opportunities, access to daily needs, and quality of life. In fact, Copperton’s 
Vision Statement addresses land use from several perspectives. Values regarding the 
environment, social connection, and community wellbeing are all achieved in part 
through decisions regarding land use. 
For example, thoughtful land use ensures that households have access to transpor -
tation and recreational amenities, that schools are not located near sources of air 
pollution, that commercial centers receive the traffic they need to stay in business, 
and that municipal services and infrastructure can be provided efficiently. The pattern 
of land use in a community is thus a major determinant of area character and quality 
of life. Throughout this chapter, the connections between Copperton’s land use and 
the aforementioned topics are explored through data-analysis, public feedback, and 
on-the-ground experiences. 
The state of Utah acknowledges the importance of land use in community develop -
ment and wellbeing. To comply with state law, Utah municipalities must incorporate 
a land use element into the General Plan. According to Utah State Code 10-9a-403, 
General Plans must include in the land use element: “the long-term goals and the 
proposed extent, general distribution, and location of land for housing for residents 
of various income levels, business, industry, agriculture, recreation, education, public 
buildings and grounds, open space, and other categories of public and private uses 
of land as appropriate” (LUDMA, 2020).
4.0 THE IMPORTANCE OF LAND USE
4.1 STATE CODE
4.2 ROLES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND CONNECTIONS
Copperton has land use authority regarding development within its boundaries, and 
contracts with the GSL-MSD to provide land use services, including planning and ordi -
nance development. However, land use values relevant to Copperton appear in state 
and regional spaces, such as the regional plan, Wasatch Choice 2050. It is important 
to recognize these values, as aligning Copperton’s goals with regional and statewide 
values increases the likelihood of acquiring funding and successfully implementing 
projects. (See https://wfrc.org/vision-plans/wasatch-choice-2050/).
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 35COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 34
LAND USE PLANNING MUST BALANCE VARIOUS AND OFTEN COMPETING  
needs and wants. Needs vary from resident to resident, year to year, and space 
to space, all within a small community like Copperton. The following connections 
and points of consideration showcase and appreciate the complexity of land use 
planning decisions.
Housing: Land Use and housing are tightly connected. Copperton residents have 
expressed interest both in maintaining predominantly single-family housing and 
in keeping Copperton housing affordable. These two priorities (while not entirely 
mutually exclusive) conflict with each other. If most residential land continues to be 
zoned single-family, then, reflecting county-wide real estate trends, housing values in 
Copperton will likely increase. Increased housing values can be beneficial to home -
owners looking to sell, but associated increased taxes can burden households too. 
Additionally, higher housing costs create a barrier for young adult residents who wish 
to move out of their parents’ home but keep living in Copperton.
Transportation: Land Use and transportation together determine a community’s 
access to opportunities (see the next page for further explanation). To increase Cop -
perton’s access to opportunities (employment, retail, dining, recreation, healthcare), 
two solutions exist. Transportation to opportunities can improve. Or, opportunities 
can be introduced into Copperton by changing land use patterns. 
Economic Opportunities:  Currently, the small area allowing commercial develop -
ment and the lack of 100% access to broadband infrastructure limit Copperton’s 
economic opportunities. Land Use changes, such as creating a mixed-use zone to 
allow for the gradual addition of small-scale, Copperton-appropriate commercial 
development, are necessary to support economic sustainability goals.
Resilience: Without in-town supply, Copperton residents rely on other communities 
to access food, gas, health care, clothing, and other daily needs. Groups such as 
children, those with disabilities, or those who cannot safely drive, must depend on 
others to access these necessities for them. In emergencies, even healthy adults with 
the ability to drive and access to vehicles may experience obstacles in meeting their 
and their families’ needs.  Increasing amenities and economic opportunities within 
Copperton can thus increase community resilience. 
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) uses the “access to opportuni -
ties” framework to evaluate the accessibility of basic needs and amenities to 
people. On a local level, accessibility measures “the ease with which we can 
reach existing amenities that help support livability, such as grocery stores, 
health care facilities, parks, or transit stops that link residents to employment” 
(WFRC, n.d.). Access can also refer to how many employees or customers a 
business has access to. Access increases with shorter commutes between or -
igins and destinations, which happens either from more rapid transportation 
systems or from bringing amenities physically closer to residences. Graphics 
below are from WFRC.org.
ACCESS TO OPPORTUNITIES:
HOW ACCESSIBILITY INCREASES:
A transportation improve -
ment expands the access 
shed.
Development decisions 
bring amenities and res -
idences closer together, 
further expanding the ac -
cess shed. This can oper -
ate on a small scale too, 
such as by the opening of 
a market or one restaurant.
Existing accessibility for one business 
includes the houses in the blue oval.
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 37COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 36
Figure 4.4 - 1
Most land use within Copperton’s boundaries is for 
single family residences. Land zoned R 1-6 or R 1-8 is 
for single family residences (See Figure 4.4 - 1). Two 
areas also allow two-family residences, or duplexes; 
R 2-6.5 and R 2-8. The northwest is zoned heavy 
industrial (M-2) while the northeast is zoned agricul -
tural (A-2). The west is zoned commercial (C-2). The 
area in acres occupied by each zone is included in 
Figure 4.4 - 1. See the Zoning Definitions Inset on the 
next page for details regarding these zones. 
4.4 CURRENT ZONING (2020)
4.3 EXISTING CONDITIONS
Copperton occupies approximately 195 acres, or 
0.30 square miles. Residents value the aesthetic 
charm of its residences and the quiet atmosphere 
that arises from Copperton’s land use patterns. Sin -
gle-family residential is the dominant land use, and 
there are several duplexes and larger apartment 
complexes. Copperton Park sits in the center of the 
residential area and is a highly valued asset. Reli -
gious institutions, a fire station, a post office, and 
several businesses also have an important presence 
in the community.
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 39COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 38
2020 ZONING DEFINITIONS, MUNICIPAL CODE 19.14-68
All R 1 zones: The purpose of the R-1 zones is to establish single-family 
neighborhoods which provide persons who reside therein a comfort -
able, healthy, safe and pleasant environment. 
R 1-6: Permitted Uses = single-family dwelling: 1 per 6,000 sq. ft.
R 1-8: Permitted Uses = single-family dwelling: 1 per 8,000 sq. ft.
All R 2 zones: The purpose of the R-2 zones is to establish low to medium 
density residential neighborhoods which provide persons who reside 
therein a comfortable, healthy, safe and pleasant environment.
R 2-6.5 and R 2-8: Permitted Uses = Accessory uses and buildings cus -
tomarily incidental to a permitted use provided the total square footage 
of all accessory buildings does not exceed eight hundred square feet 
on lots under one-half acre or one thousand two hundred square feet 
on lots one-half acre or larger; Agriculture; home business, subject to 
Chapter 19.85; home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293; 
household pets; residential facility for elderly persons; residential facility 
for persons with a disability; single-family dwelling; two-family dwelling.
M-1: The purpose of the M-1 zone is to provide areas for light industrial 
uses.
M-2: The purpose of the M-2 zone is to provide areas for heavy industrial 
uses.
A-2: The purpose of the A-2 zone is to provide areas for low-density resi -
dential development and agricultural uses.
C-2: The purpose of the C-2 zone is to provide areas for community com -
mercial development.
5.3 DU/ACRE
8.0 DU/ACRE
VISUALIZING DENSITY:
Images sourced from: https://www.theurbanist.org/2017/05/04/vi -
sualizing-compatible-density/ (top) and https://slideplayer.com/
slide/4145969/ (bottom)
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 41COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 40
Figure 4.5 - 1
Parcels are pieces of land with defined boundaries and under 
one owner. A parcel includes the structures and open spaces 
with the boundaries. Parcels vary in size and shape. Most Cop -
perton parcels in residential zones are similarly sized rectangles. 
Parcels in industrial and agricultural zones are significantly larger. 
Figure 4.5 - 1 shows 326 of Copperton’s parcels; parcels in the 
Bingham City Cementary area are not pictured. Total acreage 
of the parcels depicted is 194.98 acres. Non-vacant parcels take 
up 190.52 acres. 
Vacant parcels are often looked to for redevelopment. Of the 10 
vacant parcels depicted below, six are in areas zoned residential 
and four are in areas zoned commercial.  The ten vacant parcels 
occupy 4.46 acres.
4.5 PARCELS
Vacant parcels are pieces of land with no human-made devel -
opment on them but intended for development. For example, an 
empty lot in the middle of a residential street would be a vacant 
parcel, but an empty lot zoned as open space would not be con -
sidered one. Sometimes vacant parcels used to have residenc -
es or business, but they got torn down. Other times, vacant par -
cels have setback requirements and minimum building footprint 
requirements that prevent construction. And, sometimes parcels 
sit vacant because the property owner has no current desire to 
build. 
WHAT ARE VACANT PARCELS?

CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 43COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 42
4.6 PARCEL-BASED LAND USE
Within zones, the specific use of the land on the parcel level 
can differ. The WFRC analyzes land use on a parcel level using 
multiple data source (the Utah Automated Geographic Refer -
ence Center, the Real Estate Market Model, satellite imagery, 
and Salt Lake County). Understanding specific land use helps 
guide development decisions: knowing what land is used for 
indicates the changes that may be necessary to accomplish 
the desired community vision. When analyses show discrep -
ancies between actual and intended land uses, this indicates 
that land use ordinances should be revisited.
This  parcel-based approach is related to but differs from 
zoning. For instance, a parcel deemd “Single Family Residen -
tial” by this metric means that the specific property has a 
single-family home on it, but the zone may or not be an R-1 
zone. Copperton’s R-2-6.5 zone (a multi-family zone) along the 
western end of the Highway, for example, includes single family 
homes, a church, duplexes, and an apartment complex. 
 » Single Family Residential: 44.8 acres, 23.0% of land
 » Commercial: 7 .3 acres, 3.8% of land
 » Government and Insitutional: 12.1 acres, 6.2% of land
 » Industrial: 7 .6 acres, 3.9% of land
 » Multi-family Residential: 2.7 acres, 1.4% of land
 » Parks and Open spaces:  8.0 acres, 4.1% of land
 » Vacant: 4.5 acres, 2.3% of land
 » Roadways and Utilities:  12.9% of land
 » Parking: 0.05 acres, 0.03% of land
 » Undeveloped: 82.7 acres, 42.5% of land
Figure 4.6 - 1

CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 45COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 44
4.7 REGIONAL CHARACTER
Mining operations and fields surround Copperton on three sides. This land is owned 
by Rio Tinto Kennecott and under the jurisdiction of unincorporated Salt Lake County. 
Rio Tinto has stated that, as of 2020, they have no intention of developing this land.  
Those lands are zoned M-2, heavy industrial, and A-2, agricultural. While most of the 
surrounding land is zoned as heavy industrial, it sits as undeveloped open space criss -
crossed with roads that serve the copper mine. The open space is vital to crafting 
Copperton’s rural atmosphere and sense of separation from sprawling Salt Lake 
County development.  
 
West Jordan, with a 2017 population of 113,089, sits east and north of Copperton 
(U.S.C.B., 2018b). South Jordan, including the Daybreak planned community, lies east 
and south of Copperton with a population of 68,471 (US.C.B., 2018b). Herriman City, 
population 35,640, sits south of South Jordan (U.S.C.B., 2018b). Like Salt Lake County 
as a whole, all of these West Bench communities are experiencing rapid popula -
tion growth. Herriman’s population doubled between 2010 and 2018; South Jordan’s 
increased by 148 percent, and West Jordan’s increased 115 percent. The planned 
Olympia Hills development in nearby Unincorporated Salt Lake County may intro -
duce 6,330 units to the area (Olympia Hills, 2020). 
How these communities develop their currently undeveloped land, which sits on their 
sides that are closest to Copperton, will impact Copperton. Growth will likely start by 
clustering along Mountain View Corridor. From West Jordan’s Future Land Use map, 
the areas closest to Copperton are planned as agricultural open space, public facil -
ities, light industrial, research parks, and parks and open lands (Figure 4.7 – 1). South 
Jordan’s Future Land Use map includes natural area, public, open space, residential 
development opportunity, mixed-use, and economic center in the areas closest to 
Copperton.
The effects of these impacts wilL be COMPLICATED AND VARIABLE. From increased 
population in these communities, traffic loads on Bacchus Highway, Old Bingham 
Highway, and Mountain View Corridor will likely intensify. Consequently, commuting 
times from Copperton to other places may increase. Longer commute times would 
negatively impact Copperton’s access to opportunities: fewer opportunities could 
be reached in the same amount of time. At the same time, land use development 
near Copperton may bring shopping, employment centers, and other amenities 
closer to Copperton, decreasing the distance required to access opportunities and 
lessening vehicle miles traveled by Copperton residents. New development in these 
Figure 4.7 - 1
Image sourced from: https://gis.wjordan.com/city-info/
areas may make public transportation options more viable from UTA’s standpoint. 
Additionally, an increasing population closer to Copperton’s borders may provide 
a broader, consistent customer base for Copperton businesses, bringing support for 
existing businesses and enabling the creation of new businesses.
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 47COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 46
Copperton has several character areas: places of partic-
ular importance to, or displaying the distinct personality 
of, Copperton. Character areas are defined as specific 
geographic areas that:
 » have unique or special characteristics; 
 » have potential to evolve into a unique area when 
provided specific guidance; or 
 » require attention suitable to its uniqueness. 
Building, landscape, and streetscape features combine 
to form character areas. Within a character area, these 
features are similar; compared to another character 
area, one more of these features may differ, and so the 
areas feel distinct from one another. 
Five character areas have been identified in Copperton:
1. Historic Copperton
2. Cemetery and Entrance Corridor
3. North Copperton 
4. Interactive District
5. Future Expansion Area
In this plan, each character area includes a narrative 
that lays out a vision, specific goals, appropriate land 
uses, and implementation strategies for municipalities’ 
unique sub-areas, districts, and neighborhoods. Included 
in these analyses are considerations regarding future 
zoning. These considerations propose appropriate future 
zoning based upon the synthesis of data analysis and 
public input. The actual delineation of land use catego -
ries are to be established at the time property is rezoned 
or proposed for development. Such decisions would go 
before the Copperton Planning Commission.
4.8 CHARACTER AREAS & LOOKING AHEAD
Figure 4.8 - 1

CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 49COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 48
4.9 HISTORIC COPPERTON
LOCATION
The heart of Copperton, this district encompasses a majority of the area south of 
the Highway as well as two sections of older development north of the Highway. 
It includes an Historic District per the National Register of Historic Places as well as 
older parts of Copperton not within the Historic District.
NARRATIVE
Copperton is a well-preserved, compact community that conveys a distinct sense 
of time and place and represents an important segment of Utah’s architectural 
and history. Copperton was built between 1926 and 1955 as a planned residential 
community for employees of Utah Copper Company. Scott & Welch, a Salt Lake 
City-based architectural firm is credited with designing the layout of the town as well 
as the designs for virtually all of houses built in Copperton between 1926 and 1941. 
The houses in Historic Copperton hold Copperton’s past. Copperton was listed on 
the National Register of Historic Places in 1986; The core Historic District takes up the 
residential area south of the Highway to Hillcrest Street, from Apex Road to 2nd West 
Street (Living Places, n.d).
The subdivision layout of the town consists primarily of straight streets and rectangu -
lar blocks divided into roughly equal size lots. The individual resources in Copperton 
as well as the town’s overall layout are very well preserved and effectively convey 
the original character and significance of the town. Stylistically, most  houses in Cop -
perton are bungalows, period cottages, or a mixture of the two. The bungalows are 
characterized by their broad front porches and exposed rafters, and they tend to be 
more plain than the period cottages. The period cottages generally have modest 
designs in the English Tudor or Spanish Colonial Revival styles. Most buildings are 
unreinforced masonry structures. Regular upkeep is needed toprovide continually 
safe and accessible housing. However, to maintain the historic designation requires 
the following of specific rules regarding modifications. A couple of small apartment 
complexes enable more affordable living. 
The Rio-Tinto Kennecot Copper Mine, which looms above Copperton in the west, 
reminds residents about the past and present relationship of the community to 
mining. Copperton Park’s mining-themed playground keeps new generations of 
Copperton residents connected to their history too. Strong, reliable internet supports 
Copperton’s hardworking, do-it-yourself culture by enabling successful home busi -
nesses. Other assets foster Copperton’s strong sense of community and shape this 
area as a place to “play” as well as 
live. All residents enjoy Copperton 
Park. Its large, shade-producing trees 
are taken-care-of and surround open 
spaces used for community events. 
The three churches and the Lion’s Club 
remain centerpieces of community in -
teraction, collaboration, and support. 
The gridded street network connects 
the community, promoting walking 
and biking. Landscaping between the 
streets and sidewalks bolsters Cop -
perton’s beauty.
DENSITY AND INTENSITY
Dwelling Units: 263
Total Acreage: 75.5 acres
Current Gross Density*: 
 3.5 du/acre
 
Current Net Density**:
 4.5 du/acre
 6.1 du/r.acre***
FACTS
Building Square Feet: 
 Median Size: 1,715
 Maximum Size: 60,338
Year Structures Built:
 Earliest: 1906
 Latest: 1996
Total Market Value of Parcels:
 Median, All: 179,050 dollars
 Median, Vacant: 8,400 dollars
CURRENT LAND USES: 
Residential: 43.3 acres
 Single Family: 40.4 acres
 Two/Multi Family: 2.9 acres 
Government & Institutional: 2.4 acres
Park: 6.5 acres
Commercial: 1.8 acres
Roadways and Utilities: 17 .5 acres
Parking: 0.1 acres
Vacant: 0.6 acres
Other: 3.4 acres
CURRENT ZONES:
 
 » R-1-6 (Single Family) 1 unit per 
6,000 square feet
 » R-2-6.5 (Two Family) 2 units on 
6,500 square feet or 1 unit per 
6,000 square feet
 » R-2-8 (Two Family) 4,000 square 
feet for a lot containing 1 unit of a 
2 unit dwelling  or 1 other unit per 
8,000 square feet
*Gross density is total dwelling units divided 
by total acres. du/acre = dwelling unit per 
acre. **Net density is total dwelling units 
divided by total acreage minus the acreage 
from roadways and utilities. ***Net density 
for residential acres means the total dwelling 
units divided by total acreage that allows 
residential development (R1, R2, Mixed Use) 
minus the acreage from roadways and utili -
ties. du/r.acre = dwelling unit per residential 
acre.
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 51COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 50
HISTORIC COPPERTON FUTURE USES
Figure 4.9 - 1 displays the future land use for the Histor -
ic Copperton character area. The future land use map 
shows zoning for parcels. The next page details density 
and other characteristics. What constitutes ultimately ac -
ceptable uses, density, building characteristics, and key 
visions for Historic Copperton is dependent on a robust 
public process, the guidance and goals provided in the 
General Plan and, most importantly, the current zoning or -
dinance.
Potential Changes:
Maintaining the Historic District within this Historic Cop -
perton character area is a priority. No land use changes 
within the district are suggested. However, Copperton 
Park should be rezoned from its current R-1-6 designation 
to a Park Space (active open space) zone, which accu -
rately reflects its use. The Post Office parcel should also 
be rezoned as Mixed Use A (Government and Institutional, 
Commercial).
Land use changes may be appropriate for other parts of 
Historic Copperton, such as parcels north of the Highway, 
south of Hillcrest, and east of Apex Road. Several parcels 
are used for single-family dwellings despite sitting in R-2 
zones. Over time as these properties sell, they could 
be converted into multi family dwellings as intended to 
provide affordable housing options. Additionally, vacant 
properties should be infilled into the zone appropriate to 
them.
Figure 4.9 - 1: Historic Copperton Future Land Use

CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 53COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 52
FUTURE ZONES & CONSIDERATIONS:
 
Density Changes from possible land use changes (infill of vacant lots): 
Gross: 3.5 remains 3.5 du/acre
Net: 4.5  changes to 4.6 du/acre (minus roadways and utilities)
Residential: 6.1 changes to 6.0 du/r.acre
Residential Density Range:  5.5 - 6.5 du/r.acre (6.5 is maximum)
Building Heights: 
 » Single Family Residential - maximum 20 feet (generally one story with attic)
 » Other Use Buildings - maximum 25 feet (generally two stories)
Commercial Floor Area Ratio:  0.5 - 2.0 
Parking: 
 » Residential - on-street and driveway parking
 » Others - on-street parking, shared parking, and back-of-lot parking permitted
Other Design Features:
 » Upkept fire-wise landscaping in yards and between sidewalks and yards. 
 » Xeriscaping is encouraged.
 » Streets adjacent to Copperton Park have efficient, pleasing street lights.
 » Residences maintain 1930s-50s characteristics, such as:
• One story
• Front porches and/or prominent front door and windows
• Bungalows and Period Cottages (English Tudor, or Spanish Colonial 
Revival)styles
• Residences are setback 15-30 feet from from the street
• Garages/car ports are not the central feature of the residence
 » Gridded, connected streets lined with safe, well-maintained sidewalks.
 » Commemorative/historically informative intrepretive signs explaining assets in 
the Historic District
R-1 (Single Family) (R-1-6) Zone
 » Permitted Uses:
• Single Family homes compatible with bungalow, English Tudor, or Colonial 
Revival style
• Accessory buildings (such as garages, car ports, or sheds) secondary to 
dwellings in size, height, and prominence, and architecturally compatible
• Gardens or greenhouse, with no retail sales
• Chicken coops
• Home Business
• Household Pets
• Home Preschool or Daycare
R-2 (Two Family) (R-2-6.5 and R-2-8) Zone
 » Permitted Uses:
• One and Two Family homes
• Accessory buildings (such as garages, car ports, or sheds) secondary to 
dwellings in size, height, and prominence, and architecturally compatible
• Gardens or greenhouse, with no retail sales
• Chicken coops
• Home Business
• Household Pets
Park Space (Open Space - Active) (OS-A) Zone
 » Permitted Uses:
• Public park
• Buildings customary to parks (maintenance buildings, restroom)
• Playgrounds, Trails, Gardens, Sports courts and fields (NOT stadiums or arenas)
MU-A (Mixed Use) Zone
 » Permitted Uses:
• Government and Insitutional (such as post office or religious buildings)
• Community-oriented Commercial (such as Bingham Canyon Lion’s Club or 
private-public library)
• NOT big box stores or industrial polluting operations
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 55COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 54
OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES, AND ACTIONS
Assets: 
 » Copperton Park
 » Gridded Street Network
 » Bingham Canyon Lion’s Club
 » Immaculate Conception Catholic Church
 » Church of Jesus Christ of the Latter Day Saints
 » St. Pauls United Methodist Church
 » The United States Postal Service
 » Historic District in National Register of Historic Places
Implementation Strategies:
 » Residences, especially the bungalow and period cottage styles, are unrein -
forced masonry and at risk of destruction from hazards such as earthquakes. 
Residences need retrofits to better withstand earthquakes; retrofits in Historic 
District should abide by historic designation requirements. Link residents to seismic 
retrofit programs.
 » Unkempt yards and houses detract value from other properties and are not 
aesthetically pleasing. Residents can use GSL-MSD’s online portal for reporting 
code violations, including weed and junk issues. Copperton’s social infrastruc -
ture maintains the culture of neighbors helping neighbors, including with yard 
maintenance. Advertise code enforcement reporting and support Copperton’s 
strong social fabric.
 » Lack of street lights near the park prevents greater and safer use of it, especially 
at night. Additional lights can help address petty crime concerns and increase 
the sense of safety. Add lights to streets adjacent to Copperton Park.
 » Vacant lots detract from area beauty but have potential to be developed into 
desired amenities. Encourage infill.
 » Copperton Park is an asset for recreation and community gathering that needs 
regular care to maintain its value in the future. Rezone its parcels as Park Space 
and hire an arborist.
 » The community-wide events hosted by the Lion’s Club and religious institutions 
are integral to the community feel not only of this character area, but also of 
the entire community.  Continue collaboration and communication that support 
these efforts. 
Images sourced from: http://www.googlemaps.com/

CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 57COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 56
4.10 NORTH COPPERTON
NARRATIVE
As the residential neighborhood along Solstice View Drive and W Equinox Circle, 
this area is distinguished by newer single family houses of a different styling than 
those in Historic Copperton. These homes were built in the early 2000s and include 
Neo-ecletic and Suburban Ranch styles. The median size of these homes is larger 
than in other areas of Copperton, providing options for larger families. As the neigh -
borhood rests on a hill, most residents enjoy a viewshed.
FACTS
Building Square Feet: 
 Median Size: 2,382
 Maximum Size: 3,354
Year Structures Built:
 Earliest: 2000
 Latest: 2006
Total Market Value of Parcels:
 Median, All: 240,700 dollars
CURRENT LAND USES: 
Single Family Residential: 3.79 acres
Roadways and Utilities: 1.1 acres
Undeveloped Space (zoned agricul -
tural): 1.23 acres
Vacant: 0.24 acres
CURRENT ZONES:
 
 » R-1-6 (Single Family) 1 unit per 
6,000 square feet
 » A-2 (Agricultural)
DENSITY AND INTENSITY
Dwelling Units: 17
Total Acreage: 6.4 acres
Current Gross Density: 
 2.7 du/acre
 
Current Net Density
 3.2 du/acre
 4.5 du/r.acre
NORTH COPPERTON FUTURE USES
Figure 4.10 - 1 displays the future land use for the North Copperton character area. 
The future land use map shows zoning for parcels. The next page details density and 
other characteristics. What constitutes ultimately acceptable uses, density, building 
characteristics, and key visions for North Copperton is dependent on a robust public 
process, the guidance and goals provided in the General Plan and, most important -
ly, the current zoning ordinance.
Figure 4.10 - 1: North Copperton Future Land Use
Potential Changes:
The parcel in the south -
west corner under the 
cul-de-sac is current -
ly vacant and has no 
access. To become 
useable, it could be 
combined with other 
adjacent lots, or an 
access point would need 
to be determined.
The northernmost rect -
angular plot in North 
Copperton is part of 
an agriculturally-zoned 
parcel that extends 
beyond this charac -
ter area’s limits. In the 
future, this plot may be 
subdivided. In keeping 
with the current density, 
lot size, and resident 
size characteristics of 
North Copperton, five or 
six single family homes 
could be built here.
Image sourced from: http://www.google -
maps.com/
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 59COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 58
FUTURE ZONES & CONSIDERATIONS:
 
Density Changes from development of northern plot into five single family homes: 
Gross: 2.7 changes to 3.5 du/acre
Net: 3.2  changes to 4.2 du/acre (minus roadways and utilities)
Residential: 4.5 changes to 4.4 du/r.acre
Residential Density Range:  4.0 - 5.0 du/r.acre (5.0 is maximum)
Maximum Building Heights: 
 » Single Family Residential - typical two story house
Parking: 
 » Residential - on-street and driveway parking
Other Design Features:
 » Upkept fire-wise landscaping in yards and between sidewalks and yards. 
 » Xeriscaping is encouraged.
 » Safe, well-maintained sidewalks
R-1 (Single Family) (R-1-6) Zone
 » Permitted Uses:
• Single Family homes compatible with current character
• Accessory buildings (such as garages, car ports, or sheds) secondary to 
dwellings in size, height, and prominence, and architecturally compatible
• Gardens or greenhouse, with no retail sales
• Chicken coops
• Home Business
• Household Pets
• Home Preschool or Daycare
OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES, AND ACTIONS
Assets: 
 » Single family residences
 » Sidewalks
 » Street lights
 » Viewshed
Implementation Strategies:
 » The houses in North Copperton, with their larger floor plans, diversify the resi -
dences available in Copperton. In the future, the undeveloped northern land 
could be developed to support additional residences with the characteristics 
of existing North Copperton houses. Rezone the northern section of North Cop -
perton as single family residential (R-1-6).
Images sourced from: http://www.googlemaps.com/

CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 61COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 60
4.1 1 CEMETERY AND ENTRANCE CORRIDOR
NARRATIVE
The Bingham City Cemetery sits outside the main Copperton area. They are con -
nected via a narrow strip of land around the Highway (route 48). The cemetery is 
the resting place of many Copperton residents, stretching back several decades. 
A cemetery board provides management. The cemetery came under Copperton’s 
jurisdiction in 2017 , and it is a valued piece of Copperton. The entrance corridor links 
not only the cemetery to the rest of Copperton, but all of Copperton to other areas. 
FACTS
Market Value of Cemetery Parcel:
 398,700 dollars
CURRENT LAND USES: 
Cemetery: 8.9 acres
Roadways and Utilities: 1.3 acres
 
CURRENT ZONES:
 
 » M-2 (Heavy Industrial)
DENSITY AND INTENSITY
Dwelling Units: 0
Total Acreage: 10.2 acres
Current Gross Density: 
 0 du/acre
 
Current Net Density:
 0 du/acre
 0 du/r.acre
Image sourced from: https://www.deseret.com/2017/5/28/20613200/school-district-returns-control-
of-bingham-cemetery-to-its-rightful-owners#bingham-city-cemetery-copperton-is-pictured-on-
thursday-may-25-2017-the-jordan-school-board-has-deeded-the-pioneer-cemetery-to-copperton-
township-after-44-years-as-owner-and-caretaker
CEMETERY AND ENTRANCE CORRIDOR FUTURE USES
Figure 4.11 - 1 displays the future land use for the Cemetery and Entrance Corridor 
character area. The future land use map shows zoning for parcels. The next page de-
tails density and other characteristics. What constitutes ultimately acceptable uses, 
density, building characteristics, and key visions for the Cemetery and Entrance Cor -
ridor is dependent on a robust public process, the guidance and goals provided in 
the General Plan and, most importantly, the current zoning ordinance.
Figure 4.11 - 1: Cemetery Future Land Use
Potential Changes:
The parcel within which 
the Bingham City 
Cemetery sits is currently 
zoned M-2, heavy indus -
trial. This parcel is not 
envisioned as changing 
from its use as a cemetery. 
Heavy industrial uses are 
not desired for this parcel 
in the future. There -
fore, this parcel should 
be rezoned as govern -
ment and institutional, 
which would allow the 
cemetery to continue 
without risking changes 
to undesireable uses in 
the future.

CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 63COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 62
Image sourced from: https://www.deseret.com/2017/5/28/20613200/school-district-returns-control-
of-bingham-cemetery-to-its-rightful-owners#bingham-city-cemetery-copperton-is-pictured-on-
thursday-may-25-2017-the-jordan-school-board-has-deeded-the-pioneer-cemetery-to-copperton-
township-after-44-years-as-owner-and-caretaker
FUTURE ZONES & CONSIDERATIONS:
 
Residential Density Range:  not applicable, no anticipated changes
Maximum Building Heights: 
 » Typical one or two story maintenance building
Parking: 
 » On-street parking, surface parking
Other Design Features:
 » Upkept landscaping and grounds
 » Upkept headstones, markers, and gateway
GI (Government and Insitutional) Zone - Cemetary
 » Permitted Uses:
• Cemetery and its accessory buildings (such as maintenance buildings or 
memorial building) 
OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES, AND ACTIONS
Assets: 
 » Memorials
 » Upkept landscaping
 » Cemetery entrance
 » Viewshed
 » Highway (route 48)
Implementation Strategies:
 » Bingham City Cemetery is important to Copperton residents. Support mainte -
nance and upkeep of the cemetery. Rezone the associated parcel as government 
and instiutional.
 » The Highway (route 48)  connects Copperton to other places. It is currently 
a two lane road with a limited shoulder. Both Old Bingham and New Bingham 
highways are posted at 50 miles per hour; after they intersect, the speed limit de -
creases to 35 mpiles per hour as the road approaches the main Copperton area. 
Despite the speed and lack of shoulder, both cyclists and pedestrians are known 
to frequent the roadside. Improve this entrance corridor into Copperton by part -
nering with engineering to add pedestrian infrastructure, cyclist infrastructure, 
and street lights.
Image sourced from: http://www.googlemaps.com/
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 65COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 64
4.12 INTERACTIVE DISTRICT
LOCATION
This district sits along both sides of the Highway (route 48), stretching from the Highway 
to the north and south borders, right as it enters the main Copperton area from the 
east.
NARRATIVE
The Interactive District is Copperton’s main commercial area. Its activity generates 
funds for Copperton through sales tax. The parcels along the Highway are currently a 
mixture of developed, commercial spaces and vacant lots. The land further from the 
Highway is undeveloped land, part of a much larger parcel spanning multiple char -
acter areas, and zoned agricultural (A-2). Current commercial businesses include an 
automobile shop, storage units, and a landscaping center. Customers of these com -
mercial uses typically utilize a vehicle to transport goods, so maintaining adequate 
parking at these businesses is important.
This area will continue to be Copperton’s commercial hub. In addition to the current 
commercial properties, the infill of vacant lots and the development of the northern 
section can provide new amenities in a quiet, family-friendly, small-scale, mixed use 
area. In this vision, interactive, community-oriented businesses such as an arts and 
crafting shop and studio, a bakery, a smoothie place, an insurance office, an Ace 
Hardware, a bicycle repair shop, or a book and hobby shop line the streets. While up 
to two stories high, the buildings are compatible with the character of Copperton’s 
bungalow and period cottage style houses. With the first floor a business or office 
space, the second floor is available as a living space, supporting one or two apart -
ments apiece. Copperton’s rich history is further supported with plaques and artwork 
throughout the streetscape that share Copperton’s story while contributing to the 
area’s beautification. 
As people enter Copperton and the Interactive District, they experience a beautiful 
streetscape along the Highway. Wide, connected, multi-modal streets branch of the 
Highway and support safe walking and biking, sufficient parking, and safe driving. 
Emergency vehicles can easily navigate the gridded street network as well. It may 
be appropriate to designate owner/resident/employee parking from customer/guest 
parking. With the wide, complete streets, businesses can provide outside seating so 
that customers can enjoy their smoothies or read their new books in a comfortable 
outdoor setting. There are also designated loading and unloading areas, whether 
for business goods or for ride-share vehicles.
DENSITY AND INTENSITY
Dwelling Units: 13
Total Acreage: 17.9  a c res
Current Gross Density: 
 1.33 du/acre
 
Current Net Density:
 1.49 du/acre
 10.63 du/r.acre
CURRENT LAND USES: 
Residential Two/Multi Family: 1.2 acres
Government/Institutional: 0.2 acres
Commercial: 3.4 acres
Roadways and Utilities: 1.1 acres
Vacant: 3.9 acres
Undeveloped Space (zoned agricul -
tural): 8.1 acres
FACTS
Building Square Feet: 
 Median Size: 4,651
 Maximum Size: 11,202
Year Structures Built:
 Earliest: 1954
 Latest: 1984
Total Market Value of Parcels:
 Median, All: 122,400 dollars
 Median, Vacant: 62,500 dollars
CURRENT ZONES:
 
 » A-2 (Agricultural)
 » C-2 (Commercial)
 » M-1 (Light Industrial)
SMALL-SCALE MIXED USE EXAMPLES: 
Examples of appropriate design:
Example of appropriate scale:
Images sourced, top to bottom and left to right, from: https://images1.cityfeet.com/i2/2yHLbw -
Zz7t-kGCDGK7ekEhZha1VTyut2twlYLvjL8bo/110/image.jpg;https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/
images?q=tbn%3AANd9GcSpTMlJvhYXKKtk0Hug6TD7ayjzvI4tuJ2Csg&usqp=CAU; and https://i.pinimg.com/
originals/04/52/49/0452498e1cdbdd149ac6c29036c28058.jpg; https://ssfm.com//wp-content/uploads/2017/11/
Complete-Streets.jpg
Example of complete streets design:

CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 67COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 66
INTERACTIVE DISTRICT FUTURE 
USES
Figure 4.12 - 1 displays the future land 
use for the Interactive District char -
acter area. The future land use map 
shows zoning for parcels. Appropriate 
density and other characteristics are 
detailed as well. What constitutes ul -
timately acceptable uses, density, 
building characteristics, and key vi -
sions for the Interactive District is de -
pendent on a robust public process, 
the guidance and goals provided in 
the General Plan and, most impor -
tantly, the current zoning ordinance.
Potential Changes:
Parcels within this character area are 
zoned agricultural, industrial, and 
commercial. Neither the agricultural 
nor the industrial parcels are actually 
used as such. Several parcels are 
zoned commercial but are vacant. 
To support desired uses of commer -
cial, neighborhood commercial, 
live-work spaces, complete streets, 
and community spaces, this area can 
be rezoned Mixed Use B, with infill of 
vacant parcels and development of 
undeveloped land. While more apart -
ment complexes are not envisioned 
for the area, the existing apartment 
complex remains part of this charac -
ter area.
Figure 4.12 - 1: Interactive District Future Land Use FUTURE ZONES & CONSIDERATIONS:
 
Density Changes from possible land use changes: 
Gross: 1.33 changes to 5.63 du/acre
Net: 1.49 changes to 7 .04 du/acre (minus roadways and utilities)
Residential: 10.63 changes to 7 .04 du/r.acre
Mixed Use Residential Density Range:  6.50 - 8.50 du/r.acre (8.5 is maximum)
Maximum Building Heights: 
 » Live-work buildings - typical two story with attic
 » Commercial buildings - typical two story
 » Government and Institutional buildings - typical two story
Commercial Floor Area Ratio:  0.5 - 2.0 
Parking: 
 » On-street parking, and either back-of-lot parking or side-lot parking
 » Shared parking among entities - must meet sum demand of individual entities
 » Designated owner/resident/employee parking and guest/customer parking
 » Parking is safe and available but not the prominent feature of any parcel as 
seen from the streetscape
 » Loading and unloading areas
Other Design Features:
 » Upkept fire-wise landscaping in yards and between sidewalks and yards. 
 » Xeriscaping is encouraged.
 » Buildings are oriented to the street, and are the prominent feature
 » Buildings are compatible with 1930s-50s characteristics, such as:
• Front porches and/or prominent front door and windows
• Bungalows and Period Cottages (English Tudor, or Spanish Colonial 
Revival) styles
 » Gridded, connected street network with complete streets: safe, well-main -
tained sidewalks and bikeways, driving lanes, designated on-street parking, 
landscaping, and street lights. Emergency vehicles have adequate access.
 » Informative, intrepretive signs explaining Copperton’s history
 » Trail connection from the Open Space trail system to the Highway
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 69COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 68
MU-B (Mixed Use) Zone
 » Permitted Uses:
• Government and Insitutional, such as: 
• Post office
• Library
• Educational buildings
• Religious buildings
• Community center
• Town hall
• Fire station
• Small-scale, family-friendly Neighborhood Commercial, such as:
• Arts and crafting shop and studio
• Bakery, smoothie place, ice cream parlor
• Insurance office
• Bicycle repair shop
• Book and hobby shop
• Small-scale Commercial operations, such as:
• Conveniece store and gas station
• Market or grocery store
• Landscaping store
• Storage units
• Automobile repair shops
• Hardware store
• NOT big box stores or industrial polluting operations
• Pocket Park
• Community Garden
• Live-work spaces, where:
•  Neighborhood Commercial occupies the ground floor and one or two 
apartments occupy the second floor, or Neighborhood Commercial occupies 
the street-side of the ground floor and one or two apartments occupy the 
rear of the ground floor
•  Space between live and work is clearly delineated
•  All ground floor apartment units follow universal design principles
• NOT stand-alone apartment complexes or high density residential buildings
OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES, AND ACTIONS
Assets:
 
 » Existing business
 » Access to the Highway (route 48)
 » Room for development
Implementation Strategies:
 » The success of a small-scale, mixed use area in the Interactive District depends 
upon well-thought out street networks, streetscapes, and building designs. Res -
idents indicated that adequate parking, safe areas to walk and bike, street 
beautification, historic commemorations, and appropriate building scales are 
important pieces. 
• Revisit land use ordinances, considering appropriate design standards, 
building heights, densities, uses, and parking. 
• Rezone parcels as Mixed Use - B. 
• Adopt a street connectivity ordinance to ensure most transportation effi -
cient and mode-friendly commercial area. 
• Adopt Universal Design Principles for one story live-work spaces.
Images sourced from: https://www.weavershardware.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/04/20190711_140409-
e1575899784109-1024x700.jpg (left) and https://bloomingarden.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/Picture2.
jpg (right)
Examples of small-scale commercial operations:
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 71COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 70
4.13 FUTURE EXPANSION AREA
LOCATION
The Future Expansion Area occupies most of the undeveloped land north of the 
Highway (route 48). This includes all of the areas currently zoned R-1-8 and M-2, the 
western part of the A-2 zone, and the northern part of the R-1-6 zone.
NARRATIVE
The Future Expansion Area takes up over 40 percent of Copperton’s land area and 
thus influences the look and feel of the community. This area allows Copperton some 
room to grow yet focuses on upholding the small-town feel and preserving natural 
spaces. Most of the land is set aside as open space, where vegetation can grow 
naturally. A few multi-use, non-automotive trails could wind through the open space, 
including a perimeter trail and providing recreation opportunities to walkers, runners, 
hikers, and cyclists. Some of the land is programmed as park space. This park space 
could include playing fields, places to sit and gather, and a playground. 
The southwestern and southeastern sections of the Future Expansion Area are en -
visioned as single family residential areas. The new residences are designed to be 
architecturally compatible with Copperton’s historic character. The land along the 
Highway can support mixed-use development. Government and insitutional build -
ings; small-scale, neighborhood commercial, buildings; and above- or behind- shop 
apartment units are imagined here. While up to two stories high, the buildings are 
compatible with the character of Copperton’s bungalow and period cottage style 
houses. With the first floor a business or office space, the second floor is available as 
a living space, supporting one or two apartments apiece. Businesses and insititutions 
provide back-of-lot or side lot parking. The streets within the Future Expansion Area 
are connected and sufficiently wide to provide for safe walking, biking, on-street 
parking, and driving. Streets add to Copperton’s beauty by being well-landcaped 
and well-lit. 
DENSITY AND INTENSITY
Dwelling Units: 4
Total Acreage: 84.1 acres
Current Gross Density: 
 0.05 du/acre
 
Current Net Density:
 0.05 du/acre
 9.16 du/r.acre
CURRENT ZONES:
 
 » A-2 (Agricultural)
 » R-1-8 (Single Family) 1 unit per 8,000 
square feet
 » R-1-6 (Single Family) 1 unit per 6,000 
square feet
 » M-2 (Heavy Industrial)
FACTS
Building Square Feet: 
 Median Size: 1,918
 Maximum Size: 5,914
Year Structures Built:
 Earliest: 1930
 Latest: 1989
Total Market Value of Parcels:
 Median, All: 103,400 dollars
 Median, Vacant: 8,700 dollars
CURRENT LAND USES: 
 Residential Single Family: 0.4 acres
 Associated Single Family: 0.3 acres 
 Industry/Private Industrial Reserve: 
 7. 6  a c res
 Vacant: 1.7 acres
 Undeveloped Space: 74.1 acres
SMALL SCALE NEIGHBORHOOD 
COMMERCIAL EXAMPLES: 
Image sourced from: http://www.googlemaps.com/
Examples of appropriate design:
Examples of appropriate scale:
Images sourced, top to bottom and left to right, from: https://whyy.org/wp-content/uploads/planphilly/assets_11/bull-
s-eye-darts-and-computer-guy-two-recently-refreshed-storefronts-on-torresdale-avenue.original.jpg; https://images1.
cityfeet.com/i2/2yHLbwZz7t-kGCDGK7ekEhZha1VTyut2twlYLvjL8bo/110/image.jpg; https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.
com/images?q=tbn%3AANd9GcSpTMlJvhYXKKtk0Hug6TD7ayjzvI4tuJ2Csg&usqp=CAU; and https://i.pinimg.com/origi -
nals/04/52/49/0452498e1cdbdd149ac6c29036c28058.jpg
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 73COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 72
Figure 4.13 - 1: Expansion  Area Future Land Use
EXPANSION AREA FUTURE USES
Figure 4.13-1 displays the future land use for 
the Future Expansion Area character area. 
The future land use map shows zoning for 
parcels. Appropriate density and other 
characteristics are detailed as well. What 
constitutes ultimately acceptable uses, den -
sity, building characteristics, and key visions 
for the Future Expansion Area is dependent 
on a robust public process, the guidance 
and goals provided in the General Plan and, 
most importantly, the current zoning ordi -
nance.
Potential Changes:
All parcels, except for those both currently in 
the R-1-6 zone and proposed as single family 
residential areas, would need to be rezoned 
to enable the land use vision of this charac -
ter area. While most of the actual use of this 
land remains the same - undeveloped open 
space - updating the zoning to reflect its 
actual and desired use will facilitate that use 
in the future. Without that update and under 
the current industrial zoning, industrial uses 
would be legally permissible on the land.
Single Family Residential Density Range:  5.5 - 6.5 du/r.acre (6.5 is maximum)
Mixed Use Residential Density Range : 6.5 - 8.5 du/r.acre (8.5 is maximum)
Maximum Building Heights: 
 » Single Family Residential - typical two story
 » Other Use Buildings - typical two story
Commercial Floor Area Ratio:  0.5 - 2.0 
Parking: 
 » On-street parking, and either back-of-lot parking or side-lot parking
 » Shared parking among entities - must meet sum demand of individual entities
 » Designated owner/resident/employee parking and guest/customer parking
 » Parking is safe and available but not the prominent feature of any parcel as 
seen from the streetscape
 » Loading and unloading areas
Other Design Features:
 » Upkept fire-wise landscaping in yards and between sidewalks and yards. 
 » Xeriscaping is encouraged.
 » Buildings in Mixed Use area are oriented to the street and the prominent feature.
 » Residences are compatible with 1930s-50s characteristics, such as:
• One or two stories
• Front porches and/or prominent front door and windows
• Bungalows and Period Cottage styles
• Residences are setback 15-30 feet from from the street
• Garages/car ports are not the central feature of the residence
 » Gridded, connected street network with complete streets: safe, well-main -
tained sidewalks and bikeways, driving lanes, designated on-street parking, 
landscaping, and street lights. Emergency vehicles have adequate access.
 » Commercial buildings in Mixed Use area provide adequate parking.
 » A trail connects the Open Space - Passive and Park Space trail system to the 
Highway (route  48).
R-1 (Single Family) (R-1-6) Zone
 » Permitted Uses:
• Single Family homes compatible with bungalow, English Tudor, or Colonial 
Revival style
FUTURE ZONES & CONSIDERATIONS:
 
Density Changes from possible land use 
changes: 
Gross: 0.05 changes to 1.29 du/acre
Net: 0.05 changes to 1.61 du/acre (minus 
roadways and utilities)
Residential: 9.16 changes to 7 .03 du/r. acre
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 75COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 74
• Accessory buildings (such as garages, car ports, or sheds) secondary to 
dwellings in size, height, and prominence, and architecturally compatible
• Gardens or greenhouse, with no retail sales
• Chicken coops
• Home Business
• Household Pets
• Home Preschool or Daycare
Open Space - Passive (OS-P) Zone
 » Permitted Uses:
• Non-automotive, multi use trails
• Recreational safety and management features (i.e. street lights, trail signage) 
• Wild, unmaintained, natural vegetation and land
• Buildings customary to open space (maintenance buidlings) that are small-
scale and unobtrusively placed and designed
• Green infrastructure for stormwater management
• Water utlities
• Emergency and utility access roads
Park Space (Open Space - Active) (OS-A) Zone
 » Permitted Uses:
• Public park, community garden
• Buildings customary to parks (maintenance buildings, restroom)
• Playgrounds, Trails, Gardens, Sports courts and fields (NOT stadiums or arenas)
MU-C (Mixed Use) Zone
 » Permitted Uses:
• Government and Insitutional, such as: 
• Post office
• Library
• Educational buildings
• Religious buildings
• Community center
• Town hall
• Fire station
• Small-scale, family-friendly Neighborhood Commercial, such as:
• Arts and crafting shop and studio
• Bakery, smoothie place, ice cream parlor
OPPORTUNITIES, CHALLENGES, AND ACTIONS
Assets: 
 » Leveled land (previous high school grounds)
 » Viewshed
 » Undeveloped land and open space
 » Intermittent stream
 » Access to Highway (route 48)
Implementation Strategies:
 » While currently zoned agricultural, industrial, and single family residential, 
desired land uses differ. Rezone parcels in this character area to reflect desired 
uses. 
 » Maintaining Copperton’s character through any new development is important. 
Adopt a street connectivity ordinance to encourage a gridded street network 
reflective of Copperton’s existing network.
 » The success of a small-scale, mixed use area in the Future Expansion Area 
depends upon well-thought out street networks, streetscapes, and building 
designs. Residents indicated that adequate parking, safe areas to walk and bike, 
street beautification, historic commemorations, and appropriate building scales 
are important pieces. 
• Revisit land use ordinances, considering appropriate design standards, 
building heights, densities, uses, and parking. 
• Adopt Universal Design Principles for one story live-work spaces.
• Insurance office
• Bicycle repair shop
• Book and hobby shop
• Live-work spaces, where:
•  Neighborhood Commercial occupies the ground floor and one or two 
apartments occupy the second floor, or Neighborhood Commercial occupies 
the street-side of the ground floor and one or two apartments occupy the 
rear of the ground floor
•  Space between live and work is clearly delineated
•  All ground floor apartment units follow universal design principles
• NOT stand-alone apartment complexes or high density residential buildings
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 77COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 76
4.14 FUTURE LAND USE MAP
The future land use map conveys Copperton’s 
desired land patterns for the future. It compiles the 
uses proposed earlier in the future character area 
maps. It is intended as a guide for future develop -
ment decisions. It describes where different land use 
types are anticipated ten or twenty years into the 
future, and it shows where different uses would be 
supported by Copperton. The actual implementa -
tion of changes to land use categories will occur at 
the time a property is rezoned or proposed for de -
velopement.
Some of the future uses differ from existing zoning 
and/or existing uses, and some uses do not follow 
existing parcel boundaries. Topography, proximi -
ty to existing development, and how much space 
the community desires for each use caused some 
future land use designations to deviate from existing 
parcel boundaries. 
All changes were made to reflect community 
desires as presented in the SWOW and APAE anlyses, 
General Plan Steering Committee discussions, the 
Amenities and Priorities Survey, the Transportation 
and Land Use Survey, and other public feedback.
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 79COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 78
COPPERTON RESIDENTS VALUE FREEDOM AND QUIET, RURAL LIVING.   To this end, 
the Steering Committee recognized the need for land-use decisions that are both 
enabling and provisioning. Policies that are too top-down feel misaligned with this 
community, yet residents also acknowledge that a lack of policies can be just as 
harmful to community wellbeing. Land use decisions should appreciate the contri -
bution of open space and park land to Copperton’s identity. Rezoning is necessary 
to ensure open space, park space, and space for desired amenities is designated.
ONE OF COPPERTON’S MAJOR GOALS IS TO BE ECONOMICALLY SUSTAINABLE. 
Land-use decisions are tightly related to economic viability because land-use deci -
sions dictate available opportunities. As a small community, each land-use decision 
impacts the achievement of economic sustainability. It is important for Copperton to 
have a concrete, achievable, and adaptive plan for land-use. Increasing sales tax 
revenue through additional commercial development is a large piece of actualizing 
this goal, and it requires consideration of where additional commercial develop -
ment could fit into Copperton’s land use fabric. 
COPPERTON SITS IN A REGION OF RAPID AND INCREASING POPULATION GROWTH AND 
LAND DEVELOPMENT. Successful planning and collaborating will help Copperton 
be ready to adapt to significant land-use changes in the surrounding communities, 
which are likely to occur. Opportunities to annex some land into Copperton may 
arise. Copperton hopes to be strategically ready to acquire new parcels, whose de -
velopment may be used to provide retail and commercial opportunities not present 
in Copperton now and which would strengthen the municipality’s tax base, or other 
desired community amenities. The land use changes around Copperton will likely 
impact transportation patterns and therefore Copperton’s access to opportunities.
4.15 OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES
4.16 LAND USE WORK PROGRAM
With these opportunities and challenges in mind, the Land Use Work Program was de-
veloped to make progress on Copperton’s land use goals. The Work Program includes 
goals, objectives, and actions, with the responsible parties, timeline for implemen -
tation, relative cost (indicated by $), metric for success, and relevant resources. The 
General Plan Steering Committee developed these goals, objectives, and actions 
during meetings and using feedback gathered from the SWOT and APAE analyses 
and public surveys.
MSD: Long 
Range Planning 
Copperton 
Home
Copperton 
ID:Improve -
ment District;  
SLCo Engineer -
ing
MSD: Long 
Range Planning 
Copperton 
Home
Government 
Live-Streaming 
Social Media as 
a tool in Urban 
Planning
MSD: Land use 
and Zoning
CH 4: LAND USE - PAGE 81COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 80
Utah Dept. of 
Commerce:Di -
vision of Real 
Estate
Utah Office of 
Outdoor Recre -
ation Grant
MSD: Copperton 
seeking an 
Arborist
NC State: 
Organizing a 
Community 
Garden
WFRC: Future 
Projects Map;  
Bonneville Shore -
line Trail
Utah Office of 
Outdoor Recre -
ation Grant
Global 
Design  Cities: 
Lighting  Guide
Internation -
al Dark Skies: 
Outdoor 
Lighting
CH 5: TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY - PAGE 83
CHAPTER FIVE: 
TRANSPORTATION
5.0 THE IMPORTANCE OF TRANSPORTATION
Driving to the grocery store, riding a UTA bus to work, hailing an Uber from the 
airport, or walking the dog – transportation is a part of people’s daily lives. As 
these examples convey, transportation involves both mobility – the ability to travel 
between places – and accessibility – the ability to reach valuable destinations 
within a reasonable amount of time. Both mobility and accessibility enable the ex -
pression of personal freedom. We can choose where we go and how to get there. 
For Copperton, transportation planning is important to uphold a safe, accessible, 
and enjoyable transportation system that enables residents to meet their needs in 
the ways that work for them. This element thus guides decision-makers regarding 
transportation within, to, and from Copperton and serves as a guide to enhance 
mobility and accessibility for Copperton residents.
5.1 STATE CODE
The State of Utah requires communities to plan for transportation. In Utah State 
Code Section 10-9a-403, the State mandates that General Plans include a “trans -
portation and traffic circulation element” (LUDMA, 2020). This element must contain 
the location of different road types as well as public and active transportation in -
frastructure, and it must connect to demographic projections and the land use 
element. For communities without a major transit investment corridor – such as 
Copperton – those communities must address linkages among housing, employ -
ment, education, recreation, and commerce.
Image sourced from: https://le.utah.gov/images/logos/legislature.svg
CH 5: TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY - PAGE 85COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 84
5.2 VALUES & PRINCIPLES
Values are beliefs about desirable states or ways of acting that guide behavior and 
prioritization. Well-regarded values-based transportation frameworks include the 
Complete Streets framework, which seeks to “ensure that the entire right-of-way 
is planned...and maintained to provide safe access for all users” (Smart Growth 
America & National Complete Streets Coalition, 2015). In this framework, successful 
transportation planning incorporates the values of safety, comfort, and convenience 
in transportation systems for all users. Values-based frameworks benefit from being 
tailored to reflect local needs. In January 2020, two Copperton representatives par -
ticipated in a Transportation Planning Values workshop along with others from MSD 
communities. 32 representatives of MSD communities developed transportation 
values broadly applicable across the MSD. The top transportation values generated 
at this workshop included “Clean air” and “Safe, user friendly streets for all types of 
users,” among others listed in Figure 5.2 - 1. Although the order of value prioritization 
is likely to vary somewhat for Copperton, this list can broadly guide transportation 
decision making and help Copperton align local and regional values.
Figure 5.2 - 1: MSD-wide Top Transportation Values
(Received eight or more votes; n=32).
5.3 RELATIONSHIPS, ROLES, & RESPONSIBILITIES
Broad thinking strengthens transportation planning. Copperton has authority over its 
local roads and their public right-of-way. Copperton works closely with the GSL-MSD 
Planning and Development Services (PDS) to plan for its transportation needs. Addi -
tionally, several entities and agencies’ transportation values and plans are important 
for Copperton’s local efforts.  These include the Utah Department of Transportation, 
the Utah Transit Authority, the Wasatch Front Regional Council, Salt Lake County, 
UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (UDOT)  “aim[s] to Keep Utah 
Moving. That includes everything from improving our roads and traffic lights to pro -
viding alternate means of getting from A to B, like bike lanes and public transit” 
(UDOT, n.d.c). Copperton works with UDOT regarding any non-local roads within and 
adjacent to Copperton’s boundaries, such Old Bingham Highway and New Bingham 
Highway. Additionally, UDOT has an Active Transportation Division that can support 
Copperton’s initiatives regarding walking and biking.
UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY (UTA)  “provides integrated mobility solutions to 
service life’s connections, improve public health and enhance quality of life”; they 
“provide an integrated system of innovative, accessible and efficient public trans -
portation services that increase access to opportunities and contribute to a healthy 
environment for the people of the Wasatch region” (UTA, n.d.a.). Copperton will 
coordinate with UTA about public transit. Communicating feedback about route 
pathways, infrastructure conditions, and frequency of stops can be useful for UTA. 
THE WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL COUNCIL (WFRC)  The WFRC is the Metro -
politan Planning Organization (MPO) that covers Box Elder, Davis, Morgan, Salt Lake, 
Tooele, and Weber counties. The responsibilities of the WFRC include regional trans -
portation planning. Copperton works with the WFRC on regional initiatives involving 
various numbers of municipalities, from two or three to the entire WFRC. WFRC also 
provides funding for various types of transportation projects, for which Copperton is 
eligible. 
CH 5: TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY - PAGE 87COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 86
SALT LAKE COUNTY (SLCO): Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering Depart -
ment provides engineering services to the MSD, including Copperton. As part of 
these services, Public Works Engineering helps to build and maintain roadways and 
sidewalks, administer encroachment, excavation and special event permits, and 
enforce stormwater (MS4) management compliance (Salt Lake County, n.d.).
SOUTH JORDAN CITY:  South Jordan sits southeast of Copperton and is home to 
the new urbanist, transit-oriented development Daybreak. Its land closest to Cop -
perton is developable. South Jordan’s land use and transportation decisions will 
impact Copperton residents, so working with South Jordan on transportation projects 
is critical. Currently, South Jordan’s transportation decisions are guided by the 2019 
South Jordan Transportation Master Plan, incorporated into the General Plan as the 
Transportation Chapter.
WEST JORDAN CITY: West Jordan borders Copperton to the east and hosts a pop -
ulation of 113,089 (U.S.C.B., 2018b). West Jordan has undeveloped land on its western 
end. As this land develops, the land use and transportation patterns that evolve will 
affect Copperton. For Copperton, collaborating with West Jordan on transportation 
projects and understanding their transportation vision are important. Currently, West 
Jordan’s transportation decisions are guided by the 2012 West Jordan City General 
Plan.
Transportation planning cannot occur in isolation. Think about streets: not only do they 
often cross political boundaries, neighborhood districts, and various land uses, but 
they also allow people to move across various boundaries. When planning for a road 
that stretches 40 miles and crosses seven municipalities, a regional perspective to 
transportation makes sense. At the same time, the perspective of each of those seven 
municipalities is also necessary for the success of any regional plans.
Alignment ensures different entities work toward compatible goals – what one entity 
does can support the efforts of another entity, and vice-versa. Alignment also opens 
up opportunities for collaboration, from cross-jurisdictional project implementation to 
funding acquisition and more.
LINKING LOCAL AND REGIONAL EFFORTS: 
5.4 EXISTING CONDITIONS
5.5 STREET NETWORK
Copperton’s street network can be classified as an early Curvilinear Loop Design, 
the street network design common from the 1930s to 1950s (Congress for the New 
Urbanism, n.d.). Copperton’s specific network is an irregular grid, in which streets are 
connected at odd angles. In this network, some streets are linear while others are 
curved. Additionally, few streets have dead-ends and most streets link to more than 
one other street. In general, the Curvilinear Loop network is more connected than 
modern cul-de-sac designs, but less connected than the traditional grid network 
which preceded it.
Figure 5.5 - 1: Copperton’s Street Network has the irregular grid pattern, the Curvi -
linear Loop Design, common of the 1930s-1950s.
Image sourced from: https://www.cnu.org/our-projects/street-networks/street-networks-101

CH 5: TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY - PAGE 89COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 88
WHAT IS CONNECTIVITY? WHY DOES IT MATTER?
Connectivity is the ability to travel more as the crow flies: to reach more destinations. 
In a more connected place, Olivia accesses her doctor’s office, bank, local park, and 
favorite café all within a mile; in fact, she enjoys a safe walk to reach them. In a less 
connected place, Xavier travels several miles in different directions to reach these 
destinations, and he must drive. Connectivity matters because it allows greater ac -
cess to opportunity. A person can reach their valued destinations in a reasonable time 
period, spending less time and money on travel to meet their needs. Connectivity has 
a positive impact on the economic wellbeing of a community (Sisson, 2019); the WFRC 
explains this relationship as convenience + amenities = financial health for a commu -
nity (WFRC, n.d.).
In more connected areas, active 
transportation use increases. This has five great impacts: 
reduces congestion, 
reduces air pollution, 
increases physical and mental wellbeing,
increases “eyes on the street,” thereby increasing safety, and
increases people out and about supporting the local economy. 
convenience + amenities 
= financial health
While Copperton has one main road, New Bingham Highway (Route 48), Copperton’s 
gridded street network disperses vehicular traffic on local streets. Multiple options 
exist to travel from one destination to another, thereby decreasing traffic loads and 
congestion on any one street.  Congestion decreases not only because cars have 
multiple routes to choose from, but also because more people can walk or bike. 
Connected streets lead to more walking and biking (Napier,  2011), and engaging in 
more physical activity improves health outcomes (Haskell, Blair, & Hill, 2009). Thus, this 
network is also an asset for Copperton in terms of active transportation. 
Some dead-ends make available travel distances further than direct pathways, un -
necessarily increasing travel time and air pollution, and contributing to congestion. 
Currently, Copperton has three disconnected streets: Copperton Circle, Solstice View 
Drive/W Equinox Circle, and Copper Water Lane. The undeveloped lands currently 
owned by Rio-Tinto Kennecott occupy enough space for a future street network there 
to have consequences on the transportation experiences of Copperton residents. 
For example, with a Conventional Cul-de-sac design, future residents may drive to 
Copperton Park rather than walk due to the poor street design and, consequentially, 
the artificially lengthened travel distance. In some places where dead-end streets 
or cul-de-sacs are necessary, opportunities exist to provide connectivity for walkers.
The red arrows show the indirect 
path to travel from Copperton Circle 
to Copperton Park; the green arrow 
shows the direct path, which is 2.5 
times shorter. When residents only 
have indirect paths available to them, 
they might drive to community amme-
nities rather than walk. This increases 
the traffic load on the highway.
Figure 5.5 - 1: Why Connectivity Matters
ACHIEVING CONNECTIVITY: RETROFITS
Think about Rome, Italy: while the buildings changed many times since the age of the 
Roman Empire, the location of the roads has remained largely the same. Given that 
street networks are essentially permanent, how can existing communities increase 
their connectivity? 
Connectivity can be enhanced at various levels. It is often possible to increase con -
nectivity for pedestrians and bicyclists without altering vehicular pathways. Cul-de-
sac cut throughs, such as those depicted in the images below, link a neighborhood 
and a shared-use path. Now, the residents of the neighborhood can enjoy the trail 
system and the river.
Another retrofit for enhancing connectivity is through redesigning the right-of-way. For 
example, if a four-lane, 60-foot road consistently supports the number of vehicles of 
a three-lane road, then that road would be opportune for redesigning. The existing 
60-foot right-of-way – with no expansion – could turn into a three-lane road with an 
elevated, separated sidewalk and on-street parking on one side. Suddenly, active 
transportation becomes viable and parking capacity increases. 
See the City of Kearney, Missouri’s Street Connectivity guide for more examples of 
achieving connectivity: http://www.ci.kearney.mo.us/pdf/Attach-to-11-2-15-Agenda-
Street-Connectivity.pdf
Image sourced from: https://www.google.
com/maps
CH 5: TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY - PAGE 91COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 90
According to the Functional Classification system, Copperton’s streets are collector 
or local roads (See map on next page). No roads within or immediately adjacent 
to Copperton are freeways or arterials. Street classifications for streets within Cop -
perton are highlighted below:
• New Bingham Highway (Route 48, W 10200 S, State Highway): Major collector
• All other streets: local roads
5.6 STREET CLASSIFICATIONS
Figure 5.6 - 1
5.7 TRAFFIC VOLUME & SAFETY
NEW BINGHAM HIGHWAY/ROUTE 48/W 10200 S/STATE HIGHWAY As Cop -
perton’s only major collector road and the only access to Copperton’s local roads, 
residents rely on this road.  Understanding the road’s conditions, including traffic 
volume, help staff schedule maintenance and prioritize improvements. Traffic volume 
data also guides the feasibility of different streetscape designs; for example, whether 
a road could be narrowed to expand a sidewalk, or whether lanes could shift to 
enlarge on-street parking.
UDOT has measured traffic volumes on this road from its intersection with Old Bingham 
Highway through the end of housing development (Copperton’s western boundary). 
In 2017 , the Average Annual Daily Traffic was 1,900 trips (UDOT, n.d.b). This was the 
same as in 2016, 100 more than in 2015, and 200 more than in 2014. Back between 1998 
and 2004, traffic volume was much higher: Average Annual Daily Traffic hovered in 
the low to mid 3,000’s. Change in traffic is likely due to change in mining operations.
COPPERTON RESIDENTS IDENTIFY TRANSPORTA -
TION CONCERNS: Despite the lack of bike lanes or pe -
destrian infrastructure, cyclists brave the high speed traf -
fic on New and Old Bingham Highways to bike into and 
out of Copperton. Residents worry when they see large 
construction vehicles flying by the cyclists (Oral Story, 
General Plan Steering Committee Meeting, 2020). 
CH 5: TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY - PAGE 93COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 92
5.8 COMMUTING PATTERNS
Copperton is located on the southwest side of the 
Salt Lake Valley. Much of Copperton’s workforce 
of 562 commutes northeast to Salt Lake City or 
West Valley City (U.S.C.B., 2017).  Other commut -
ing destinations include West Jordan (44 people), 
South Jordan (38), and Draper (32).
Single-occupancy vehicles are the most common 
method used for commuting by Copperton resi -
dents, but a significant portion carpool as well.  
Compared to West Jordan, South Jordan, and 
Salt Lake County, proportionally fewer Copperton 
residents commute by driving alone while more 
commute through carpooling. Following COVID-
19, the percentage of residents who work from 
home has likely increased significantly and may 
remain higher than 2018 values in the future. Com -
muting values are from the U.S. Census Bureau’s 
American Community Survey  (U.S.C.B., 2018c).
How do Copperton 
residents commute?
COPPERTON RESIDENTS IDENTIFY TRANSPOR -
TATION CONCERNS: 95% of Copperton respondents 
named traffic congestion and 90% identified inade -
quate maintenance of existing infrastructure as import -
ant or very important transportation concerns of theirs 
(MSD 2020 “Transportation and Land Use Survey”). 
5.9 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
No public transport stations or stops exist within Copperton’s boundaries. However, 
some residents drive to UTA’s 5600 W. Old Bingham Highway Station to take light 
rail. The station sits about 4.0 miles from Copperton. Seventy-one percent of resi -
dents take light rail at least once per year (MSD 2020 “Transportation and Land Use 
Survey”). Additionally, one resident commutes by rail daily (MSD 2020 “Transportation 
and Land Use Survey”).
Micromobility is a new form of public transportation taking route throughout Salt 
Lake County. Different forms of micromobility include:
VIA –  a van shuttle system that picks up and drops off within a designated area. 
Rates are the same as bus rates. UTA has been testing this system in southern Salt 
Lake County, and it may be viable for Copperton (UTA, n.d.b.).
Electric scooters and bike shares – these recent technologies have boomed in popu-
larity. Great for making First/Last Mile connections between home and work or home 
and the train stop, these inexpensive forms of transportation could likely expand into 
Copperton. These technologies may link residents more easily to the light rail station.  
COPPERTON RESIDENTS DESIRE IMPROVED PUB -
LIC TRANSPORTATION: 81% of Copperton residents 
expressed concern about inadequate public transpor -
tation (MSD 2020 “Transportation and Land Use Survey”). 
Image sourced from: Bing Creative Commons Image sourced from: https://www.rideuta.
com/Services/UTA-on-Demand-by-Via
CH 5: TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY - PAGE 95COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 94
5.10 ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION
Active transportation is any form of mobility achieved solely through human-power – 
most commonly, walking and biking. Roller-skating, rollerblading, and skateboarding 
are other forms of active transportation. In Copperton, walking is a common activity. 
In fact, 57 percent of residents walk regularly, with 33 percent walking daily (MSD 
2020 “Transportation and Land Use Survey”).  
There are several key components in planning regarding active transportation: in -
frastructure (sidewalks, bike lanes, lighting, road finishing material), land use (relative 
location of active transportation corridor), existing routes (where do people walk 
now, where does pedestrian infrastructure exist now), and gaps in routes (where 
are pedestrians prevented from being, where is walking and biking happening but 
unsafe or lacks supportive infrastructure). 
THE BENEFITS OF ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION
Active transportation has dozens of individual and societal benefits. Some powerful 
benefits of active transportation include:
Improved physical health
Improved mental/emotional health
Cost-savings: Reduced wear & tear on 
roads
Lessened traffic congestion
Reduced air, noise, and water pollution
Inexpensive
Supports local business by bringing peo -
ple onto the streets
Safe – driving is the single most danger -
ous activity the average American en -
gages in (Drive-Safely, n.d.).
COPPERTON RESIDENTS VALUE WALKING & 
BIKING:67% of Copperton respondents said inad -
equate biking and pedestrian infrastructure was 
an important or very important concern (MSD 2020 
“Transportation and Land Use Survey”).
PEDESTRIAN INFRASTRUCTURE: Pedestrian infrastructure is infrastructure that 
make biking and walking viable modes of transportation. It includes structures such 
as benches, lighting, signage, sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian bridges, pedestrian 
tunnels, bike lanes, and shared-use pathways. 
Copperton’s low-speed streets, gridded network, and extensive sidewalks enable 
safe walking and biking on most streets. However, no main active transportation cor -
ridors exist in Copperton, or lead outward from the town. New walking and biking 
infrastructure, connecting to Copperton’s neighboring communities, could greatly 
increase the active transportation options for residents, both for exercising and for 
commuting.
PEOPLE WALK AND RIDE EVEN WHEN THE ROAD 
CONDITIONS ARE NOT SAFE FOR PEDESTRIANS: 
Once a week, a man takes the light rail from his home in an-
other Salt Lake County community to the 5600 W and Old 
Bingham Highway light rail station. From the rail station, he 
rides in his wheelchair along the Highway into Copperton 
to meet his dear friend. Rain, sleet, or snow, he has been 
seen riding along the highway, despite its lack of sidewalk, 
street lighting, or any other pedestrian infrastructure (Oral 
Story, General Plan Steering Committee meeting, 2020).
Image sourced from: https://earth.google.com/web/
CH 5: TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY - PAGE 97COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 96
5.1 1 ACCESSIBILITY
Accessibility is a measure of how many destinations can be reached within a reason -
able distance. The WFRC measures job accessibility by automobiles and by transit. 
By personal automobile, Copperton residents can reach about 153,000 jobs (WFRC, 
n.d.). (Figure 5.11 – 2 right, below). By public transit, Copperton residents cannot reach 
any jobs (WFRC, n.d.). (Figure 5.11 – 1 left, below). Compared to other southeast Salt 
Lake County areas, Copperton’s job accessibility by automobile is below average, 
while Copperton’s job accessibility by transit is much below average. 
In 2050, the WFRC predicts that Copperton will access 249,000 jobs by automobile. Like 
in 2019, this places Copperton in the 60 – 80th percentile of accessibility compared 
to other areas in southeast Salt Lake County. Based on anticipated regional transpor-
tation projects between 2020 and 2050, the WFRC does not predict Copperton will 
reach additional jobs by transit. 
Figure 5.11 - 1: Accessibility by Transit and Figure 5.11 - 2: Accessibility by Auto
5.12 LOOKING AHEAD
5.13 OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES
Copperton’s opportunities and challenges regarding transportation fall into several 
categories: access to opportunities, modal choice, infrastructure maintenance, con -
nectivity, and place-making. 
As shown through both the MSD 2020 Transportation and Land Use Survey and the 
U.S. Census Bureau’s American Community Survey results, Copperton depends on 
single-occupancy vehicles to travel. Copperton’s demographics indicate that a 
more multi-modal transportation system, with safe public and active transportation 
options, will be increasingly important to the community.  322 people, or 31 percent 
of Copperton’s population are aged 60 or over (U.S.C.B., 2018b). Additionally, 240 
people, or 23 percent of Copperton’s population, are under 18 years old (U.S.C.B., 
2018h). 
Why do these patterns matter? Aging people may not be able to drive vehicles, so 
additional transportation options are necessary for them to age-in-community. Ad-
ditionally, families with young children value safe, walkable areas too; and, children 
have to rely on parents for rides. Thus, demographics not only indicate that investing 
in viable transportation options beyond the personal automobile will be beneficial to 
Copperton’s most vulnerable, but also that the system would be well-utilized.
TRANSPORTATION AND DEMOGRAPHICS
Images sourced from: Bing Creative Commons

CH 5: TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY - PAGE 99COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 98
TRANSPORTATION, COMMERCE, AND EMPLOYMENT
With few commercially zoned properties in Copperton, residents rely on transporta -
tion for almost all economic needs. Most residents commute for work, to dine out, 
to purchase clothing or other goods, to access health care, and to pursue educa -
tion. This makes efficient, safe travel in and out of Copperton critical to the financial 
stability of residents. Transportation connections between Copperton and Salt Lake 
City and West Valley City, (the first and second most traveled to cities for work), as 
well as West Jordan and South Jordan (nearest grocery store locations) are espe -
cially important. With current alternative transportation options, Copperton residents 
primarily use personal vehicles, which are the most expensive transportation mode 
(Misra, 2015). Dependency on an expensive mode of travel to make a livelihood 
does not bolster security for Copperton residents of lower-socioeconomic status. 
Opportunities to expand modal choice and connectivity can reduce this depen -
dency, increase residents’ financial security, and support residents’ value of personal 
freedom. 
TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING, AND LAND USE
Copperton’s local transportation network and land use pattern support people 
being out on the street: the streets are gridded with sidewalks and often tree-lined, 
and the housing setbacks and lot sizes create a human-scaled streetscape. However, 
Copperton’s land use pattern of mostly single-family residential development means 
that residents must leave Copperton to access needs met by other land use types, 
such as commercially-zoned uses like health care or home goods. Furthermore, 
Copperton’s low-density residential limits prevent Copperton from amassing enough 
people to support many public transportation options. Finding a balance between 
changing transportation and land use patterns and maintaining the small-town feel 
is important to increasing Copperton’s access to opportunities without altering Cop -
perton’s character.
With these opportunities and challenges in mind, the Transportation Work Program 
was developed to make progress on Copperton’s transportation goals. The Trans -
portation Work Program includes goals, objectives, and actions, with the responsible 
parties, timeline for implementation, relative cost (indicated by $), metric for success, 
and relevant resources. The General Plan Steering Committee developed these 
goals, objectives, and actions during meetings and using feedback gathered from 
the SWOT and APAE analyses and public surveys.
5.14 TRANSPORTATION WORK PROGRAM
Utah Transit Au -
thority
U.S. DOT: Ex -
panding Public 
Transit
Federal Highway 
Administration: 
Small Town Multi -
modal Networks
Utah Transit Au -
thority
CH 5: TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY - PAGE 101COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 100
Global Design Cities: 
Lighting  Guide
International Dark 
Skies: Outdoor 
Lighting
UDOT Technical 
Planning Assistance 
Grant
Smart Cities Dive: 
Creative Crosswalks
Example of Welcome 
Sign on Bridge
Transportation Im -
provement Program 
Grant
8 Sidewalk Principles
FHA: Transportation 
Collaboration
SLCo Bikeway 
Design
Bike Infrastructure 
Blog
UDOT: Pedestrian 
Access Manual
America Walks: 
Streetscape 
Design
CNU: Street 
Networks
UCLT: Connec -
tivity
BC Subdivision 
Ordinance with 
Connectivity Re -
quirements
UDOT
SLCo Engineer -
ing
CH 6: HOUSING - PAGE 103
CHAPTER SIX: 
HOUSING
6.0 THE IMPORTANCE OF HOUSING
Everyone knows that having a place to live is important, but the extent of hous -
ing’s impact may invoke surprise. Housing matters for health, transportation, land 
use, community identity, and economic development reasons. We spend a large 
percentage of our time where we reside. Whether eating barbecue chicken on the 
back deck with decades-old friends, reading in an armchair by the fireplace, or 
waving to neighbors from your adjacent apartment porches, our residences are 
where we make lasting memories. What housing looks like, where residences are 
located, what types of housing are offered, and the affordability of housing are part 
of a community’s housing character. This chapter synthesizes these various aspects 
of housing as well as the connections between housing and other topics.
6.1 VALUES & CONNECTIONS
HEALTH - Housing impacts physical health; for example, lead paint on walls can 
cause illness. Housing also influences emotional health; for instance, a structurally 
sound residence in a quiet neighborhood contributes to the peace of mind of the 
inhabitants. Additionally, residents who afford the cost of their housing do not stress 
over possibly missing payments. Affordable, safe housing bolsters the well-being of 
residents, and when individuals are happier and healthier, so are communities. 
TRANSPORTATION AND LAND USE - By raw value, Copperton’s housing is more af -
fordable than most of the Salt Lake Valley. In part, Copperton’s relative affordability 
is a trade-off with its location. In fact, Copperton’s housing costs exemplify bid-rent 
theory,  an economic theory that the price of and demand for real estate increases 
with increasing proximity to the Central Business District (in this case, Salt Lake City). 
Bid-rent theory  illustrates how housing is directly tied to transportation and land-use. 
That more affordable housing is typically located further from city centers  means 
those residents drive longer distances to reach jobs, schools, and amenities. Con -
sequently, residents pay more transportation-related costs, and spend more time 
in vehicles. At the same time, when real estate is less expensive, people may afford 
types of residences that they cannot afford elsewhere.  
COMMUNITY IDENTITY - Since most of Copperton’s land is dedicated to residential 
development, what those residences look like largely determines the physical char -
acter of the community. Today, Copperton hosts many charming houses in the 1930s, 
40s, and 50s styles, and that aesthetic is part of Copperton’s identity.
CH 6: HOUSING - PAGE 105COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 104
Understanding existing housing conditions is necessary to create a blueprint for 
achieving Copperton’s desired housing conditions. This section examines housing 
supply and availability as well as housing costs and affordability. Both availability 
and affordability determine whether the housing stock is meeting residents’ needs.
6.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT - When land is zoned residential and new housing is built, 
that land loses its economic potential. Throughout the Salt Lake Valley, far more land 
is dedicated to housing than any other use. Despite this, there is still a shortage of 
available, affordable housing in the Valley . Solutions that balance the need for safe, 
comfortable, community-appropriate housing with desired economic opportuni -
ties are discussed and presented in this chapter and in the subsequent Economic 
Opportunities Chapter. When planning for Copperton’s long-term future wellbeing, 
balancing economic opportunities and housing development will be important. 
IMAGINE  YOU LEFT COPPERTON AND CAME BACK 
IN 2030. WHAT DO YOU WISH TO SEE? One resident 
said, “the same beautiful community,” and another shared, 
“the history of the community” (MSD 2020 “Amenities and 
Priorities Survey”). Overall, several themes emerged from 
responses. Upkept landscapes and residences got 25 men -
tions, charming homes received 13 mentions, and historic 
character got 8 mentions.
6.3 HOUSING SUPPLY AND AVAILABILITY
As of 2018, Copperton’s housing stock is 92.1 percent occupied (Figure 6.3 - 1). There 
are approximately 26 vacant units, 6 vacant properties currently zoned residen -
tial, and no anticipation of upcoming development of land. Housing opportunities 
present themselves in filling vacant units and in the private buying and selling of 
existing homes.  Additionally, 162 units, about 49 percent of Copperton’s housing 
stock, were built before 1939. With an aging housing supply, preserving housing char -
acter will need to be balanced with maintaining safe homes.
Rio Tinto Kennecott owns all the land in Copperton that has yet to be developed, 
and as of the writing of this plan, has not expressed interest in developing its prop -
erties in the near future. Thus, supply will likely remain constant for the next several 
years. With Rio Tinto Kennecott’s ownership of a significant amount of Copperton 
land, continuing to coordinate and collaborate with the company will be important 
for future development decisions.
Figure 6.3 -1: Housing Supply Infographic
CH 6: HOUSING - PAGE 107COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 106
WHERE IS COPPERTON’S HOUSING AND WHAT DOES IT LOOK LIKE?
Images sourced  from: https://earth.google.com/web/
Figure 6.3 -2
COST-BURDENED AND MODERATE-INCOME HOUSING
Cost-burdened households pay at least 30 percent of their income on housing, and 
severely cost-burdened households pay more than 50 percent of their income on 
housing. When households are cost-burdened, financial pressure increases: more 
money is used for basic needs, with less money available to save, invest in quality 
of life improvements such as education, or deal with emergencies. Therefore, finan -
cial security can be threatened. Finding housing that is affordable – does not induce 
cost-burdening – is important for household’s financial stability and peace of mind.
Firefighters, police officers, and teachers typically have moderate-incomes – incomes 
between 50 and 80 percent of the area’s median income. The average Utah teacher 
makes $47 ,604 (Hernandez, 2019).  That salary is at 70 percent of Salt Lake County me-
dian income.  This salary means a teacher could pay a maximum of $1,190 per month 
towards housing. If they paid more, they would be considered housing cost-burdened. 
6.4 HOUSING COSTS AND AFFORDABILITY
Overall, housing is more affordable in Copperton than in Salt Lake County in general. 
The median home value is 173,800 dollars (Figure 6.4 - 1) compared to 281,800 dollars 
in all of Salt Lake County (U.S. C.B., 2018i). Median rental cost in Salt Lake County in 
2018 was 1,153 dollars (Benway, 2019); there is no rental cost estimate for Copperton. 
Another measure of housing affordability is the number of cost-burdened households, 
which rose in Copperton in recent years. In 2010, 65 households were cost-burdened, 
while in 2018, there were 90 cost-burdened households (U.S.C.B., 2018i, 2010). In 2010, 
both renters and homeowners experienced cost-burdened housing, but in 2018, no 
renters paid 30 percent or more of their income on housing. 
CH 6: HOUSING - PAGE 109COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 108
Figure 6.4 -1: Housing Costs Infographic
STRUCTURES WILL CONTINUE TO AGE. With 162 structures built before 1939, 
structural integrity becomes a concern. Maintenance of older structures is important 
for inhabitant’s safety. Cost-burdened households may require financial assistance 
to maintain their homes safely. 
6.6 OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES
Due to Copperton’s existing housing and land use conditions, it is likely that many 
housing conditions in five years will resemble today’s. Some potential changes 
include the following and should be considered.
6.5 LOOKING AHEAD
OWNERS MAY WISH TO TEAR DOWN AND REBUILD OLD HOMES. Since Cop-
perton residents value the charming designs of the homes built in the days when 
Copperton was a company town, mechanisms for allowing residents freedom in 
their living decisions while simultaneously upholding Copperton’s housing character 
will be important. Community discussions regarding the community’s vision for its res -
idential character should occur. Historic preservation and design guidelines may be 
appropriate mechanisms to balance personal choice with community history and 
character.
REGIONAL HOUSING PATTERNS MAY INFLUENCE COPPERTON’S HOUSING 
CONDITIONS. The southwestern region of Salt Lake County is growing quickly, 
especially in terms of residential development. County-wide, housing prices have 
been outpacing wage growth, and housing demand has exceeded housing supply 
(Wood and Eskic, 2018). Rapid population increases from high in-state birth rates, 
large family sizes, and steady in-migration from other places have contributed to high 
demand for housing (Harris, 2018). For Copperton, these patterns indicate the likeli -
hood of increased housing costs. If most residential land provides only single-family 
houses, then, reflecting county-wide real estate trends, housing values in Copperton 
will likely increase due to tight supply and high demand. Increased housing values 
can be beneficial to homeowners looking to sell, but associated increased taxes can 
burden households too. Additionally, Copperton highly values its sense of communi -
ty, making a transient real estate climate unattractive.
6.7 HOUSING WORK PROGRAM
With these opportunities and challenges in mind, the Housing Work Program was de -
veloped to make progress on Copperton’s housing goals. The Housing Work Program 
includes goals, objectives, and actions, with the responsible parties, timeline for 
implementation, relative cost (indicated by $), metric for success, and relevant re -
sources. The General Plan Steering Committee developed these goals, objectives, 
and actions during meetings and using feedback gathered from the SWOT and APAE 
analyses and public surveys. 
CH 6: HOUSING - PAGE  111COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE  110
1st Quarter 
2021
University of 
Connecticut: 
Open Space 
Planning Fact 
Sheet
EPA: Codes and 
Smart Growth
Assist Utah 
Funding
Green and 
Healthy Homes 
Initiative
Home Energy 
Assistance Target 
Program (HEAT)
Utah Community 
Action: Weather -
ization Program
Lead Safe 
Housing 
Program
National Park 
Service: Techni -
cal Preservation 
Services
Whole Building 
Design Guide: 
Historic Preser -
vation
National Asso -
ciation of Home 
Builders: Afford -
able Housing
Aging in Place: 
Universal 
Design Princi -
ples
CH 7: ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES- PAGE  113
CHAPTER SEVEN: 
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES
7.0 VALUING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES
While considered an optional element of a general plan by the State of Utah, this 
Economic Opportunities element is included to guide economic development 
opportunities and decisions. This element focuses on growing and strengthening 
Copperton’s economy in a sustainable and fiscally responsible manner. To ac -
complish a stronger economy, economic development goals and actions were 
developed from the incorporation of data and community feedback.
Economic opportunities are tied to land use, transportation, housing, infrastructure, 
and resilience decisions, as well as community history and identity. 
In Utah, sales tax revenue funds much of a community’s budget, and Copperton’s 
land use ordinances determine how many properties can generate sales tax. Cop -
perton’s zoning determines where which types of businesses – home occupations, 
retail, industrial development – are allowed. The level of connectivity of the trans -
portation network makes it more or less convenient for customers and businesses 
to reach each other. Copperton’s smaller population size influences the potential 
number of customers and thus provides a framework for which types of businesses can 
succeed. The aesthetics of the community, such as curb appeal and memorability, 
attract customers and impact business success. Well-maintained, safe infrastructure 
supports economic development, and at the same time, economic growth enables 
infrastructure maintenance and upkeep. Likewise, economically diverse  communi -
ties are more resilient to hazards and changes. 
Finally, Copperton’s small town culture that values hard work, peaceful living, and 
a do-it-yourself attitude influences what economic opportunities are desired and 
may be supported. Understanding these connections among elements allows a 
fundamental integration of economic opportunities planning with other aspects of 
community development in Copperton. 
7.1 CONNECTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
CH 7: ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES- PAGE  115COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE  114
WHO CAN FOSTER COPPERTON’S ECONOMIC SUCCESS?
Customers – purchasing local goods and services when possible 
boosts sales revenue within Copperton, contributes to a positive 
business climate within the community, and establishes personal 
connection among community members. The potential market 
area for Copperton includes Copperton residents, people living 
just to the west of Copperton, and residents in upcoming adjacent 
subdivisions. Services, if unique enough, could attract customers 
from outside markets.
Local Business Owners – running a business that residents consider 
an amenity and like having around benefits the owner’s net 
revenue, makes community projects possible through sales tax 
revenue generation, and, by being a destination within the 
community, promotes walkability, which in turn boosts business 
visibility to potential customers (Alfronzo, 2015).
Appointed and Elected Officials – since economic success is 
tied to land use, transportation, and many other elements of a 
community, decisions that appointed and elected officials make 
directly influence Copperton’s economic opportunities. Trans -
parent processes, fiscal responsibility, and community-informed 
decision-making produce choices that foster economic wellbe -
ing.
Other Residents – from members of the Community Council 
to involved residents, organizing events that bring people to 
Copperton and celebrate local businesses create a culture for 
economic success.
The Region – Copperton’s local economy interacts with and is 
influenced by the greater regional economy. Maintaining aware-
ness of regional trends ensures continuing relevance and enables 
alignment with the desired and offered goods and services 
between the local and regional scales.
7.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS
Copperton’s working population is considered those ages 16 to 64; as of 2018, this 
equates to 603 of Copperton’s 904 people (ESRI, 2018). Within the next 10 years, a 
large wave of Copperton residents (approximately 204 people) will be entering 
retirement age. Within the same timeframe, about 257 people  will be moving out 
of their early careers and into the (generally) more financially stable mid-careers. 
Of the adult population,  11.9 percent have achieved a college degree and 43.5 
percent have achieved a high school diploma as the highest education attained, 
indicating that a mixture of occupation types are good matches for community 
members (U.S.C.B., 2018d).
Copperton’s median income is 57 ,285 dollars (ESRI, 2018). BETWEEN SEXES, 
THERE IS A SIGNIFICANT WAGE GAP  in Copperton. Median, full-time, year-
round male earnings are 60,028 dollars, while median, full-time, year-round female 
earnings are 36,528 dollars (U.S.C.B., 2018e). This means women in Copperton make 
60.8 percent of what men in Copperton make.  Copperton’s female earnings are 
also less than the average national earnings for women – 41,690 dollars (U.S.C.B., 
2018e). 
Interestingly, this gap exists despite Copperton women working more hours per 
week (40.5 compared to 39.2 ) and being older than working men (average age 
39.1 compared to 33.5) (U.S.C.B., 2018f). However, Copperton men work more weeks 
per year (83.4 percent work 50 to 52 weeks per year compared to 70.3 percent), 
which may account for the gap (U.S.C.B., 2018f).
7.3 DEMOGRAPHICS AND ECONOMICS
COPPERTON RESIDENTS VALUE GOOD IN -
TERNET ACCESS: Bringing reliable, high speed, 
broadband infrastructure to Copperton was rat -
ed as “very important” or “important” by 87 per -
cent of respondents (n=47) (MSD 2020 “Amenities 
and Priorities Survey”).
CH 7: ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES- PAGE  117COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE  116
Internet access is increasingly important for an individual’s financial security, espe -
cially as the work-from-home population trends upward. Reliable, high-speed internet 
enables successful home businesses, home occupations, and remote employees; un -
reliable and slow internet can jeopardize working from home in whatever capacity. 
In times of pandemics, reliable home internet allows non-essential workers to remain 
home, which ultimately promotes community wellbeing. Figure 7 .3 - 1 convey various 
statistics from ESRI regarding Copperton’s internet access and use (2019b). About 9 
percent of households lack internet access, and only 9.4 percent of households ac -
cess the internet through fiber optic cables, which are the most reliable and highest 
speed method of access. Additionally, 23.7 percent of Copperton households do not 
own a computer.  The internet access gap and computer ownership gap are chal -
lenges for accessing opportunities in today’s world.
76.3 %
68.2%
25.7%
HOUSEHOLDS  
OWNING A  
COMPUTER
HOUSEHOLDS  
OWNING A  
WIRELESS ROUTER
HOUSEHOLDS WITH 
INTERNET USING 
FACEBOOK
90.9%
HOUSEHOLDS  
ACCESSING THE  
INTERNET AT 
HOME
78.3%
HOUSEHOLDS US-
ING CELL PHONES 
TO ACCESS  THE  
INTERNET
HOUSEHOLDS WITH 
INTERNET USING 
EMAIL
76.6%
IT’S THE DIGITAL AGE...HOW IS COPPERTON DOING?
Figure 7 .3 - 1: Internet Infographic
METHOD TO 
ACHIEVE INTERNET 
CONNECTION
9.4%
CABLE MODEM
FIBER OPTICS
DIGITAL SUBSCRIB-
ER LINE
Access method  used 
by the other 31.4% 
of internet users is 
unknown.
Copperton’s employment is spread out across several occupations (Figure 7 .4 - 1) and 
industries (Figure 7 .4 - 2) (U.S.C.B.,  2018a). The United States Census Bureau differenti -
ates industries and occupations in this way: “Industry is the type of activity at a per -
son’s place of work; occupation is the kind of work a person does to earn a living” 
(U.S.C.B., n.d.). The most populated industry is educational services and health care 
and social assistance, employing 149 Copperton residents. 
With regard to occupations, about one quarter of the population is employed in pro -
duction, transportation, and material moving; with the opening of the inland port, 
regional employment opportunities and career advances in these occupations may 
benefit Copperton workers. Another quarter of the population is employed in man -
agement, business, science, and the arts.  
Several occupations attract either mostly male or mostly female Copperton residents. 
For example, all Copperton residents occupied in building and grounds maintenance, 
sales, construction, natural resources, and production and transportation identify as 
men (U.S.C.B., 2018g). Contrastingly, all Copperton residents occupied in education, 
health care, personal care services, and material moving identify as women (U.S.C.B., 
2018g). 
7.4 INDUSTRIES AND OCCUPATIONS
45.0% 14.2%
CH 7: ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES- PAGE  119COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE  118
7.5 EXISTING BUSINESSES
Currently Copperton supports 17 licensed businesses, including a mixture of home 
offices, home occupations, apartment rental properties, and commercial properties 
(Figure 7 .5 - 1) (GSL-MSD, 2020). Ten of these businesses generate sales tax, the revenue 
from which provides the funds for road maintenance and other community services.  
Figure 7 .4 - 1: 2018 Employment Per Occupation Category
Figure 7 .4 - 2: 2018’s Top Five Industries by Employment Level
Figure 7 .5 - 1: Licensed Businesses as of June 2020
Understanding past practices can help current and future small business owners to 
operate effectively. In the past, Copperton has supported a number of businesses, 
such as the Canyon Market, The Pit, a diner, a restaurant featuring Hawaiian-cuisine, a 
bank, and the House of Copper souvenir shop. These businesses ceased operating for 
a variety of reasons, from the passing of the owner to the rerouting of roads to a lack 
of marketing outside of Copperton and faililng to attract a sufficient customer base. 
COPPERTON RESIDENTS IDENTIFY OPPORTUNITIES 
ALONG THE COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR: Streetscape 
beautification and improvements along the commercial 
area along Copperton’s entrance was rated as “very 
important” or “important” by 72 percent of respondents 
(n=39) (MSD 2020 “Amenities and Priorities Survey”).
CH 7: ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES- PAGE 121COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 120
7.6 SPENDING PATTERNS
Copperton’s spending patterns reflect its character and relative location as a semi-ru -
ral subdivision community. Similar communities throughout the United States have been 
found to share some economic traits (ESRI, 2017). Typically, communities like Copperton 
prefer American-made products, engage in family-oriented entertainment such as 
movie watching, spend money on children’s clothes and toys, spend money on DIY 
home projects, and enjoy hunting, fishing, bowling, and baseball (ESRI, 2017).  These 
communities spend less than the U.S. average in every budget category (ESRI, 2017). 
On average, Copperton households spend 37 percent  of their budget on housing, 
13 percent on food, and 12 percent on transportation (ESRI, 2019a). Compared to the 
U.S. average, Copperton households spend much less on food – 22 percent less  (ESRI, 
2019a). The average Copperton household spends 3,977 .43 dollars per year on food 
at home and 2,882.56 dollars per year on food away from home (ESRI, 2019c). In fact, 
Copperton residents spend about the same on food as on transportation. Compared 
to U.S. averages, transportation is Copperton’s highest spending category (Figure 7 .6 
- 1). 
Figure 7 .6 - 1: Copperton’s Average Budget Compared to the Nation
7.7 LEAKAGE AND ATTRITION DATA
When people spend money on Copperton’s 17 businesses, that capital remains in Cop-
perton. When they spend money on businesses outside of Copperton’s boundaries, 
that capital “leaks” out of Copperton. Copperton’s leakage reveals how much mon -
ey leaves Copperton for what types of items and services.  This information indicates 
the potential market for certain businesses if they were to be established within Cop -
perton. Promising markets are business sectors with low sales within/near Copperton 
and high sales outside of Copperton. The table below displays the values for the top 
three potential markets for zip codes 84006, 84081, and 84095 (Copperton and near -
by areas) according to ESRI Business Analyst (Figure 7 .7 - 1). They are building material 
and supplies dealers, furniture stores, and restaurants and other eating places. Cur -
rently, the nearest hardware store, True Value in West Jordan, sits 6.7 miles (a 12- minute 
drive) away, while the closest furniture store, Forever Furniture Inc. in West Jordan, sits 
7 .5 miles (a 14-minute drive) away. The size of these businesses’ structures influences 
where they can locate; cafés can be quite small, occupying the same square footage 
as a small house, while furniture stores generally require large showroom floorspace.
Figure 7 .7 - 1: Market Sectors and their Sales Potential
Images sourced  from: https://earth.google.com/web/ (left two) and GSL-MSD (right two)

CH 7: ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES- PAGE 123COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 122
7.8 REGIONAL TRENDS
 » Growing: sectors that are increasing in employment and more concen -
trated in the region than at the national level 
 » Emerging: sectors that are increasing in employment but less concentrat -
ed in the region than at the national level
 » Transforming: sectors that are decreasing in employment but more con -
centrated in the region than at the national level
 » Declining: sectors that are decreasing in employment and less concen -
trated in the region than at the national level
Copperton’s economic wellbeing is influenced by larger economies, whether region -
al, statewide, national, or global. Regional economic trends show whether industries 
are growing or declining and therefore where opportunities may exist. Salt Lake Coun -
ty’s Location Quotient and Shift Share analyses indicate how different employment 
sectors are doing. Sectors are categorized in four ways:
Economic opportunities exist within employment sectors that are emerging or grow -
ing; there is market demand for these sectors. Copperton entrepreneurs should con -
sider starting businesses in the emerging or growing sectors, where there is room to 
compete with those businesses on a regional scale. Figure 7 .8 - 1 places employment 
sectors into each of these four categories.    
IMAGINE YOU LEFT COPPERTON AND CAME BACK 
IN 2030. WHAT DO YOU SEE? “A gas station would 
be nice or a small diner. Not looking forward to seeing 
more new residential developments close by; I like the 
size of copperton and the small town feel is unique” 
(Copperton resident, MSD 2020 “Amenities and Priorities 
Survey”).
Figure 7 .8 - 1: Economic Trends Analysis for Salt Lake County
UNDERSTANDING ECONOMIC TERMS
Location Quotient: measures the concentration of a sector in the local geography 
compared to a larger reference geography. LQ < 1 = local concentration is smaller 
than reference; LQ 1 = local concentration is same as reference; LQ > 1 = local con -
centration exceeds reference
Shift Share: reveals how much of industry growth in an area can be attributed to re -
gional trends and how much can be attributed to local advantages (broken into na -
tional growth effect, industrial mix effect, and regional competitive effect) 
Vacancy Rate: the percentage of total units of real estate that are unoccupied
Net Absorption: the net change in occupied real estate, accounting for space vacat -
ed and newly constructed space occupied (measured in square footage) 
Leakage: capital that exits a system rather than staying in it; in this analysis, leakage is 
the dollar amount that households within a certain geography spend on goods out -
side of their home geography
CH 7: ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES- PAGE 125COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 124
7.9 LOOKING AHEAD
7.10 OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES
COPPERTON’S LOCATION POSES A CHALLENGE TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT... OR 
DOES IT? For Copperton, the marketing strategy is important.  Copperton is surrounded 
by undeveloped land, yet near the fast-growing areas of Salt Lake County, indicat -
ing there is a growing consumer base nearby. If marketed as a rural enclave and a 
no-hassle business environment, a place to find trustworthy, down-to-earth profession -
als where kids play in the park while parents shop for landscaping equipment, Cop -
perton businesses could thrive on loyal customers who value Copperton’s culture.  
COPPERTON’S CURRENT LAND USE SUPPORTS SOME ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES.  Cop-
perton has 9.0 acres of land zoned commercial. This commercial area hosts six vacant 
parcels, providing immediate commercial development opportunities. Additionally, 
the 51.5 acres of residential development allow home businesses. Per zoning and land 
use regulations, people can run online businesses from their residence, register their 
residence as the home base for consulting or service work, or have a daycare, among 
other options. The 42.4 acres of industrial development could potentially generate val -
ue in the future, but there are no known plans for developing this land.
LAND AVAILABLE FOR ECONOMIC GENERATION COULD CHANGE WITHIN 20 YEARS. 
Ongoing, long-term preparation will enable Copperton to capitalize on the opportu -
nities that arise from land use changes. Throughout northern Utah, vacancy rates de -
creased for retail to 4.2 percent and office to 6.0 percent between 2009 and 2018; for 
southern Salt Lake Valley specifically, vacancy rates in 2018 were 3.4 percent for retail 
and 4.5 percent for office (NAI Excel and Vegas, 2019). If supply continues to drop into 
the future, Copperton’s undeveloped land will be more likely to attract commercial 
interests. Deciding Copperton’s land use and economic development vision now is es -
sential to ensuring any future development is compatible with the community’s wants 
and needs. This includes using Copperton’s Future Character Area Map to update 
Copperton’s zoning to allow the desired vision to enfold.
INNOVATIVE, COLLABORATIVE SUPPOERT FOR SMALL BUSINESSES IS IMPORTANT FOR 
COPPERTON’S ECONOMIC WELLBEING.  Marketing campaigns and management re -
sources can be too expensive for one small business to afford, yet intelligent marketing 
and solid management can make or break a business. With a strong network estab -
lished among Copperton business owners, some marketing and resource costs can 
be shared, minimizing the burden on any one business. For example, joint marketing 
campaigns, a Small Business Celebration, and the sharing of business management 
resources can reduce costs significantly while achieving successful marketing and 
the development of additional business skills. Having high-speed, broadband internet 
available throughout the community will also support existing and future business -
es. Furthermore, bolstering the business climate now will help new desired businesses 
prosper in the future. 
COPPERTON’S HISTORIC CHARACTER IS AN ASSET FOR SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC 
GROWTH. With its mining company town history, Copperton is a beautiful and unique 
community within Salt Lake County. Its mining history can bolster economic opportu -
nities in multiple ways. It can add to a memorable business climate: historic markers or 
design elements can enhance the aesthetics of the commercial area. Or, an entre -
preneur could pursue a musuem or other commemorative business.
Analyses and public feedback indicate that the MARKET MAY SUPPORT A HARDWARE 
STORE, A GAS STATION/CONVENIENCE STORE, A DINER OR CAFÉ, AND A FURNITURE 
STORE. There is significant market leakage of these businesses, and Copperton resi -
dents express explicit interest in frequenting them (See speech bubble on Page 96). 
The establishment of these businesses depends on available, developable property, 
what zoning allows, and a willing entrepreneur. 
CH 7: ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES- PAGE 127COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 126
DINING OUT IS POPULAR: Residents spend al -
most as much dining out (5.0 percent of house -
hold budget) as cooking (6.9 percent of house -
hold budget) (ESRI, 2019a). 
THERE IS DEMAND FOR DINING OPTIONS IN 
COPPERTON: 28 percent of respondents would 
eat at a Copperton cafe and 34 percent at a din-
er weekly, and 52 percent of respondants would 
eat at either monthly (MSD 2020 “Amenities and 
Priorities Survey”). 
RESIDENTS WOULD FREQUENT A HARWARE 
STORE: 24 percent of respondents would shop at 
a harware store at least every-other-week, and 50 
percent of respondants would shop there month -
ly (MSD 2020 “Amenities and Priorities Survey”). 
Plus, the potential annual sales is 110,541,404 dol -
lars (ESRI, 2019c).
7.1 1 ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES WORK PROGRAM
With these opportunities and challenges in mind, the Economic Opportunities Work 
Program was developed to make progress on Copperton’s economic goals. The 
Economic Opportunities Work Program includes goals, objectives, and actions, with 
the responsible parties, timeline for implementation, relative cost (indicated by $), 
metric for success, and relevant resources. The General Plan Steering Committee de -
veloped these goals, objectives, and actions during meetings and using feedback 
gathered from the SWOT and APAE analyses and public surveys. 

CH 7: ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES- PAGE 129COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 128
SLCo CDBG Grant
Local Business 
Reciprocal Agree -
ments
Low-Budget Mar -
keting Ideas blog
Small Town 
Successful Busi -
nesses article
Successful 
Small Town 
Business blog
Kansas City 
Small Business 
Celebration
Austin Small 
Business 
Festival
Why Cities 
Should Invest in 
Festivals blog
EDC Utah;  Col-
laboration and 
Growth blog
Utah Regional 
Broadband 
Access Plans
Preservation 
Utah Tours
N/A
CH 8: INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESILIENCE - PAGE 131
CHAPTER EIGHT: 
INFRASTRUCTURE & RESILIENCE
8.0 THE IMPORTANCE OF INFRASTRUCTURE 
AND RESILIENCE
Resilience is the ability for complex systems to change, adapt, and transform, in 
positive ways and within a reasonable timeframe, following hardships and disasters 
(adapted from Davoudi, 2012). In planning: 
 » Systems include social ones, such as the relationships of people within a com -
munity to each other and to other people, as well as ecological ones, such as the 
interactions of animals, plants, climate, and people.   
 » Why do we say change, adapt, and transform? These three verbs convey that 
true resilience is when we learn from and improve upon past experiences, rather 
than returning to a “normal” that may not have benefitted everyone in the com -
munity equitably.  
Hardships and disasters comprise a variety of short and long term, sudden or gradual, 
expected or unexpected, small or large, experiences: natural disaster, discrimination, 
pandemic, economic recession, digital revolution, autonomous vehicles, climate 
change, cyclical poverty, and violence, for example. 
Infrastructure is the set of fundamental structures and facilities serving a society and 
enabling its operation. Infrastructure often calls to mind brick and mortar structures 
such as bridges, telephone poles, and stormwater drains. However, there is also 
digital infrastructure—services necessary to a society’s information technology ca -
pabilities—including internet access and reliability. And, there is social infrastructure 
too: the assets that act as a conduit to bring people together and strengthen rela -
tionships. Social infrastructure includes schools, community groups, outdoor markets, 
coffee shops, libraries, parks, religious institutions, and other physical assets that 
create a culture of neighborliness, acceptance, and connection (Landau, 2019).  
Infrastructure and resilience are tightly related. Well-maintained, high functioning 
infrastructure enables more resilient communities. Such communities have brick and 
mortar, digital, and social structures that support community members’ everyday 
lives and improve their quality of life. 
CH 8: INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESILIENCE - PAGE 133COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 132
8.1 RELATIONSHIPS, ROLES, AND VALUES
WHAT IS THE ROLE OF GENERAL PLANNING IN INFRASTRUCTURE AND 
RESILIENCE? 
Communities that plan are generally more resilient to change. Research has found 
that the best way to help communities cope with and recover from disasters is to 
support hazard and resilience planning BEFORE disaster strikes (Mercy Corps, 2019). 
How? The planning process provides a space for communities to self-educate about 
their needs and desires and to discuss difficult, controversial, or complex topics. By 
going through the planning process, including both numerical data analysis and the 
gathering of the publics’ experiences, a community identifies its assets, opportuni -
ties, limitations, and threats. The community thus develops a realistic understanding 
of where it is at and where it hopes to be in the future. This allows a community to 
maintain its strengths, realize its opportunities, transform limitations into opportunities, 
and mitigate threats – in essence, to develop its resilience.  
This General Plan uses a comprehensive, multifaceted approach to infrastructure 
and resilience at the forefront of planning best practices. The Infrastructure and Resil -
ience Chapter ties together the assets mentioned in the previous chapters (e.g. land 
use, transportation) and applies the resilience framework to them, asking resilience 
for whom, resilience of what to what, resilience for when, resilience for where, and 
why resilience? (Meerow & Newell, 2016). In this way this chapter aims to strengthen 
and deepen the work undertaken in previous chapters, but not to replicate these 
topics altogether. 
OTHER EFFORTS: 
Each chapter’s Work Program contributes to infrastructure and resilience planning. 
The goals, objectives, and actions regarding each topic, which hit on ideas of infra -
structure and resilience related to that topic, offer an implementable program to 
improve infrastructure and resilience in the community. Additionally, this plan recog -
nizes and draws from relevant strategy documents, such as the 2019 Salt Lake County 
Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan (Salt Lake County, 2019). The Hazard Mit -
igation Plan assesses Copperton’s legal, fiscal, and technical capabilities. It also 
identifies Copperton-specific hazard risks and proposes two risk mitigation strate -
gies.  
Copperton’s social fabric forms the community’s backbone. The small-town atmo -
sphere of neighborly generosity, support, and friendship weaves a strong social 
network. Without knowing each other, residents cannot know if neighbors need 
help, so the culture of friendliness and the implicit expectation that neighbors meet 
neighbors is critical for Copperton’s social fabric. While in many places neighbors do 
not know each others’ names, Copperton residents help neighbors in need, often 
without being asked.  
Residents with automobiles are known to grocery shop for mobility-limited residents 
(Oral story, General Plan Steering Committee meeting). During stressful times, such 
as social distancing during the COVID-19 pandemic, neighbors check on neighbors. 
Residents engage in acts of care such as chatting on the street, sharing extra vege -
tables from the garden, or dropping off a casserole (Oral story, General Plan Steering 
Committee meeting), which have a critical, positive impact on people’s feeling of 
belonging.  
These actions create a positive feedback loop, prompting additional neighborly 
behavior. People who feel like they belong to their community are more likely to 
extend a hand to others in need; when people feel supported, stress management 
improves, and less stressed people are more able to pay kindness forward. Support 
is crucial for getting through hard times. Copperton’s social fabric thus bolsters the 
community’s resilience. Existing conditions regarding specific parts of social fabric, 
such as communication networks, community events, and daily living are elaborat -
ed upon. 
COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
Formal and informal communication networks comprise digital, brick and mortar, 
and social infrastructures which, when functioning well, support resilience. Cables, 
wires, poles, computers, tablets, and cellular devices enable the virtual exchange 
of information. Sidewalks and roads allow people to travel throughout the commu -
nity, where they meet up with other residents in formal or informal ways and can 
exchange information.  
Copperton’s formal communication networks include public meetings, offered in 
person at the Bingham Canyon Lion’s Club or virtually via free online programs. 
8.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS
8.3 SOCIAL FABRIC
CH 8: INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESILIENCE - PAGE 135COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 134
Meetings of the Metro Township Council (MTC), Community Council (CC), and 
Planning Commission (PC) are all forums where residents communicate wants and 
needs to community representatives, and where community representatives keep res-
idents informed of projects, government workings, and other business. Both councils 
utilize social media to extend resident outreach. The Metro Township Council puts 
out a monthly newsletter summarizing key community happenings, and they also run 
Copperton’s official website.  
Informal communication networks include talking on the street, in Church services, 
at community gatherings, in the park, over the phone, or online. The community uses 
Facebook regularly, especially the Copperton Utah Facebook Page, Copperton 
Yard Sale Page, Copperton Metro Township Council Page, and Copperton Commu -
nity Council Page. 
However, there are several points of struggle with Copperton’s communication 
networks. These include discrepancies in access to communication networks and 
mobility. Not all Copperton residents have access to the internet (9 percent do not) 
(ESRI, 2019b), and reliable and high speed access to the internet varies: only 9 percent 
have the most reliable method (fiber optics) (ESRI, 2019b). While 5.6 percent of Cop -
perton residents speak Spanish at home and 94.4 percent of residents speak only 
English at home, zero residents, “speak English less than ‘very well,’” so language is a 
potential but unlikely communication barrier (U.S.C.B., 2018j). Residents with hearing 
difficulties, an estimated 29 Copperton residents, face a barrier to communication 
that others do not (U.S.C.B., 2018k). Additionally, residents are not equally mobile: 
25 households have no car (U.S.C.B., 2018i), 56 people have an ambulatory disabil -
ity (U.S.C.B., 2018k), and 25 people have an independent living difficulty (U.S.C.B., 
2018k). These factors make movement and mobility difficult. Furthermore,  39 people 
aged 65 years and older live alone, which raises concerns regarding social isolation 
and receiving prompt help in emergencies (U.S.C.B., 2018j).  
Besides accessibility and equity concerns, Copperton faces internet and social 
media behavior issues that tear social fabric rather than support it. In fact, residents 
in the MSD 2020 Amenities and Priorities Survey identified neighbor and internet and 
social media behavior as the second and third of Copperton’s greatest challenges.  
COMMUNITY EVENTS
Copperton previously held a mock emergency response event. During this event, 
residents were instructed to put paper signs up in the windows indicating the status 
of the household as safe, in need of assistance, or another status. The mock event
promoted resilience following disasters in two ways: one, preparation and practice 
encourage instinctual appropriate responses during disasters rather than panic 
reactions, and two, it taught residents a valuable hazard response technique in com-
municating via signage.  
Copperton’s three religious institutions collaborate annually on a progressive three 
course dinner event. Which church provides the appetizer, main course, or dessert 
rotates. The whole community is welcome, whether an individual is a member of one 
of the churches or not. This event encourages the dissolution of perceived or actual 
religious boundaries and buoys community connections. 
Two Bingo nights occur regularly: one sponsored by the Copperton Community 
Council and the other hosted by the Immaculate Conception Catholic Church. 
These events, open to residents and Senior Citizen residents for a fee, bring commu -
nity members together in a positive, interactive game night.   
The novel Coronavirus-19 pandemic has prohibited large community gatherings 
as of the writing of this plan. Considering the importance of community events for 
meeting and getting to know other residents, reminding residents that they belong 
to the community’s social fabric, and providing meaningful information or experi -
ences, new ways to support the community’s social fabric are necessary for times of 
pandemics. The 2020 Fourth of July Celebration exemplified community adaptability 
and is a great example of maintaining social fabric in times of hardship. Rather than 
gather in Copperton Park residents remained on their lawns to watch the parade. 
Parade participants remained socially distant from another. With this set up, residents 
celebrated and connected with each other in a safe way. 
DAILY LIVING:
Several common habits of Copperton residents support community resilience. Grow 
boxes, boxes for growing vegetables, have grown in popularity. Grow boxes allow 
residents to have readily available fresh produce. This promotes food security: if trav -
eling to a grocery store is impossible, whether due to long-term mobility restrictions or 
because of an emergency,  residents can access fresh food. Over time, grow boxes 
promote economic security also: residents save money from buying less produce 
and from gas savings accrued with fewer grocery store trips. Some Copperton resi -
dents raise chickens, which promotes resilience through food and economic security 
for the same reasons as do grow boxes. Additionally, neighbors often give away 
extra vegetables and eggs to others, supporting resilience beyond their households.
CH 8: INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESILIENCE - PAGE 137COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 136
8.3 ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
Sitting within the hydrographic Great Basin, the Basin and Range topographic system, 
and the Great Basin Desert climatic and biological system, Copperton experiences 
hot, dry summers; short autumns and springs; and cold, dry winters. Copperton’s 
location at the mouth of Bingham Canyon introduces some heavily localized en -
vironmental conditions. Most notably, Copperton lands include some steep slopes 
that are unbuildable (Figure 8.3 - 1). 
Figure 8.3 - 1
1. Earthquake 
2. Wildfires 
3. Severe Winter Weather
4. Severe Weather
5. Public Health Epidemic/Pandemic (2019).
1. EARTHQUAKE
Earthquakes are a serious threat to Copperton and other communities throughout 
the area. The greater Salt Lake area includes several major fault lines, including the 
Wasatch Fault Zone and the Oquirrh-Great Salt Lake Fault Zone. These fault zones 
run north to south along the two mountain ranges. Between 2016 and 2066, there is 
a 57 percent chance of a magnitude 6.0 or greater earthquake somewhere in the 
Wasatch Front (W.G.U.E.P ., 2016). A magnitude 7 .0 earthquake along the Wasatch 
Front could cost up to 33 billion dollars and cause between 2,000 and 2,500 deaths 
(E.E.R.I., 2015). At least 326 of Copperton’s structures are unreinforced masonry dwell -
ings and not built with modern technologies to better withstand earthquakes. In 
addition to the damage from shaking, a concern of earthquakes is liquefaction: 
when shaking causes soil to act like a liquid, leading to the sinking and shifting of 
the ground. Fortunately, Copperton sits in the “very low” liquefaction zone, meaning 
there is less than a five percent chance in the next 100 years that an earthquake will 
be strong enough to cause liquefaction (Anderson, Keaton, & Eldridge, 1984). 
2. WILDFIRE
Copperton is considered an “at risk” community for wildfires (SLCo, 2019). Copperton’s 
most northern, undeveloped property is at wildfire threat level “extreme” (SLCo, 2019). 
Other areas north of the highway have “very high,” “high,” or “moderate to high” risk 
levels, while land south of the highway has “moderate” or “moderate to high” risk 
levels (SLCo 2019). Many of Copperton’s community gathering places, such as the 
Bingham Canyon Lion’s Club, St. Pauls Methodist Church, the Church of Jesus Christ 
of the Latter Day Saints, and Copperton Park, sit in moderate zones. 
3. SEVERE WINTER WEATHER
Copperton experiences significant snowfall, yet residents regularly plow their own 
streets (Oral Story, GPSC Meeting). In a long-term study, a weather station in Bingham 
Canyon recorded an average annual snowfall of 97 inches between 1940 and 1974 
(W.R.C.C., n.d.). With one major access point into and out of Copperton, it is likely 
that severe winter storms could prevent movement in and out of town. Limited access 
is a concern regarding emergency response as well as accessing food, water, and 
Certain environmental conditions and associated hazards are more or less likely 
for Copperton to experience. According to the Hazard Mitigation Plan, the top five 
hazard risks for Copperton are:
CH 8: INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESILIENCE - PAGE 139COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 138
other needs. That residents regularly plow 
their own streets means that, in a storm, resi -
dents can create their own access if outside 
snowplowing services are slow to respond. 
However, persistent timely snow removal 
depends on individual residents continual -
ly donating their time and resources to this 
service. 
4. SEVERE WEATHER AND CLIMATE 
CHANGE
Salt Lake County’s average temperature 
increased between 1.5 and 2.0 degrees Fahr-
enheit between 2006 and 2016 (E.P .A., 2016). 
Scientists predict that Utah will experience 
reduced water availability, through more 
frequent droughts, more intense droughts, 
and a reduced snowpack (E.P .A., 2016). Drier 
and hotter weather will exacerbate instanc -
es of wildfires as well. 
5. PUBLIC HEALTH PANDEMIC
While a public health pandemic or epidemic 
ranks fifth based on the probability and 
severity of occurrence in the Hazard Mitiga -
tion Plan, one is occurring as of the writing 
of this plan. The novel Coronavirus-19 began 
spreading throughout the United States in 
early 2020. People aged 65 years and older 
as well as the immunocompromised are 
more susceptible to suffer severe illness or 
death. Governments, communities, and indi-
viduals have altered their habits in attempts 
to prevent the spread of the virus. The full 
impacts and implications of this pandemic, 
including in relation to planning and devel -
opment, are yet unknown.
8.4 INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES
Figure 8.4 - 1: 
Figure 8.4- 1: Infrastructure and Services, Part One
Copperton provides various services, either directly or through contracts, that support the community’s resilience (Figures 8.4 - 1 and 8.4 - 2)). Figure 
8.4 - 3 lists essential services, such as health care and education, that are not available within Copperton’s boundaries. 
CH 8: INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESILIENCE - PAGE 141COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 140
Figure 8.4 - 2: Infrastructure and Services, 
Part Two (above)
AGE AND TYPE OF STRUCTURES
The age and type of structures influence how structures 
hold up after disasters. According to the Utah Seismic 
Safety Commission, structures built before 1975 are un -
reinforced masonry (2016). This means that structures 
do not have modern safety features, such as steel-rein -
forcements, roof to wall attachments, and wall to floor 
attachments. Such features enable the structure to 
handle disturbances, such as earthquakes. 
•   97 Copperton structures were built in 1980 or 
later, indicating that they are built to better with -
stand earthquakes. 
•   326 structures were built before 1970 and are 
unlikely to have earthquake safety features unless 
retrofitted later. 
•   8 structures were built between 1970 and 1979 
and may or may not have these safety features 
(U.S.C.B., 2018i).
The age and type of structures impact safety and liv -
ability concerns as well. Older homes are more likely 
to deal with lead paint (widely used until a nationwide 
ban in 1978), inefficient heating and cooling systems, 
low accessibility, high levels of radon gas, asbestos, 
unhealthy water quality, and poor indoor air quality 
(Office of the Surgeon General, 2009). These charac -
teristics negatively impact physical and mental health, 
with possible effects including increased likelihood for 
cancer, lead poisoning and developmental delays, de -
pression, and respiratory disease (Office of the Surgeon 
General, 2009). Older homes generally require more 
maintenance to remain livable and to combat outdated 
standards. If maintenance is neglected, whether due 
to its expense or the inability of the resident to conduct 
the repairs, the household may expose themselves to 
further risk. 
Figure 8.4 - 3: Essential Services not in 
Copperton (right)
CH 8: INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESILIENCE - PAGE 143COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 142
Several challenges may hinder Copperton’s recovery from hardship or disaster despite 
preparation. These include outdated infrastructure, limited evacuation routes, social 
isolation, lack of economic diversity, and limited resources. However, opportunities 
exist within and beyond these challenges, including maintaining Copperton’s strong 
social infrastructure and preparing for hardships and disasters through outreach and 
education.
OUTDATED INFRASTRUCTURE – Copperton’s stock of unreinforced masonry 
poses a risk. Linking residents to seismic retrofit grants will improve structural resilience 
over time. Any seismic retrofits within the Historic District should follow historic preser -
vation guidelines too. 
LIMITED EVACUATION ROUTE – Copperton is accessed through New Bingham 
Highway, after Old Bingham highway merges into it. A major incident could block 
Copperton from other communities, preventing emergency services from quickly 
accessing Copperton.  
SOCIAL ISOLATION – Copperton’s social infrastructure, exemplified by community 
organizations as well as neighbor behavior, is strong, increases Copperton’s resil -
ience, and should be preserved. It is critical to Copperton’s quality of life. The social 
fabric brings people in and encourages them to stay, creating a positive feedback 
loop that deepens Copperton’s tight-knit community feel.  Furthermore, the strength 
of Copperton’s social infrastructure positively influences other areas of resilience and 
infrastructure; for example, the community’s dedication to helping others leads to 
residents snowplowing the community after storms. Simultaneously, social isolation 
is an ongoing challenge, especially for the 25 households without a car and the 
39 people aged 65 years or older who live alone. While the long-term impacts of 
increased social isolation caused by the novel Coronavirus-19 pandemic are not 
yet known, it likely that more people feel socially isolated. Continuing Copperton’s 
culture of adaptive, inclusive community events (whether in-person or virtual) is an 
opportunity to combat this.
8.5 LOOKING AHEAD
8.6 OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES
LACK OF ECONOMIC DIVERSITY AND LIMITED RESOURCES – A majority of 
Copperton is composed of single family houses, which limits the space and potential 
for a diverse economy. Essential services and resources, such as healthcare and gro -
ceries, are not available within Copperton’s boundaries. Increasing access, whether 
through bringing services and infrastructures into or closer to Copperton, or by in -
creasing transportation options, increases resilience to hardship or disaster. Limited 
ability to annex adjacent land adds complexity to this challenge.
PREPARATION - Preparation is the most important way to reduce the negative 
effects of hardships. Education, outreach, and training regarding Copperton’s most 
likely hardships and disasters is a priority for increasing household-level preparation. 
Multiple methods, including handouts, an online informational portal, and annual 
disaster response training can support this goal. Prioritizing infrastructure needs and 
repairs and keeping brick and mortar infrastructure in adequate working condition 
8.7 RESILIENCE & INFRASTRUCTURE WORK PROGRAM
With these opportunities and challenges in mind, the Resilience and Infastructure 
Work Program was developed to make progress on Copperton’s resilience and in -
frastructure goals. This Work Program includes goals, objectives, and actions, with 
the responsible parties, timeline for implementation, relative cost (indicated by $), 
metric for success, and relevant resources. The General Plan Steering Committee de -
veloped these goals, objectives, and actions during meetings and using feedback 
gathered from the SWOT and APAE analyses and public surveys. 

CH 8: INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESILIENCE - PAGE 145COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 144
Salt Lake 
County 
Emergency 
Management
Salt Lake 
County 
Emergency 
Management 
Plan
MSD: Long 
Range Planning 
Copperton Home
Government 
Live-Streaming 
Social Media as 
a tool in Urban 
Planning
Copperton 
Home
Copperton 
Home
Center for 
Disease 
Control: 
Disasters and 
Disabilities
Salt Lake 
County 
Emergency 
Management 
Plan
N/A
CH 8: INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESILIENCE - PAGE 147COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 146
MSD: Long 
Range Planning 
Copperton Home
Government 
Live-Streaming 
Social Media as 
a tool in Urban 
Planning
Good News 
Network
Copperton 
Home
2020 GSL-MSD 
Stormwater 
Management 
Plan
CH 9: WORK PROGRAM - PAGE 149COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 148
CHAPTER NINE
WORK PROGRAM
MSD: Long 
Range Planning 
Copperton 
Home
Copperton 
ID:Improve -
ment District;  
SLCo Engineer -
ing
MSD: Long 
Range Planning 
Copperton 
Home
Government 
Live-Streaming 
Social Media as 
a tool in Urban 
Planning
MSD: Land use 
and Zoning
Utah Office of 
Outdoor Recre -
ation Grant
MSD: Copperton 
seeking an 
Arborist
NC State: 
Organizing a 
Community 
Garden
WFRC: Future 
Projects Map;  
Bonneville Shore -
line Trail
Utah Office of 
Outdoor Recre -
ation Grant
Global 
Design  Cities: 
Lighting  Guide
Internation -
al Dark Skies: 
Outdoor 
Lighting
CH 9: WORK PROGRAM - PAGE 151COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 150
Utah Dept. of 
Commerce:Di -
vision of Real 
Estate Utah Transit Au -
thority
U.S. DOT: Ex -
panding Public 
Transit
Federal Highway 
Administration: 
Small Town Multi -
modal Networks
Utah Transit Au -
thority
CH 9: WORK PROGRAM - PAGE 153COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 152
Global Design Cities: 
Lighting  Guide
International Dark 
Skies: Outdoor 
Lighting
UDOT Technical 
Planning Assistance 
Grant
Smart Cities Dive: 
Creative Crosswalks
Example of Welcome 
Sign on Bridge
Transportation Im -
provement Program 
Grant
8 Sidewalk Principles
FHA: Transportation 
Collaboration
SLCo Bikeway 
Design
Bike Infrastructure 
Blog
UDOT: Pedestrian 
Access Manual
America Walks: 
Streetscape 
Design
CNU: Street 
Networks
UCLT: Connec -
tivity
BC Subdivision 
Ordinance with 
Connectivity Re -
quirements
UDOT
SLCo Engineer -
ing
CH 9: WORK PROGRAM - PAGE 155COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 154
1st Quarter 
2021
University of 
Connecticut: 
Open Space 
Planning Fact 
Sheet
EPA: Codes and 
Smart Growth
Assist Utah 
Funding
Green and 
Healthy Homes 
Initiative
Home Energy 
Assistance Target 
Program (HEAT)
Utah Community 
Action: Weather -
ization Program
Lead Safe 
Housing 
Program
National Park 
Service: Techni -
cal Preservation 
Services
Whole Building 
Design Guide: 
Historic Preser -
vation
National Asso -
ciation of Home 
Builders: Afford -
able Housing
Aging in Place: 
Universal 
Design Princi -
ples
CH 9: WORK PROGRAM - PAGE 157COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 156
SLCo CDBG Grant
Local Business 
Reciprocal Agree -
ments
Low-Budget Mar -
keting Ideas blog
Small Town 
Successful Busi -
nesses article
Successful 
Small Town 
Business blog
Kansas City 
Small Business 
Celebration
Austin Small 
Business 
Festival
Why Cities 
Should Invest in 
Festivals blog
EDC Utah;  Col-
laboration and 
Growth blog
Utah Regional 
Broadband 
Access Plans
Preservation 
Utah Tours
N/A
CH 9: WORK PROGRAM - PAGE 159COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 158
Salt Lake 
County 
Emergency 
Management
Salt Lake 
County 
Emergency 
Management 
Plan
MSD: Long 
Range Planning 
Copperton Home
Government 
Live-Streaming 
Social Media as 
a tool in Urban 
Planning
Copperton 
Home
Copperton 
Home
Center for 
Disease 
Control: 
Disasters and 
Disabilities
Salt Lake 
County 
Emergency 
Management 
Plan
N/A
CH 9: WORK PROGRAM - PAGE 161COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 160
MSD: Long 
Range Planning 
Copperton Home
Government 
Live-Streaming 
Social Media as 
a tool in Urban 
Planning
Good News 
Network
Copperton 
Home
2020 GSL-MSD 
Stormwater 
Management 
Plan
CH 10: REFERENCES & RESOURCES - PAGE 163COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 162
CHAPTER TEN
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
Alfonzo, M. (2015, May). Making the Economic Case for More Walkability. Urban 
Land Institute.  https://urbanland.uli.org/sustainability/houston-econom -
ic-case-walkability/
Anderson, L.R., Keaton, J.R., and Eldridge, S.N. (1984, August). Liquefaction. Utah 
Geological Survey. https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/public_informa -
tion/pi-25.pdf
Benway, D.J. (2019, June). The Salt Lake Apartment Market: An Analysis of Apart -
ment Rental Rates in the Greater Salt Lake Region. University of Utah Kem C. 
Gardner Policy Institute. https://gardner.utah.edu/wp-content/uploads/Apart -
mentReport-June2019.pdf
Congress for the New Urbanism. (n.d.). Street Networks 101. https://www.cnu.org/
our-projects/street-networks/street-networks-101
Davoudi, Simin. (2012). Resilience: A Bridging Concept or a Dead End? Planning 
Theory & Practice, 13 (2): 299-333.
Drive-Safely. (n.d.). Driving Statistics: The Cold Hard Facts about the Dangers of 
Driving. https://www.drive-safely.net/driving-statistics/
Earthquake Engineering Research Insitute (E.E.R.I.) (2015, June). Scenario for a Mag -
nitude 7 .0 Earthquake on the Wasatch Fault-Salt Lake City Segment. https://
dem.utah.gov/wp-content/uploads/sites/18/2015/03/RS1058_EERI_SLC_EQ_
Scenario.pdf
Environmental Protection Agency (E.P .A.). (2016, August). What Climate Change 
Means for Utah. https://19january2017snapshot.epa.gov/sites/production/
files/2016-09/documents/climate-change-ut.pdf
Envision Utah. (n.d.). Utah is Growing, and How we Grow Matters. https://envisionu -
tah.org/
ESRI. (2017). Tapestry: Middleburg.
ESRI. (2018). Demographic and Income Profile.
ESRI. (2019a). Household Budget Expenditures. 
ESRI. (2019b). Internet and Electronic Use.
ESRI. (2019c). Market Profile.
GSL-MSD. (2020, June). Business Licenses.
Harris, E. (2018, December). State and County Population Estimates for Utah: 2018. 
Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. https://gardner.utah.edu/wp-content/
uploads/Population-Estimates-Dec2018.pdf
Haskell, W.L., Blair, S.N., and Hill, J.O. (2009). Physical activity: health outcomes and 
importance for public health policy. Prev Med, 49(4), 280-282. 
Hernandez, R. (2019, May). Utah School Districts Raising Teacher Salaries as teacher 
Shortage Drags On. KUER. https://www.kuer.org/post/utah-school-districts-rais -
ing-teacher-salaries-teacher-shortage-drags#stream/0
Landau, Laura (2019). How can we improve Social Infrastructure? The Nature of 
Cities. https://www.thenatureofcities.com/2019/06/24/how-can-we-im -
prove-social-infrastructure/
Lewis, D. (n.d). Native Americans in Utah. Utah History Encyclopedia. https://www.
uen.org/utah_history_encyclopedia/n/NATIVE_AMERICANS.shtml
Limited Purpose Local Government Entities – Local Districts, 17B-2a-11 (2014). 
https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17B/Chapter2A/17B-2a-P11.html?v=C17B-2a
-P1 1_2014040320140513 
Living Places (n.d.). Copperton Historic District. https://www.livingplaces.com/UT/
Salt_Lake_County/Copperton_Township/Copperton_Historic_District.html
Lyman, S. (1988, October). Company Town had unique place in mining history. 
Deseret News. https://www.deseret.com/1988/10/2/18780133/company-town-
had-unique-place-in-mining-history
Meerow, S. and Newell, J.P . (2016). Urban resilience for whom, what, when, where, 
and why? Urban Geography.
Mercy Corps. (2018). Helping communities recover faster after disaster. Relief Web. 
https://reliefweb.int/report/world/helping-communities-recover-faster-after-di -
saster 
CH 10: REFERENCES & RESOURCES - PAGE 165COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 164
Misra, T. (2015, April 7). The Social Costs of Driving in Vancouver. Bloomberg City Lab. 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-04-07/an-interactive-tool-
measures-the-social-costs-of-driving-and-transit-in-vancouver
Municipal Incorporation, 10-2a-4 (2015). https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title10/Chapter-
2A/10-2a-P4.html?v=C10-2a-P4_2015051220150512
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA), Utah 
State Code 10-9a-401 (2019). https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title10/Chapter-
9A/10-9a-S401.html?v=C10-9a-S401_2019051420190514
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA), Utah 
State Code 10-9a-403 (2020). https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title10/Chapter-
9A/10-9a-S401.html?v=C10-9a-S401_2019051420190514
NAI Excel and Vegas. (2019). 2019 Outlook. https://excelcres.com/wp-content/
uploads/docs/2019%20Market%20Report%20Outlook.pdf
Napier, M. (2011). Walking to School: Community design and child and parent 
barriers. Journal of Environmental Psychology.
National Park Service. (2017). The Great Basin. https://www.nps.gov/grba/planyour -
visit/the-great-basin.htm
Natural History Museum of Utah. (n.d.). Mammals of the Wasatch Front. https://nhmu.
utah.edu/mammals-wasatch-front
Office of the Surgeon General. (2009). The Surgeon General’s Call to Action to 
Promote Healthy Homes. Rockville (MD): Office of the Surgeon General (US); 
2009. 2, The Connection Between Health and Homes. Available from: https://
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK44199/
Olympia Hills (2020). Olympia Hills Project. https;//olympiahillsproject.com
Orchard, H. (2012). Historic Copperton. Utah Humanities. https://www.utahhuman -
ities.org/stories/items/show/232
Salt Lake County (SLCo). (n.d.). Public Works-Engineering. https://slco.org/engineer -
ing/
Salt Lake County (SLCo). (2019). Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan. Jurisdic -
tional Annex: Copperton Metro Township. 
Sisson, P . (2019, June). Why building walkable cities is the key to economic success. 
Curbed. https://www.curbed.com/2019/6/24/18715939/real-estate-develop-
ment-walkable-urbanism
Smart Growth America and National Complete Streets Coalition (2015). Complete 
Streets: Changing Policy.
State of Utah Natural Resources and Utah State University (UNR & USU). (2001). 
Creating Landscapes for Wildlife: a guide for back yards in Utah. State of Utah 
Natural Resources – Division of Wildlife Resources and Utah State University – 
Cooperative Extension Service and department of Landscape Architecture 
and Environmental Planning. https://wildlife.utah.gov/pdf/landscapingforwild -
life.pdf 
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (n.d.). Industry and Occupation FAQ. https://
www.census.gov/topics/employment/industry-occupation/about/faq.
html#par_textimage_1746965162
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B). (2017). Job Counts by Home of Copperton. 
On the Map. https://onthemap.ces.census.gov/
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018a). Table DP03: Selected Economic 
Characteristics. American Community Survey, 5-Year Estimate.
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018b). Table S0102: Population 60 Years and 
Over in the United States. American Community Survey, 5-Year Estimate.
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018c). Table S0801: Commuting Character -
istics by Sex. American Community Survey, 5-Year Estimate.
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018d). Table S1501: Educational Attainment. 
American Community Survey, 5-Year Estimate.
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018e). Table S2001: Earnings in the Past 
12 Months (in 2018 Inflation-Adjusted Dollars). American Community Survey, 
5-Year Estimate.
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018f). Table S2303: Work Status in the Past 12 
Months. American Community Survey, 5-Year Estimate.
CH 10: REFERENCES & RESOURCES - PAGE 167COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 166
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018g). Table S2402: Occupation by Sex for 
the Full-time, Year-round Civilian Employed Population 16 Years and Over. 
American Community Survey, 5-Year Estimate.
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018h). Table S0101: Age and Sex. American 
Community Survey, 5-Year Estimate.
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018i, 2010). Table DP04: Selected Housing 
Characteristics. American Community Survey, 5-Year Estimate.
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018j). Table DP02: People and Population. 
American Community Survey, 5-Year Estimates. 
United States Census Bureau (U.S.C.B.). (2018k). Table S1810: Disability Characteristics. 
American Community Survey, 5-Year Estimates.
Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). (n.d.a). Functional Classification Maps. 
https://www.udot.utah.gov/main/f?p=100:pg:0::::V,T:,1224
Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). (n.d.b).Traffic Statistics. https://www.udot.
utah.gov/main/f?p=100:pg::::1:T,V:507
Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). (n.d.c). Vision and Mission. http://www.
udot.utah.gov/strategic-direction/
Utah Governor’s Office. (2020). Life Elevated 2020. https://gomb.utah.gov/life-elevat -
ed-2020-initiative/
Utah Seismic Safety Commission (2016). The Utah Guide for the seismic Improvement 
of Unreinforced Masonry Dwellings. http://www.slcdocs.com/historicpreserva -
tion/information/SI.pdf
Utah Transit Authority (UTA). (n.d.a). Mission and Vision. https://rideuta.com/About-
UTA/Mission-and-Vision
Utah Transit Authority (UTA). (n.d.b).UTA on Demand by Via. https://www.rideuta.
com/Services/UTA-on-Demand-by-Via
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC). (n.d.). Access to Opportunities. https://wfrc.
org/maps-data/access-to-opportunities/#1591727105989-c5674695-3cbe
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC). (2019). Wasatch Choice 2050. https://wfrc.
org/vision-plans/wasatch-choice-2050/
Western Regional Climate Center (W.R.C.C.). (n.d.). Cooperative Climatological 
Data Summaries: Bingham Canyon. https://wrcc.dri.edu/cgi-bin/cliMAIN.
pl?ut0699
Wood, J., and Eskic, D. (2018, March). Housing Prices and the Threat to Affordabil -
ity. Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. https://gardner.utah.edu/wp-content/
uploads/HousingBriefFinal.pdf
Working Group on Utah Earthquake Probabilities (W.G.U.E.P .) (2016). Earthquake 
Forecast for the Wasatch Front Region of the Intermountain West. https://pubs.
usgs.gov/fs/2016/3019/fs20163019.pdf
Zoning, Copperton Municipal Code, 19-14: Single-Family Residential Zones. 
(1994). https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book?type=ordinanc -
es#name=Chapter_19.14_R-1-3,_R-1-4,_R-1-5,_R-1-6,_R-1-7,_R-1-8,_R-1-10,_R-1-
15,_R-1-21,_R-1-43_SINGLE-FAMILY_RESIDENTIAL_ZONES
Zoning, Copperton Municipal Code, 19-32: Medium Density Residen -
tial Zones. (1995). https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/
book?type=ordinances#name=Chapter_19.32_R-2-6.5,_R-2-8,_R-2-10_
MEDIUM_DENSITY_RESIDENTIAL_ZONES
Zoning, Copperton Municipal Code, 19-50: Agricultural Zone. (2004). https://
copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book?type=ordinances#name=Chap -
ter_19.50_A-2_AGRICULTURE_ZONE
Zoning, Copperton Municipal Code, 19-62: Commercial Zones. (1995). https://
copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book?type=ordinances#name=Chap -
ter_19.62_C-2_COMMERCIAL_ZONE
Zoning, Copperton Municipal Code, 19-66: Manufacturing Zone. (1991). https://
copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book?type=ordinances#name=Chap -
ter_19.66_M-1_MANUFACTURING_ZONE
Zoning, Copperton Municipal Code, 19-68: Manufacturing Zone. (1991). https://
copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book?type=ordinances#name=Chap -
ter_19.68_M-2_MANUFACTURING_ZONE
CH 1 1: APPENDIX- PAGE 169COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 168
CHAPTER ELEVEN: 
APPENDIX
AMENTITIES AND PRIORITIES SURVEY RESULTS

CH 1 1: APPENDIX- PAGE 171COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 170

CH 1 1: APPENDIX- PAGE 173COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 172
TRANSPORTATION AND LAND USE SURVEY RESULTS

CH 1 1: APPENDIX- PAGE 175COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 174

CH 1 1: APPENDIX- PAGE 177COPPERTON GENERAL PLAN - PAGE 176
• Splash pad in Copperton Park (June 29, 2019)
• Make a Rec Center (August 24, 2019)
• Make a Market store (August 24, 2019)
• Have an Elementary school (August 24, 2019)
• Park surveillance between 12:00am and 3:00am (August 24, 2019)
• Back up Rio Tinto fences to improve access to foothills and reduce closed-in  
 feeling (August 24, 2019)
• Bring in old SOS Gas pump on the main road (August 24, 2019)
• Make a convenience store (August 24, 2019)
• Make land a hub for UTA (August 27 , 2019)
• Add a stage or amphitheater to park or school property (August 27 , 2019)
OTHER WRITTEN PUBLIC COMMENTS
