GENERAL PLAN 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
GENERAL PLAN STEERING COMMITTEE
RobeRt Pinon (Chair)
AndRew wAllAce (ViCe Chair)  
dAle beRReth
Steve boRSt
PAul bRown
tim hARPSt
willy StokmAn
bill tobey
PLANNING COMMISSION
RobeRt Pinon (Chair)
AndRew wAllAce (ViCe Chair) 
dAle beRReth
tim hARPSt
Jim kARkut
METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
Joe SmolkA (Mayor) 
JennifeR hAwkeS (Deputy Mayor)
dAvid bRemS (CounCil MeMber)
GARy bowen (ForMer - CounCil MeMber) 
cAtheRine hARRiS (CounCil MeMber)
RobeRt Pinon (CounCil MeMber)
nicole wAtt (CounCil Clerk) 
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT 
mARlA howARd (General ManaGer)
bRiAn hARtSell (assoCiate General ManaGer)
luPitA mcclenninG (DireCtor oF planninG anD DeVelopMent serViCes)
Jim mcnulty (ForMer - planninG ManaGer)
wendy GuRR (planninG CoorDinator)
kAte dAvieS (ForMer - senior lonG ranGe planner)
kAylA mAuldin (Current - senior lonG ranGe planner)
mAtthew StARley (lonG ranGe planner)
Alex RudowSki (senior Gis analyst)
tRAviS hAiR (ForMer - planner ii)
mARidene AlexAndeR (CoMMuniCations ManaGer)
meliSSA AndeRSon (planninG ManaGer)
Jim nAkAmuRA (planner ii)
eRin o’kelley (lonG ranGe planner)
AundeRS hARt (ForMer - lonG ranGe planninG intern)
OTHER CONTRIBUTORS
todd AndeRSen (ForMer - MuniCipal eConoMiC DeVelopMent       
   CoorDinator, salt lake County)
All PARticiPAtinG membeRS of the Public
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 6
Overview: 6
existing COnditiOns: 6
strengths and Challenges:  6
MOving FOrward:  7
USING THIS DOCUMENT 7
TERMS  DEFINITIONS 8
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS 9
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION 12
1.1 GENERAL PLAN OVERVIEW 14
1.1.1  why Make a general Plan?  14
1.1.2  Planning authOrity 14
1.2  EMIGRATION CANYON PROFILE 17
1.2.1 eMigratiOn CanyOn at a glanCe 17
1.2.2 envirOnMental COnditiOns 18
1.2.3 huMan histOry  19
1.3 COMMUNITY INPUT 22
1.3.1 PubliC Meetings  23
1.3.2 swOt and aPae analysis 24
1.3.3 wOrkshOPs and surveys 25
1.3.4 data analysis 26
1.3.5 key Findings 28
1.4.  The Future We Choose 30
1.4.1 COMMunity visiOn 30
1.4.2 COMMunity values 30
1.4.3 using the visiOn and values tO guide this Plan 31
1.4.4 key reCOMMendatiOns 31
CHAPTER 2: LAND USE & CHARACTER AREAS 32
2.1 THE IMPORTANCE OF LAND USE 34
2.1.1 state COde 34
2.1.2 values, rOles and resPOnsibilities 34
2.1.3 regiOnal CharaCter and Planning 36
2.1.4 COMMunity inPut 37
2.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 38
2.2.1 land use 38
2.2.2 PubliC/Private OwnershiP 40
2.2.3 ZOning  42
2.3 CHARACTER AREAS 48
2.3.1 Future CharaCter areas 48
Main CanyOn COrridOr CharaCter area 50
MaryField/PiOneer CharaCter area 52
PineCrest/killyOns CharaCter area 54
OPen sPaCe CharaCter area 56
2.4 MOVING FORWARD 58
2.4.1 land use wOrk PrOgraM gOals 58
CHAPTER 3: TRANSPORTATION & MOBILITY 60
3.1 IMPORTANCE OF TRANSPORTATION  62
3.1.1 state COde 62
3.1.2 relatiOnshiPs, rOles & resPOnsibilities  62
3.1.3 COMMunity inPut 64
3.2 TRANSPORTATION PLANNING VALUES 66
3.3 EXISTING CONDITIONS 68
3.3.1 street netwOrk  68
3.3.2 street ClassiFiCatiOn  70
3.3.3 traFFiC vOluMe and saFety  71
3.3.4 COMMuting Patterns 72
3.3.5 aCtive transPOrtatiOn 72
3.3.6 trails 73
3.3.7 aCCessibility 73
3.4 LOOKING AHEAD 74
3.4.1 Future PrOjeCtiOns  74
3.4.2 next stePs: rOadway iMPrOveMents 76
3.4.3 next stePs: trail develOPMent 77
3.4.4 transPOrtatiOn and MObility wOrk PrOgraM gOals  78
CHAPTER 4: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
CONSIDERATIONS 80
4.1 ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS 82
4.1.1 an integrated aPPrOaCh 82
4.1.2 regiOnal strategies 82
4.1.3 COMMunity inPut 83
4.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 85
4.2.1 regiOnal trends 85
4.2.2 deMOgraPhiC Overview 85
4.2.3 eMPlOyMent 86
4.2.4 the rOle OF visitOrs 86
4.2.5 hOw we sPend Our MOney 87
4.2.6 aCCess tO digital inFrastruCture 87
4.3 LOOKING AHEAD 89
4.3.1 Future OPPOrtunities  89
4.3.2 eCOnOMiC develOPMent wOrk PrOgraM gOals 90
CHAPTER 5: ENVIRONMENT 92
5.1 INTRODUCTION 94
5.1.1 state COde 94
5.1.2 values, rOles, and resPOnsibilities 94
5.1.3 regiOnal eFFOrts and Plans 96
5.1.4 COMMunity inPut 98
5.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 99
5.2.1 Overview 99
5.3 INTERGENERATIONAL PLANNING 105
5.3.1 visiOns FOr the Future 105
5.3.2 envirOnMent wOrk PrOgraM gOals  107
CHAPTER 6: RESILIENCE & INFRASTRUCTURE 108
6.1 INTRODUCTION 110
6.1.1 Planning FOr Change 111
6.1.2 relatiOnshiPs, rOles, and resPOnsibilities 111
6.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 114
6.2.1 sOCial COhesiOn 114
6.2.2 haZards and risks 117
6.2.3 inFrastruCture 120
6.3  PLANNING FOR FUTURE RESILIENCE 126
6.3.1 key Challenges 126
6.3.2 key OPPOrtunities 127
6.3.3 resilienCe and inFrastruCture wOrk PrOgraM gOals 128
CHAPTER 7: COMMUNITY WORK PROGRAM  130
7.1 OVERVIEW 132
ChaPter 2: land use & CharaCter areas wOrk PrOgraM               133
ChaPter 3: transPOrtatiOn and MObility wOrk PrOgraM               138
ChaPter 4: eCOnOMiC develOPMent wOrk PrOgraM                141
ChaPter 5: envirOnMent wOrk PrOgraM                 142
ChaPter 6: resilienCe and inFrastruCture wOrk PrOgraM                147
REFERENCES 154
LIST OF FIGURES & TABLES               158
APPENDIX A-L: 160
FOr COMPlete aPPendix a-l see: bit.ly/lrP-eC 160
Cover Photo: Freeze Creek Trail. Photo Courtesy of Catherine Harris.
 Page. 6         
     
Page. 7      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Overview:
This Emigration Canyon 2022 General 
Plan is the first general plan for Emigration 
Canyon since the Municipality incorporated 
as a Metro Township in 2017. 
The Plan synthesizes data and public 
feedback to assess current conditions, 
formulate a future vision, and prepare a work 
program for navigating forward from today. 
The Plan includes contextual information 
about Emigration Canyon, the planning 
process and public engagement, methods of 
data collection and analysis, five elements 
(Land Use, Transportation and Mobility, 
Economic Development, Environment, and 
Resilience and Infrastructure) and a work 
program specific to progressing actions on 
each element. 
Existing Conditions:
Emigration Metro Township lies within 
Emigration Canyon, which comprises 
approximately nineteen square miles of land 
in Utah’s Wasatch Mountain Range; the area 
is characterized by a dry, four season climate 
and semiarid rolling mountains. 
The Municipality shares a border with Salt 
Lake City to the west. 
Emigration Canyon Road is the only arterial 
road in the township. It runs approximately 
7.8 miles from Salt Lake City’s Hogle Zoo to 
UT-65, which also connects to US-80. 
The 2020 Decennial Census reports 
Emigration Canyon Metro Township’s total 
population as 1,466 residents. The population 
of the Canyon has been increasing since 2000 
at a rate over twice that of Salt Lake County, 
largely due to construction of homes in the 
Emigration Oaks subdivision, which is now 
mostly built-out. 
Despite increases in housing within the Metro 
Township, the area is characterized by low 
population densities and a vast amount of 
open space, with approximately 68 percent 
of the land in the Municipality devoted to this 
use. Many environmental constraints, such 
as slope and water quality and quantity, limit 
development in the Canyon. 
The current population represents an older, 
highly educated and wealthy demographic, 
with a median age of 47.7 and over 92 percent 
of adults age 25 and over having at least 
some college training. 
The median household income for the Canyon 
in 2020 is estimated to be $174,625, nearly 
twice the median income of Salt Lake County. 
The population of Emigration Canyon is 
predominantly White, Non-Hispanic. 
Approximately 15 businesses that provide 
employment for 173 employees are based in 
Emigration Canyon, but the vast majority of 
the work force commute out of the Canyon to 
work.
Strengths and Challenges: 
The community of Emigration Canyon is 
generally well educated and affluent, two 
characteristics that can provide an important 
foundation to build upon when it comes to 
advancing the goals and objectives outlined 
in this Plan. 
Another strength is the substantial amount 
of open space and public lands designated 
in the Canyon. Approximately 72% of 
Canyon lands are publicly owned, making it a 
veritable wonderland for wildlife and outdoor 
enthusiasts alike. 
The close proximity of Emigration Canyon to 
downtown Salt Lake City is both a strength 
and a challenge, because while it enables 
Canyon residents to easily commute to work, 
it also means the Canyon is vulnerable to 
overuse by visitors. 
Other substantial challenges for the 
community are also related to geography. 
How to consider and address development 
pressures, water quality and quantity issues, 
and the risk of wildfires and other hazards 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
associated with the Wildland-Urban Interface 
are among key concerns for residents of the 
area.  
Moving Forward: 
This Plan addresses these challenges by 
protecting and leveraging existing assets, 
planning future development around 
unique ‘Character Areas’, integrating local 
and regional planning efforts, seeking to 
establish strategic partnerships, and taking 
a precautionary and intergenerational 
approach to planning for the future. 
The following vision statement was developed 
to guide future planning initiatives and 
decision-making: 
• Emigration Canyon is a progressive, 
family-oriented community with many 
opportunities for its residents to enjoy 
active, healthy, and modern lifestyles. 
• Emigration Canyon is comprised of 
distinct neighborhoods with residents 
who are dedicated to fostering a sense of 
community and are actively involved in 
public activities. 
• Emigration Canyon is a nationally 
recognized historic landmark and its 
residents embrace that heritage. 
• Emigration Canyon residents enjoy 
and value the Canyon’s many excellent, 
cherished, well-maintained recreational 
amenities.
• Emigration Canyon residents are 
committed to maintaining and protecting 
the Canyon’s important ecosystems and 
resources. 
This vision statement is further supported 
by actions included in the Community Work 
Programs included with each element. 
This Plan is intended to guide Emigration 
Canyon forward for the next five years, after 
which point the Plan will be re-evaluated to 
ensure that it continues to meet the needs of 
the community. 
Thank you to all the elected officials, 
community leaders, and members of 
the public who contributed to this Plan!
This General Plan is divided into seven 
chapters that describe the vision and a plan 
forward for Emigration Canyon. Together, 
these chapters build a foundation from 
which the Municipality can adopt programs 
and policies that support the values held by 
Emigration Canyon residents. 
Each chapter includes an analysis of 
existing conditions related to that topic and 
a description of the community’s feedback, 
vision, and goals related to that topic. At 
the end of each chapter, a Work Program is 
included to provide a series of steps that the 
Municipality could take in order to achieve its 
envisioned future. Explanations of underlying 
planning concepts are interspersed 
throughout the Plan (look for blue boxes or 
panels such as the one found on page 10). 
Although subjects are divided into distinct 
chapters or elements in this General Plan, they 
remain tightly interwoven, so that common 
themes emerge across the document. 
CHAPTER 1:   Introduction
This chapter introduces the; “when, why, and 
how?” of the General Plan. It explains the need 
for a General Plan, State Code Requirements, 
and the methodology used to prepare this 
Plan for Emigration Canyon.
CHAPTER 2:    Land Use & Character 
Areas
This chapter is required by Utah State Code 
and addresses questions such as How is 
our land currently used? How are land uses 
changing? How should land be used in the 
future to meet the needs and desires of our 
community? 
USING THIS DOCUMENT
 Page. 8         
     
Page. 9      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
This General Plan is intended to be actionable. 
Towards that end, the Plan breaks down 
high-level priorities and strategies into 
implementable pieces. The following terms 
and definitions are important to understand 
in using the document for implementation: 
Vision: A description of the “preferred future”; 
a statement that describes how the future 
will look if the issues that are important to the 
community are perfectly addressed. 
Values: Beliefs about desirable states or 
modes of conduct that guide behavior and 
prioritization of goals and objectives. 
Goals: Broad qualitative statements about 
what the organization hopes to achieve by 
following the General Plan.   
Objectives: Statements regarding how 
improvements will take place and therefore 
tend to be quantitative in nature. Usually 
begin with something akin to “increase” or 
“decrease.”
Actions:  An approach or method for 
attaining objectives and resolving specific 
issues. Generally start with a verb.
Policies: Statements that inform elected 
officials and decision-makers. Should provide 
a path towards achieving goals.   
Programs: Intentional, structured and 
supported efforts to progress the attainment 
of goals. 
Metric: A system or standard of 
measurement or evaluation that can be used 
to assess progress toward meeting goals.
A glossary is also included in Appendix A 
of this document, to provide readers with 
definitions of key terms used in the Plan. 
TERMS  DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 3:   Transportation & 
Mobility
This chapter is required by Utah State Code 
and considers street classifications, regional 
use and planning implications, and future 
transportation projects that will help to 
progress the needs and interests of canyon 
residents and visitors. Questions such as; Can 
residents effectively access their daily needs 
using the transportation system? How are 
our transportation patterns changing? How 
should we prepare for future transportation 
and mobility needs? are addressed. 
CHAPTER 4:   Economic 
Development Considerations
This chapter is not required by Utah State 
Code but is important for ensuring the 
future success and financial sustainability 
of the Municipality. The chapter addresses 
questions such as What is the state of 
the local economy? What regional trends 
are impacting our market? What kinds of 
economic opportunities would be appropriate 
to encourage in the area? 
CHAPTER 5:   Environment
This chapter is not required by Utah State 
Code but is needed to guide decision making 
to ensure that environmental protections are 
in place and a high environmental quality 
is maintained in the Canyon today, and for 
future generations.
CHAPTER 6:   Resilience & 
Infrastructure
This chapter is not required by Utah State 
Code but is important for ensuring the 
preparedness and adaptive capacity of the 
Municipality. The chapter addresses questions 
such as How cohesive is the Emigration 
Canyon community? What hazards are the 
greatest risk to the area? How can we become 
more resilient to hazards and changes? 
CHAPTER 7:    Community Work 
Program
This chapter summarizes the work plans 
(including goals, objectives, and actions) from 
the previous chapters.    
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
AADT – Annual Average Daily Traffic
AASHTO – American Association of State Highway and 
Transportation Officials
APAE – Achieve, Preserve, Avoid, and Eliminate analysis 
BEAR – Business Expansion and Retention programs
BWA – Balsam Woolly Adelgid
Camp K – Camp Kostopulos/Kostopulos Dream Foundation 
CARES Act – Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security
ECCC – Emigration Canyon Community Council
EC Metro – Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council 
COVID-19 – Novel Coronavirus
DEQ – Utah Department of Environmental Quality’s
DNR – Utah Department of Natural Resources
EAS – National Emergency Alert System
EID – Emigration Canyon Improvement District
E. coli – Escherichia coli
ECRIC – Emigration Canyon Roadway Improvement Committee
Emigration Canyon – Emigration Canyon Metro Township
Engineering – Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering 
Department
EPA – United States Environmental Protection Agency
FCOZ – Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
FEMA – Federal Emergency Management Agency
GPSC – Emigration Canyon Metro Township General Plan Steering 
Committee 
HOA – Homeowners Association 
IDA – International Dark-Sky Association
LRP – Long Range Planning Team (MSD, PDS) 
MPO – Metropolitan Planning Organization
MSD – Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District 
the Municipality – Emigration Canyon Metro Township 
NACTO – National Association of City Transportation Officials
NOAA – National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
PC – Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission 
PDS – Planning and Development Services Department (MSD) 
SLC – Salt Lake City 
SLCDPU – Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities
SLCo – Salt Lake County 
SWOT – Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats Analysis 
TMDL – Total Maximum Daily Load
UDOT – Utah Department of Transportation
UFA – Unified Fire Authority 
UoL – Utah Open Lands Conservation Association
UPD – Unified Police Department
USDA – United States Department of Agriculture
USGS – United States Geological Survey
USFS – United States Forest Service 
UTA – Utah Transit Authority
WFRC – Wasatch Front Regional Council 
WUI – Wildland-Urban Interface
 Page. 10         
     
Page. 11      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Fall mountain view. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
 Page. 12         
     
Page. 13      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
CHAPTER 1: 
INTRODUCTION
Little Mountain Summit Sign.  Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
A General Plan is an advisory policy document that outlines 
the long-range vision, priorities, and intentions for a place 
such as a municipality or a city. Through the planning process, 
existing conditions are examined, desired future conditions 
are established, and a path is laid out to bring a community 
from its present state to its envisioned future. Decision-makers, 
residents, and other stakeholders can and should use the 
General Plan to coordinate and implement decisions about 
land use, infrastructure, parks, recreation and open space, city 
services, housing supply and affordability, and other public 
resources. As such, the General Plan is a living, fluid document 
that should be regularly reviewed and updated.
What is a General Plan? 
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION 12
1.1 GENERAL PLAN OVERVIEW 14
1.1.1  why Make a general Plan?  14
1.1.2  Planning authOrity 14
1.2  EMIGRATION CANYON PROFILE 17
1.2.1 eMigratiOn CanyOn at a glanCe 17
1.2.2 envirOnMental COnditiOns 18
1.2.3 huMan histOry  19
1.3 COMMUNITY INPUT 22
1.3.1 PubliC Meetings  23
1.3.2 swOt and aPae analysis 24
1.3.3 wOrkshOPs and surveys 25
1.3.4 data analysis 26
1.3.5 key Findings 28
1.4.  The Future We Choose 30
1.4.1 COMMunity visiOn 30
1.4.2 COMMunity values 30
1.4.3 using the visiOn and values tO guide this Plan 31
1.4.4 key reCOMMendatiOns 31
 Page. 14         
     
Page. 15      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
1.1 GENERAL PLAN OVERVIEW
1.1.1  Why Make a General Plan? 
Municipalities make plans for many reasons. 
The main purpose of a General Plan is to aid 
a community in defining and achieving its 
desired future. More specifically, municipalities 
make General Plans because: 
Plans strengthen community autonomy; by 
establishing a community vision, priorities, 
and goals, communities avoid change “just 
happening” to them. 
Plans enhance decision-making: syncing 
data, local knowledge, and on-the-ground     
conditions     enable     decisions to be 
comprehensively informed. 
With plans, communities can bolster 
strengths, achieve goals, and minimize and 
re-solve problems and threats. 
Through the establishment of common goals, 
the planning process brings together various 
community members. 
Utah State Code 10-9a-401 requires each 
municipality in Utah to prepare a General 
Plan.
1.1.2  Planning Authority
Emigration Canyon Metro Township (also 
referred to as Emigration Canyon, the 
Canyon, or the Municipality throughout this 
Plan) became an independent municipality 
with its own governing authority by a vote of 
the residents of Emigration Canyon in 2015. 
Incorporation took place in 2017. Emigration 
Canyon boundaries and key points of interest 
are shown in Figure 1.1. 
The Municipality is governed by an elected 
legislative council, the Emigration Canyon 
Metro Township Council (EC Metro). This 
group has the authority to enact laws and 
ordinances to carry out its responsibilities 
such as land use and development regulations 
(zoning) as long as these laws and ordinances 
are consistent with the Utah Municipal Code 
and other state statutes. Emigration Canyon 
has all the municipal powers allocated by the 
Utah Municipal Code with the exception of 
certain powers of taxation. The Municipality 
does not have the power to enact a property 
tax or municipal energy taxes. One member 
of the EC Metro is selected by the others to be 
the Mayor. The Mayor is the chief executive 
officer of the Municipality. 
Emigration Canyon is a member of the 
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District 
(MSD). The MSD provides the Municipality 
with planning and development services 
as part of its membership agreement. The 
EC Metro appoints a Planning Commission 
(PC) and a General Plan Steering Committee 
(GPSC) to work with MSD Long Range 
Planners on the development of Emigration 
Canyon’s General Plan. The GPSC and PC 
make recommendations to the EC Metro 
regarding the adoption and amendment of 
the General Plan. The EC Metro can adopt, 
reject, or revise a recommended General Plan. 
See Figure 1.2 for an overview of the general 
planning process and Figure 1.3 for a detailed 
timeline.
Figure 1.2:  The general planning process shown 
with involved parties (adapted from Utah 
Department of Workforce Services, 2018). 
Utah State Code Section 10-9a-401 
requires every county and municipality 
to have a long-range general plan in 
order to provide for the health, safety, 
and welfare of each community and its 
residents. Section 10-9a-403 of the code 
outlines the components that can be 
included in a general plan. Land use and 
transportation elements are required 
for all counties and municipalities. 
Many additional elements are also 
frequently included in general plans. 
Such sections may cover housing, 
economic development, infrastructure, 
natural hazards and resilience, or the 
environment. 
Land Use: “The General Plan shall 
designate the long-term goals and the 
proposed extent, general distribution, 
and  location  of  land  for  housing,  
business,  industry,  agriculture,  
recreation,  education,  public  buildings  
and  grounds, open space, and other 
categories of public and private  uses  of  
land  as  appropriate;  and  may  include  
a  statement  of  the  projections  for  and  
standards  of  population density and 
building intensity recommended for the 
various land use categories covered by 
the plan. ” 
Transportation:  “The  General  Plan  shall  
provide  a  transportation  and  traffic  
circulation  element  consisting  of   the   
general   location   and   extent   of   existing   
and   proposed  freeways,  arterial  and  
collector  streets,  mass  transit,  and  any  
other  modes  of  transportation  that  
the   planning   commission   considers   
appropriate,   all   correlated   with   
the   population   projections   and   the   
proposed land use element of the general 
plan. ”
Is a General Plan Required? 
Cycling to Little Dell Reservoir.  Photo Courtesy of  Chaunceton, www.redit.com.
 Page. 16         
     
Page. 17      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Turning Goals Into Actions
Wildflowers on mountainside, Emigration Canyon. Photo credit by b.brelje is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 2.0.
Goals are important because they 
guide us towards implementing the 
community vision. However, goals on 
their own are not enough: while they 
indicate where a community aims to be, 
they do not explain how a community 
can get there, or how progress will be 
measured along the way. 
This plan is meant to be useful for 
elected and appointed officials, 
property owners, developers, and other 
community members; as such, it needs 
to be implementable. 
Objectives clarify the direction of 
progress that is expected in order to 
move towards goal attainment; words 
such as “increase” or “decrease” will 
commonly be used to lay out the Plan 
objectives. 
Actions are the method through which 
community goals can be realized. 
Actions lay out a path from today 
towards the vision for tomorrow. In 
this plan, the Work Program lists the 
actions necessary for the Emigration 
Canyon community to take in order to 
accomplish the goals and make progress 
towards the community vision. Actions 
range from forming partnerships, to 
collaborating on tasks, to applying for 
grants, to conducting public outreach, 
and much more. 
The Work Program  also answers 
questions such as who is responsible for 
the action, when does the action need 
to take place, and approximately how 
much will the action cost; such details 
make the Work Program clear and more 
achievable. After the General Plan is 
adopted, the responsible parties named 
in the Work Program can look to the 
Work Program to guide their next steps. 
The Work Program can also be used to 
review and evaluate progress toward 
achieving the community goals and 
implementing the community vision.   
1.2  EMIGRATION CANYON PROFILE
Emigration Canyon comprises approximately 
19 square miles of land in Utah’s Wasatch 
Mountain Range. The Municipality shares 
a border with Salt Lake City to the West. 
Emigration Canyon Road is the only arterial 
road in the Municipality. It runs approximately 
7.8 miles from Salt Lake City’s Hogle Zoo to 
UT-65, which also connects to I-80 (See Figure 
1.1). 
The population of Emigration Canyon in 
2020 is estimated to be 1,466 (Figure 1.3; 
Esri, 2020). The area also serves as an 
important recreational destination for bikers, 
hikers, and wildlife viewers from neighboring 
municipalities in the Salt Lake Valley.
1.2.1 Emigration Canyon at a 
Glance
The 2020 population estimate for Emigration 
Canyon is 1,466 (Figure 1.3; Esri, 2020). 
The population of the Canyon has been 
increasing since 2000 at a rate over twice 
that of Salt Lake County but has shown since 
of stabilization in recent years.   This trend is 
largely due to construction of homes in the 
Emigration Oaks subdivision. The population 
represents an older demographic, with a 
median age of 47.7. This older demographic 
is likely to have implications for long-range 
planning in the Metro Township, as more 
than 24 percent of residents are expected 
to be over 65 by the year 2024. During that 
same time period, the population of children Figure 1.3: Key statistics for Emigration Canyon (Esri, 2020). 
1,466
 Page. 18         
     
Page. 19      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
under the age of 18 is expected to increase 
to approximately 22 percent. Emigration 
Canyon is a highly educated and affluent 
population. Over 92 percent of adults age 
25 and over have had at least some college 
training, and the median household income 
for the Canyon in 2020 is estimated to be 
$174,625, nearly twice the median income 
of Salt Lake County. Household size has 
been decreasing in the Township, with the 
average household size estimated at 2.6 in 
2020. The population of Emigration Canyon 
is predominantly White, Non-Hispanic. In 
upcoming years, the percentage of residents 
reporting that they belong to a minority 
race or ethnicity is expected to increase, but 
not at the rate of increase expected in Salt 
Lake County at large. Approximately 15 
businesses that provide employment for 173 
employees are based in Emigration Canyon. 
Historically, the vast majority of the work force 
have commuted out of the Canyon to work. 
Recent “Remote Work” trends may reduce the 
percentage of persons commuting out of the 
canyon on a regular basis to accommodate 
employment requirements.  
1.2.2  Environmental Conditions
Emigration Canyon is located within the 
Semiarid Foothills ecoregion demarcated by 
the United States Department of Agriculture 
(USGS, 2000). This area is characterized 
by a dry, four season climate and semiarid 
rolling mountains. Emigration Canyon’s 
environmental conditions and ecological 
systems should be given careful consideration 
when any development is proposed. 
Emigration Canyon’s climate, like Salt Lake 
County and the rest of the southwestern 
United States, is very dry. Emigration Canyon 
has moderately hot summers and cold winters. 
July is typically the hottest time of the year, 
with an average high of around 90 degrees; 
the average low in January is approximately 
22 degrees. The average annual precipitation 
is around 23 inches (Best Places, 2020). 
Elevations in Emigration Canyon range 
from about 5,100 feet near the mouth of the 
canyon to just over 8,900 feet at the summit 
of Lookout Peak along the northern township 
boundary. Much of the canyon is dominated 
by lands where slopes exceed 30 percent. 
Emigration Canyon has varied topography 
and a variety of vegetation zones which 
correlate to slope, elevation and soil types. 
The foothill communities located at the lower 
part of the Canyon are dominantly scrub oak 
of various varieties. Scrub oak is the most 
extensive plant community in the canyon 
environment. It begins in the lower foothills 
at about 5,000 feet and covers most of the 
areas up to about 7,500 feet. Streamside 
communities are dominated by maple, 
chokecherry, birch, alder, and cottonwood. 
Many varieties of deciduous shrubs are also 
found in this community. Rising in elevation, 
plant communities are dominated by aspen, 
fir, and spruce. At higher elevations, the 
most abundant trees are the Douglas  Fir, 
Englemann Spruce and Alpine Fir. Above 
the timberline, at high elevation, a variety of 
shrubs dominate the vegetation pattern. 
Fall splendor. Photo courtesy of Katie Cook Oborn.
1.2.3  Human History 
The rich history of Emigration Canyon has 
strongly influenced the present community. 
Even before Mormon pioneers trekked 
through Emigration Canyon on their way to 
settle the Salt Lake Valley, native peoples were 
relying on the Canyon’s water supply and 
abundant wildlife for sustenance. Although 
there is little evidence that these early 
populations lived permanently in Emigration 
Canyon, it is believed by researchers that both 
Ute and Shoshone tribes hunted the Canyon’s 
forest and fished the Emigration Creek, once 
heavily populated with trout (Carlstrom & 
Furse, 2019). Residents have even discovered 
arrowheads buried on their properties (ibid). 
Although first discovered and cultivated 
by early native tribes, Emigration Canyon 
derives its name from the many pioneers who 
passed through it as they ‘emigrated’ to the 
Salt Lake Valley and beyond. The Donner-
Reed party was one of the first and most 
notable early groups of emigrants, traveling 
the canyon in 1846, as a part of their ill-fated 
journey on the Hasting’s Cutoff (Carlstrom & 
Furse, 2019). And in July of 1847, Mormon 
refugees from the east made their final camp 
in Emigration Canyon before descending into 
the Salt Lake Valley, the place that they would 
ultimately stay and make their home (ibid). As 
they established their new civilization in the 
valley, the Canyon became a path for future 
travelers, mail, and freight, as well as the 
source of timber and stone for building.
Over time, several businesses established 
themselves in Emigration Canyon, including 
the Wagener Brewery (1864-1914), Pinecrest 
Inn (1913-1949), and the famous Ruth’s Diner 
(1949-Present). 
These businesses took advantage of Salt 
Lake residents craving an escape into the 
cooler temperatures of the Canyon, as well 
as the more lenient laws that came because 
of their location outside of City boundaries 
(Carlstrom & Furse, 2019). 
From 1907 to 1917, the Emigration Canyon 
Railroad operated between Salt Lake City and 
quarries at the top of the Canyon. Although 
the original purpose of the rail line was to 
carry heavy stone from the mountain quarries 
down into the City for building, the advent 

 Page. 20         
     
Page. 21      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
of Portland Cement soon made the stone 
industry obsolete, and the railroad began to 
primarily serve passengers (ibid). Residents 
of Salt Lake Valley could take the train from 
the City up into the alpine territories of the 
Canyon to enjoy fishing, hiking, and picnicking. 
Eventually, the presence of the train led to 
further development of the Canyon. Streetcar 
suburbs popped up near train stops, and the 
Pinecrest Inn (see Figure 2) was built near the 
end of the line to accommodate guests with 
overnight lodging, food, and entertainment 
(ibid). Although the Emigration Canyon 
Railroad was financially unsustainable and 
dismantled after just ten years, the Canyon 
continued to thrive. The land that had been 
cleared for the railroad tracks provided 
automobile access, and residents from the 
surrounding valleys continued to establish 
summer cabins throughout the Canyon’s 
wilderness.
Autonomy has long been a core value of the 
Emigration Canyon community. In 1950, the 
Emigration Canyon Planning District formed 
to represent the many interests of residents, 
namely water quality, litter pick-up, wilderness 
preservation, and maintenance of the 
Canyon’s low cost of living (Carlstrom & Furse, 
2019). Very early on, the Planning District 
decided to implement a zoning structure 
which significantly limited opportunities for 
commercial development in the Canyon - an 
attempt to preserve the quiet and natural 
environment that had drawn residents 
to settle in the area. Attempts to expand 
development in the canyon have consistently 
met with resistance from canyon residents 
over the years (see Carlstrom & Furse, 2019 
for several examples). Since then, the Canyon 
has continued to show ownership over its own 
planning and decision-making, and several 
community interest groups (e.g. Emigration 
Canyon Community Council, Emigration 
Canyon Sustainability Alliance) have formed 
over the years to address issues facing life in 
the Canyon (e.g. littering, water pollution, fire 
danger, vandalism, and growth pressures). In 
2017, Emigration Canyon was incorporated 
as a Metro Township and continues to be 
served by a Metro Township Council and 
Planning Commission.
Today, Emigration Canyon is beloved both by 
residents and visitors. It is frequented by hikers 
and bikers looking for refuge in the open lands 
surrounding the Salt Lake Valley. Although 
the environment has been altered by humans, 
it is still possible to see coyote, mule deer, elk, 
rattlesnakes, fox, porcupine, cougars, bobcats, 
moose, and several species of bird (Carlstrom 
& Furse, 2019). 
Formal and informal recreational 
opportunities abound, including Camp 
Kostopulos, which has existed in Emigration 
Canyon since 1971 and provides recreational, 
educational, and personal development 
opportunities for persons of all abilities 
(Kostopulos Dream Foundation, 2019). Since 
1961, Emigration Canyon has also been 
recognized as a National Historic Landmark, 
symbolizing the uniqueness of this Canyon 
and its importance to the surrounding Salt 
Lake Valley.
Photo Credits:
Page 19:  Old pioneer drawing of pioneer seeing the Salt Lake Valley for the first time from 
Emigration Canyon. Photo Courtesy of the Utah Division of State History | Road to Zion sign. 
Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander | Donner Hill sign. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander | 
Wagener’s Imperial Beer sign, January 1913, Clipping found in Goodwins’s Weekly.
Page 20: Ruth’s Diner front door. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander | Emigration Canyon 
Railroad. Photo Courtesy of the Utah Division of State History.
Page 21:  Pinecrest Inn. Photo Courtesy of the Utah Division of 
State History | Camp Kostopulos. Photo Courtesy of the Utah 
Division of State History.

 Page. 22         
     
Page. 23      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
This General Plan was developed using 
a participatory approach that engaged 
members of the Emigration Canyon 
community in planning for the future of the 
Municipality. 
Details on this process are provided in the 
subsections that follow. All elements of the 
Plan were developed with guidance and input 
from the Emigration Canyon Metro Township 
General Plan Steering Committee (GPSC), a 
group composed of Planning Commissioners 
(PCs) and other dedicated local residents 
appointed by the Metro Township Council 
(EC Metro). Public meetings held over 18 
months included 30 GPSC meetings, nine 
PC meetings, and ten EC Metro meetings in 
which general planning content, progress and 
direction was discussed with planning staff  
(Figure 1.4). 
Wider public input on key elements of the Plan 
was also gathered from a workshop and a 
survey, in addition to statutory requirements 
that allow for input during meetings and 
hearings.   
A Participatory Approach to Planning
The planning process used to develop this 
General Plan relied on a participatory, 
community-engaged approach to planning 
and decision making. Table 1.1 highlights just 
a few of the benefits of engaging citizens in 
government decisions in this way.
Involving the public in the planning process 
1.3 COMMUNITY INPUT
Transportation Planning Workshop at the Salt Lake County Government Center. Photo courtesy of MSD Long-Range Planning Team.
means that residents are able to share their 
unique community-based knowledge with 
planners, local leaders, and elected officials. At 
the same time, residents can learn about the 
planning and decision-making opportunities 
and challenges facing their community from 
the perspective of experts and leaders. 
Through participatory processes, decisions 
can come to better reflect residents’ values 
and lived experiences. Robust community 
engagement also gives the public ownership 
over projects and decisions. When 
community members feel that their voices 
were represented in a decision, they are more 
likely to become  active advocates for and 
participants in decision outcomes. 
1.3.1 Public Meetings 
All general planning meetings held by the 
GPSC, PC, and EC Metro were open to the 
public (in-person or virtually) and were 
noticed in accordance with  public meeting 
requirements. Several GPSC meetings focused 
entirely on developing and reviewing content 
for the elements required by State code 
(transportation and land use). Additionally, 
experts were occasionally invited to present at 
GPSC meetings on a topic determined by the 
group to be of particular importance, interest, 
or concern (e.g. transportation, water). The PC 
and EC Metro also set aside time to review 
and comment on the required elements 
during public meetings prior to adoption. 
All elements were discussed at length by the 
GPSC and reviewed and commented on by 
the PC and EC Metro. 
T able 1.1:  Advantages of citizen participation government decision making, adapted from Irvin & 
Stanbury, 2004.
The Emigration Canyon 
General Planning Process: 
July 2019 - November 2020
30  - General Plan Steering 
Committee Meetings
10 - Emigration Canyon Metro 
Meetings
9 -  Planning Commission Meetings 
1-  Workshop 
1 - Survey 
 Page. 24         
     
Page. 25      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
1.3.2 SWOT and APAE Analysis
In the early stages of its work developing a 
draft of the General Plan, the GPSC conducted 
a Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and 
Threats (SWOT) analysis (Figure 1.5), which 
is used to inform the goals and objectives 
associated with each element of the General 
Plan. The GPSC also conducted an Achieve, 
Preserve, Avoid, and Eliminate (APAE) analysis 
(Figure 1.6), which highlights possible actions 
relevant to every element included in this 
Plan. The SWOT analysis helps a community 
assess its assets and challenges, while the 
APAE analysis forms the basis for the plan 
of action to ensure desired future outcomes. 
The topics included in both the SWOT and 
APAE analyses are not ranked, quantified, or 
exhaustive, but they provide an early-stage 
brainstorm of topics likely to be of interest 
or concern for the residents of Emigration 
Canyon.
Figure 1.5:  Emigration Canyon Metro T ownship 
General Plan Steering Committee SWOT 
(strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and 
threats) analysis. This analysis informs the goals 
and objectives associated with each element (for 
details see Chapter 7 and the Work Programs for 
each chapter).
Figure 1.6:  Emigration Canyon Metro T ownship General Plan Steering Committee 
APAE (achieve, preserve, avoid, and eliminate) analysis. While the SWOT analysis helps 
a community assess its assets and challenges, the APAE analysis forms the basis for the 
plan of action to ensure desired future outcomes (for details see Chapter 7 and the Work 
Programs for each chapter). 
1.3.3 Workshops and Surveys
To encourage wider community input, outreach to the Emigration Canyon 
community was conducted at key stages of General Plan development. 
Residents were invited to participate in a transportation planning workshop 
and/or a transportation and land use survey. Although this outreach focused on 
gathering input on the required general planning elements (i.e. transportation 
and land use), other related topics, such as open space, air quality, and economic 
development were also covered (see Appendix B and C for details). Unfortunately, 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic that arrived in Utah in March 2020, it was 
not possible to safely hold community-wide workshops to discuss Emigration 
Canyon’s General Plan in person after this date..    
Transportation Planning Workshop 
To elicit input on broad transportation planning needs across all of the MSD 
member communities, a Transportation Planning Values and Principles 
Workshop was held on January 30, 2020. At this workshop, 32 members of 
MSD-community Planning Commissions, Councils, General Plan Steering 
Committees, and several involved members of the public, developed a list of 
transportation values broadly applicable across the MSD. Five Emigration 
Canyon representatives contributed to the development of this list, which was 
then used to guide more in-depth discussions and explorations of transportation 
and land use planning options that would  potentially be relevant for the Canyon 
(for details, see Chapter 3 and Appendix B). 
Transportation and Land Use Survey
A Transportation and Land Use Survey was developed and disseminated to 
Emigration Canyon residents to get a better idea of the needs, concerns, and 
values associated with the area. The survey was sent to the EC Metro, PC, 
and GPSC on April 9th, 2020, posted on the MSD website, shared on MSD 
social media with targeted advertising, and posted on the EC Metro website. 
The survey was open through May 14th,  2020. The intention was to gather 
input from Emigration Canyon residents on their transportation and land use 
interests and needs (similar to an open house), rather than to collect a dataset 
 Page. 26         
     
Page. 27      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
that was statistically representative of the 
demographics of the area. This kind of 
non-probability convenience sampling is 
commonly used to collect data on the key 
interests and needs of a group of people 
within a community, but inferences based 
on the sample should be made only about 
the sample itself (Bornstein et al., 2017). The 
data from this study is therefore considered 
as only one of several important components 
that inform the recommendations made 
throughout this General Plan.
The Transportation and Land Use Survey 
utilized an online survey platform, ArcGIS 
Survey 1-2-3, to ask MSD-area residents 
about their transportation and land use 
concerns and values in 14 questions. The 
questions included spatial and mapping 
components to allow for site-specific concerns 
and opportunities to be shared. Ninety-seven 
(97) Emigration Canyon residents completed 
the survey. The top concerns regarding 
development in Emigration Canyon identified 
by survey respondents are shown in Figure 
1.7 (for details, see Chapter 4; Greater Salt 
Lake Municipal Services District, 2020; and 
Appendix C)
1.3.4 Data Analysis
For all elements of the General Plan, the 
variety of data and information collected from 
the community was analyzed, reviewed, and 
referenced with consideration for: publicly 
available reports and academic literature, 
the environment and history of Emigration 
Canyon, and current planning best practices 
and principles. This robust approach to data 
analysis establishes a fact-based foundation 
that can be used to guide future planning and 
decision making in Emigration Canyon. 
Information on the kinds of analyses 
conducted for each element of the General 
Plan are included in the subsections that 
follow. Workshop and survey data was 
analyzed using summary statistical analysis 
and thematic analysis techniques (for details 
see Appendix B and C).  
T echnical Assessment
The Technical Assessment is an integral 
component of the General Plan, as it provides 
detailed, fact-based information about 
the current state of Emigration Canyon, 
and makes basic projections about how its 
future could be shaped. The assessment is 
prepared by planning staff, who collect and 
analyze data and information and present 
the results in a clear format for consideration 
by the public and decision makers involved 
as the General Plan is developed. Data for the 
Technical Assessment is drawn from a variety 
of sources, most notably the US Census 
Bureau’s American Community Survey 5- Y ear 
Estimates and Esri’s Business Analyst. See 
Appendix D for the full Technical Assessment. 
Land Use & Character Areas
ArcGIS was used extensively for analyses 
in the Land Use Chapter, including the land 
use inventory and character area analysis. 
The Wasatch Front Regional Council’s 
(WFRC) shapefile layer: Salt Lake County 
Land Use Parcels 2018 was a key source 
of data. Although the data is two years old, 
it provided the most robust and accurate 
information on key items such as parcel size, 
total market value, land use, and square 
footage of structures available at the time.  
Major discrepancies are identified with 
asterisks or other notes. In the character area 
Lupita McClenning, Director of Plan-
ning & Development, presenting at the 
Transportation Planning Workshop 
held at the Salt Lake County Govern-
ment Center. Photo courtesy of MSD 
Long-Range Planning Team.
analysis, population of each character area is 
estimated by multiplying the dwelling units 
of the character area (from WFRC data) by 
the average household size for Emigration 
Canyon. Esri Community Analyst  was also 
used to provide some of the data found in this 
chapter. 
Transportation & Mobility
The Transportation Chapter relied heavily on 
publicly available data from Wasatch Front 
Regional Council (WFRC), Utah Department 
of Transportation (UDOT), and the Lochner 
Report (2016) (included in Appendix E). Maps 
included in the Transportation Chapter were 
produced using ArcGIS, and sources of map 
data are included in figure subtitles. Data from 
the US Census Bureau’s 5-year estimates were 
used to describe residents’ transportation 
preferences and commuting patterns.
Economic Development 
Opportunities
The Economic Development Chapter includes 
data analysis of both local and regional 
economic conditions. Data regarding 
Emigration Canyon employment, businesses, 
and household spending patterns were derived 
from Esri Business Analyst or Community 
Analyst Reports and US Census Bureau ‘s 
5-year  estimates. An analysis of location 
quotient and shift share was conducted using 
the US Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Quarterly 
Census of Employment and Wages for Salt 
Lake County and is included in Appendix 
F . This analysis was accompanied by an 
overview of area market real estate reports 
that revealed trends in real estate vacancy 
and net absorption for Northern Utah. This 
analysis relied heavily on NAI Excel’s 2019 
Outlook for Northern Utah.
Environment
The Environment Chapter includes data 
drawn from a range of reports and plans. 
Very little data specific to Emigration Canyon 
were available to include in this General Plan. 
Future actions that can be taken to remedy 
this issue are included in the Work Program 
for this element.    
Resilience & Infrastructure
The Resilience and Infrastructure Chapter 
includes data provided by the General Plan 
Steering Committee (social cohesion), and 
Emigration Canyon Improvement District 
(water systems). Maps included in the chapter 
were produced using ArcGIS, and sources 
of map data are included in figure subtitles. 
The hazards and risks analysis included 
in the chapter is primarily drawn from the 
recently completed Hazards Mitigation 
Plan for Emigration Canyon (Salt Lake 
County Emergency Management, 2019). Esri 
Community Analyst was used to conduct 
many of the other analyses included in the 
chapter.  
Figure 1.7:  Emigration Canyon resident responses to the Land Use and Transportation Survey question 
“How important are the following items in terms of development in your area?”
 Page. 28         
     
Page. 29      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
1.3.5 Key Findings
Key themes, including trends, challenges, 
and opportunities,  emerged from the overall 
analysis of community input. For example, 
several issues identified by the GPSC in 
the SWOT and APAE exercises are also 
highlighted by the wider Emigration Canyon 
community members who participated in the 
Transportation and Land Use survey (Figure 
1.7). Clean air, managing noise and light 
pollution, and safe homes and neighborhoods 
each received a 99 percent response rate 
in terms of being considered either “very 
important” or “important” by Emigration 
Canyon residents who responded to the 
survey. Parks and open spaces, sustainability 
and energy efficiency, digital infrastructure 
(e.g. access to broadband), high standards for 
design and aesthetics, and limiting growth and 
development were also considered either “very 
important” or “important” by between 94 and 
98 percent of survey respondents. Although 
water quality and quantity concerns were not 
included as an option for survey respondents, 
this issue was raised repeatedly by the GPSC, 
was included in write-in responses to the 
survey, and was emphasized in the literature 
review. The key themes to emerge as essential 
to consider in planning for the future of the 
Emigration Canyon community are therefore 
as follows:
Local character 
 Preserving qualities such as peace, quiet, 
tranquility and privacy by managing noise 
and light pollution, supporting design 
standards that respect local character, and 
managing growth and development.    
Open spaces and ecosystems
Ensuring preservation of and access to parks, 
trails, open spaces and healthy, functioning 
ecosystems.
Road safety 
 Enhancing road safety for all users.   
Environmental sustainability 
 Managing human impacts on the 
environment, including considerations of 
land, air, water, plants and wildlife, now and 
in the future. 
Hazards planning 
 Increasing management of and planning for 
hazards and climate change.  
Community connectedness and 
engagement  
Enhancing community support networks, 
identity, and involvement, including 
improvements to digital infrastructure and 
support for local businesses.    
These themes are considered throughout 
Emigration Canyon’s General Plan, and 
inform the goals, objectives, and actions that 
are included in the Community Work Program 
at the end of each chapter and in Chapter 7.  
Aerial photo of Emigration Canyon. Photo courtesy of Andrew Wallace. 
 Page. 30         
     
Page. 31      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
1.4.1 Community Vision
The community vision statement provides the 
overarching sense of purpose and direction for 
Emigration Canyon’s General Plan. It outlines 
the desired long-term results of implementing 
the goals, objectives, and actions that are 
associated with each element of the Plan. The 
vision statement below was developed by 
the GPSC with input from the PC and the EC 
Metro.
Emigration Canyon is a progressive, family-
oriented community with many opportunities for 
its residents to enjoy active, healthy, and modern 
lifestyles.
Emigration Canyon is comprised of distinct 
neighborhoods with residents who are dedicated 
to fostering a sense of community and are actively 
involved in public activities.
 
Emigration Canyon is a nationally recognized 
historic landmark and its residents embrace that 
heritage. 
Emigration Canyon residents enjoy and value 
the Canyon’s many excellent, cherished, well-
maintained recreational amenities.
Emigration Canyon residents are committed 
to maintaining and protecting the Canyon’s 
important ecosystems and resources. 
1.4.2 Community Values
The following five values have been developed 
from the Emigration Canyon Vision Statement, 
SWOT/APAE Analysis, Transportation and 
Land Use Survey results, and with input from 
the GPSC, PC and EC Metro. Values are beliefs 
about desirable states or modes of conduct 
that guide behavior and prioritization. 
Each chapter of the General Plan includes 
a work program that links these five values 
to goals, objectives, actions, outcomes and 
performance indicators. This work program 
can be used to evaluate progress towards 
the achievement of community goals, and 
the maintenance of community values. 
The process will help ensure that planning 
decisions are made based on the overarching 
values held by the members of the Emigration 
Canyon community.
Environmental sustainability & 
protection  
Emigration Canyon can protect the 
natural environment of the canyon and 
aim to maintain or enhance environmental 
sustainability and stewardship now and for 
future generations; this includes but is not 
limited to features such as water quality, open 
space, noise management, dark skies, air 
1.4.  The Future We Choose
quality, biodiversity and climate resilience. 
Community commitment  
The Emigration Canyon community should 
celebrate its history and foster a strong sense 
of cohesive community identity through a 
commitment to public service, the enjoyment 
of shared open and community spaces, and 
the pursuit of intergenerational well-being.   
Quality of life  
Emigration Canyon should promote a range of 
well managed educational, cultural, economic 
and recreation opportunities that support the 
achievement of active, healthy, and modern 
lifestyles for all residents.
Health & safety
All members of the Emigration Canyon 
community should have access to a healthy, 
quiet, safe environment where traffic is well 
controlled and natural hazards are well 
managed and they can live, work, and play 
with peace of mind.  
Engaged citizenry   
All citizens of Emigration Canyon should have 
the opportunity to be knowledgeable about 
and encouraged to engage in local decision-
making.  
1.4.3 Using the Vision and 
Values to Guide this Plan
The vision and values of Emigration Canyon 
are reflected throughout this General 
Plan and guide the actions included in the 
Community Work Programs. For example, 
environmental sustainability works its way 
into the Transportation Chapter, with actions 
oriented toward reducing vehicles miles 
traveled and improving air quality. Health and 
safety and quality of life are key components 
of the Land Use Chapter, which focuses on 
preserving and improving access to the open 
spaces which support human health and 
wellbeing. Commitment to community is 
reflected in our focus on creating opportunities 
for the community to gather to celebrate our 
history and identity, this is especially evident 
in the Land Use and Economic Development 
Chapters. Finally, engaged citizenship is a 
consideration throughout the General Plan. 
This is especially reflected in the Community 
Work Program, which creates active 
spaces for residents to get involved in the 
implementation of their General Plan.
1.4.4 Key Recommendations
Future challenges for the Emigration Canyon 
community are often linked to geography. 
The close proximity of Emigration Canyon to 
downtown Salt Lake City is both a strength 
and a challenge when it comes to progressing 
the community vision and upholding the 
community values. While this proximity 
makes it easy for Canyon residents to 
commute to work and other amenities, it also 
means the Canyon is vulnerable to overuse 
by visitors. Other substantial challenges for 
the community include – how to manage 
development pressures, how to manage water 
quality and quantity, and how to control the 
risk of wildfires and other hazards associated 
with the Wildland-Urban Interface. Seven 
key recommendations have been developed 
to address these essential challenges in the 
coming years. These recommendations arose 
as top priorities for implementation  from the 
many goals, objectives, and actions described 
in the Work Programs that accompany each 
chapter of this Plan. 
Recommendation 1: 
Preserve and enhance the ecological features, 
viewsheds, wildlife corridors, and open space 
of Emigration Canyon for future generations.  
Recommendation 2:
 In land management decision-making, 
protect watershed quality and ensure 
sustainable use of all water resources.
Recommendation 3:
 Improve the safety, sustainability, and 
resilience of the built environment, including 
trails and other outdoor recreation 
infrastructure.
Recommendation 4:
 Provide a safe, efficient transportation 
network for all users.
Recommendation 5:
 Enhance community connectedness, 
engagement, and sense of place.
Recommendation 6:
 Prepare for, mitigate and adapt to the effects 
of climate change, natural disaster risk, and 
other hazards.
Recommendation 7: 
Foster responsible, equitable, and 
sustainable economic development in 
keeping with the character and values of 
Emigration Canyon.
 Page. 32         
     
Page. 33      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
CHAPTER 2: 
LAND USE & 
CHARACTER AREAS
View of homes in Emigration Canyon. Photo Courtesy of Katie Cook Oborn.
CHAPTER 2: LAND USE & CHARACTER AREAS 32
2.1 THE IMPORTANCE OF LAND USE 34
2.1.1 state COde 34
2.1.2 values, rOles and resPOnsibilities 34
2.1.3 regiOnal CharaCter and Planning 36
2.1.4 COMMunity inPut 37
2.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 38
2.2.1 land use 38
2.2.2 PubliC/Private OwnershiP 40
2.2.3 ZOning  42
2.3 CHARACTER AREAS 48
2.3.1 Future CharaCter areas 48
Main CanyOn COrridOr CharaCter area 50
MaryField/PiOneer CharaCter area 52
PineCrest/killyOns CharaCter area 54
OPen sPaCe CharaCter area 56
2.4 MOVING FORWARD 58
2.4.1 land use wOrk PrOgraM gOals 58
 Page. 34         
     
Page. 35      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
The Land Use element of the General 
Plan establishes a vision for the future 
pattern of development in a community. It 
weaves each of the plan’s unique sections 
together. Understanding current land use 
challenges and planning for future land use 
opportunities is critical because land use is 
part of the fabric of a community. Land use 
impacts everything: housing, transportation, 
economic opportunities, access to daily 
needs, and overall quality of life. For example, 
thoughtful land use planning ensures that 
households have access to transportation 
and recreational amenities, that schools 
are not located near sources of pollution, 
that commercial centers receive the traffic 
necessary to stay in business, and that 
municipal services and infrastructure can be 
efficiently provided. The pattern of land use in 
a community is thus a major determinant of 
area character and quality of life. Throughout 
this chapter, the connections between 
Emigration Canyon’s land use and the topics 
outlined above are explored through data 
analysis, public feedback, and on-the-ground 
experiences. 
2.1.1 State Code
The State of Utah acknowledges the 
importance of land use in community 
development and wellbeing. To comply 
with state law, Utah municipalities must 
incorporate a land use element into the 
General Plan. According to Utah Code § 10-
9a-403(3), the General Plan must include, “a 
land use element that:
(A) designates the long-term goals and 
the proposed extent, general distribution, 
and location of land for housing for residents 
of various income levels, business, industry, 
agriculture, recreation, education, public 
buildings and grounds, open space, and other 
categories of public and private uses of land 
as appropriate; and
(B) may include a statement of the 
projections for and standards of population 
density and building intensity recommended 
for the various land use categories covered by 
the plan.”
2.1.2 Values, Roles and 
Responsibilities
Aligning Emigration Canyon’s land 
use goals with regional and statewide 
values and responsibilities increases 
the likelihood of acquiring funding and 
successfully implementing desirable projects. 
Acknowledging the roles and responsibilities of 
the organizations and institutions which could 
have some influence on decisions regarding 
land use and implementation in Emigration 
Canyon, will help to clarify management 
expectations and coordinate land use goals 
and opportunities. The following is a brief 
overview of organizations and institutions 
which are most likely to present opportunities 
for coordination regarding land use and land 
use implementation strategies.
The State of Utah
The State of Utah recognizes the close 
connection between quality of life and land 
use issues, including housing costs, traffic 
congestion, air quality, and leisure time. 
With these topics in mind, the Utah Life 
Elevated 2020 Initiative (Governor’s Office of 
Management and Budget, 2020) identifies the 
following goals as part of a land use strategy 
designed to further enhance quality of life and 
future prosperity for all Utahans:
1. Ensure that Utahans have access to 
ample opportunities for jobs, education, 
recreation, and affordable, market-driven 
housing choices within close proximity.
2. Leverage existing and future 
infrastructure investments to reduce 
travel times and road congestion, 
optimize the use of Utah’s limited water 
and improve air quality.
Wasatch Front Regional Council 
As the Metropolitan Planning Organization 
responsible for a broad region including 
Emigration Canyon, the Wasatch Front 
Regional Council (WFRC) promotes an 
interconnected, interdisciplinary approach 
to planning that addresses the interactions 
among key planning elements such as 
transportation and land use. In collaboration 
with stakeholders from around the region, 
WFRC has developed a suite of goals (Figure 
2.1 THE IMPORTANCE OF LAND USE
3.2), which are applicable throughout the 
region and which guide many research and 
funding decisions made by WFRC. 
United States Forest Service
Much of Emigration Canyon is included 
within the Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National 
Forest (Figure 2.2) as part of the United States 
Forest Service (USFS) Salt Lake Ranger 
District. The land managed by the District 
supplies more than 60% of the drinking 
water for Salt Lake City residents (US Forest 
Service, n.d.). The Salt Lake City Watershed 
includes Emigration Canyon “from Burr Fork 
and Killyon Canyon above a point at the 
intersection of State Highways 65 and 172.” 
This area is  today known as the intersection 
of Emigration Canyon Road and Pinecrest 
Canyon Road. Various rules and regulations  
have been put in place to protect this valuable 
water resource and ensure that the land 
remains in its natural state.
Utah Open Lands Conservation 
Association
Due to its proximity to Salt Lake City, 
unprotected areas throughout Emigration 
Canyon have been and continue to be of 
interest to property developers. The Utah 
Open Lands Conservation Association is a 
501(c)(3) nonprofit land trust conservation 
association in the United States that is 
chartered to preserve and protect open 
space in order to maintain Utah’s natural 
heritage and quality of life for present and 
future generations. Since 2001, Utah Open 
Lands has raised funds and established 
partnerships to preserve numerous parcels 
Figure 2.1: Lands held under easements by Utah Open Lands Conservation Association.
   Utah Open Lands Conservation Association

 Page. 36         
     
Page. 37      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
of land in Emigration Canyon, today totaling 
over 1,000 acres and approximately 9% of the 
land (Figure 2.1; Figure 2.2).   
Salt Lake City
Lands in Emigration Canyon owned by 
the Salt Lake City Department of Public 
Utilities (SLCDPU) are maintained primarily 
for watershed and open space purposes.  
SLCDPU holds and maintains surface and 
groundwater rights in the Emigration Creek 
watershed for current and future water supply 
purposes. Title 17 Chapter 17.04 of the 
Salt Lake City Code defines a portion of the 
watershed as protected. This area is defined 
in the code as “ All of the Emigration Canyon 
watershed area that contributes water to 
Emigration Creek from Burr Fork and Killyon 
Canyon above a point at the intersection 
of state Highways 65 and 172.” SLCDPU is 
currently updating a long-range watershed 
management plan for the area, which should 
be completed sometime in 2021.  
Salt Lake County
Lands in Emigration Canyon owned by 
Salt Lake County are similarly maintained 
primarily for watershed and open space 
purposes. As part of this effort, Upper 
Emigration Creek (from Hogle Zoo to the 
headwaters) is designated as a Category 1 
High Quality Waters in accordance with UAC 
R371-2, Standards of Quality for Waters of 
the State, Section R317-2-3, Antidegradation 
Policy (Salt Lake County Watershed Planning 
& Restoration, 2015). Designated Category 1 
waters must be maintained at existing high 
quality. New point-source discharges are 
prohibited in segments of Category 1 waters 
and diffuse sources must be controlled to the 
extent feasible through implementation of 
best management practices or regulatory 
programs. This designation helps to ensure 
that much of the publicly-owned and publicly-
managed land in Emigration Canyon remains 
in its natural state. 
Salt Lake County Public Health Department 
is also responsible for waste- and water-
related permits in Emigration Canyon. County 
rules and regulations associated with water 
use or wastewater disposal may limit some 
land uses in the Canyon. For more details see 
https://slco.org/health/permits/  
Emigration Canyon Improvement 
District
The Emigration Canyon Improvement District 
(EID) is a local special service district created 
under Utah Law.  As such it is an independent 
governmental entity governed by a Board 
of Trustees. The EID is the governing body 
for water and wastewater for portions of 
Emigration Canyon and therefore establishes 
rules and regulations that govern this service 
including setting rates and fees. The EID also 
has the power to establish a property tax to 
help fund the services it provides. In recent 
years EID has installed fire hydrants in the 
canyon, which provide fire protection to most, 
but not all of Emigration Canyon residents. 
EID also supports water quality education and 
assists with septic system installation in some 
cases. The EID’s role in planning and zoning is 
limited. The EID does not have any power to 
adopt land use control ordinances or approve 
or deny any land use applications, but EID 
input on the adoption and implementation of 
general plans is needed to assist with long term 
planning regarding water and wastewater 
provision in the Canyon. The Municipality’s 
plans will affect future demands on the EID 
for services and EID’s capacity will affect the 
Municipality’s ability to allow future growth.  
2.1.3 Regional Character and 
Planning
Emigration Canyon is a community of 
approximately 1,466 residents whose 
homes are tucked into the folds of the 
Wasatch Mountains that rise above the 
growing metropolis of Salt Lake City and 
the surrounding Salt Lake Valley. Land uses 
are relatively constrained by a combination 
of mountainous geography, environmental 
characteristics, limited water resources, and 
local values. However, such close proximity 
to the thriving Wasatch Front region means 
that many external drivers must factor into 
Municipality planning and decision making. 
Emigration Canyon is not included in the 
Wasatch Canyons General Plan, a regional 
planning document that considers many of 
the surrounding canyons, there are many 
parallels in terms of planning interests and 
needs (see Appendix G for details). Like 
Emigration Canyon, the canyons and foothills 
included in the Wasatch Canyons General Plan 
are under increasing pressure from visitation, 
development, traffic, and other factors 
such as climate change (Salt Lake County 
Regional Development, 2020). Because of 
these concerns, this 2022 Emigration Canyon 
General Plan seeks to manage the influence 
of these external drivers and to preserve the 
rural character of Emigration Canyon for 
future generations to enjoy.  
2.1.4 Community Input
This General Plan was developed using 
a participatory approach that engaged 
members of the Emigration Canyon 
community in planning for the future of 
the Municipality. Details on this process 
are provided in section 1.4. As part of the 
community input process, a Strengths, 
Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats 
(SWOT) analysis (Figure 1.5) and an Achieve, 
Preserve, Avoid, and Eliminate (APAE) 
analysis (Figure 1.6) was conducted by the 
GPSC. These analyses highlighted many 
subjects relevant to this Land Use element. A 
summary of key results are described in the 
two subsections that follow. Key results from 
the Transportation and Land Use Survey 
relevant for land use planning are described 
in the third subsection
SWOT Analysis (Land Use)
Land use strengths associated with 
Emigration Canyon as identified in Figure 
1.5 include the rural mountain feel, open 
space, and outdoor recreation activities like 
hiking and biking enjoyed by area residents 
and visitors. Land use weaknesses included 
high traffic volumes, issues with internet and 
cellular access and  a lack of community 
gathering spaces. Several land use 
opportunities were identified; these generally 
related to promoting, protecting, or enjoying 
open spaces and nature. Threats from over 
development, traffic, water contamination 
and exceeding groundwater capacity  were 
the major land use concerns raised.
APAE Analysis (Land Use)
Land use-related items identified in the APAE 
analysis (Figure 1.6) largely reflected the 
environmental sustainability and protection, 
community commitment, and quality of life 
values associated with Emigration Canyon. 
In terms of things to be achieved, this included 
a connected trails system and associated 
parking, increased wildlife awareness and 
preservation, sustainable resource use and 
supporting ordinances, and zoning that 
protects the dark skies and current character 
of the Canyon. Achieving a sense of community 
through better land use planning was also 
considered very important for Emigration 
Canyon. Characteristics that were identified 
as needing to be preserved included water 
and other natural resources, dark skies and 
open spaces (including the land easement 
programs that facilitate land conservation), 
and the rural and historic character of the 
area. Items to be avoided included parking 
issues (e.g. lack of safe parking), loss of 
resources, and over development of the 
Canyon, including short term rentals, and 
other unintended changes that could result 
from a lack of careful planning. Things that 
were identified that need to be eliminated 
included a range of contaminants such as 
air, water, and light pollution, uncontrolled 
growth, and illegal camping.
Transportation and Land Use Survey
The top land use development-related 
concerns for Emigration Canyon identified by 
the General Plan Steering Committee in the 
SWOT and APAE exercises are also largely 
reflected by the wider Emigration Canyon 
community members who participated 
in the transportation and land use survey 
(Figure 1.7). Issues such as managing noise 
and light pollution and  safe homes and 
neighborhoods each received a 99 percent 
response rate in terms of being considered 
either “very important” or “important” by 
Emigration Canyon residents who responded 
to the survey. Parks and open spaces was 
also considered either “very important” 
or “important” by 98 percent of survey 
respondents from Emigration Canyon.  High 
standards for design and aesthetics was 
supported by 95 percent, while limiting 
growth and development was supported by 
94 percent of survey respondents as either 
“very important” or “important”.   
This analysis informs the goals, objectives, 
and actions that follow in the Community 
Work Program at the end of the chapter and 
in Chapter 7. 
 Page. 38         
     
Page. 39      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
2.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS
Land use planning is a decision-making 
process that specifies the appropriate or 
designated types of uses of a piece or pieces 
of land. Land use planning generally aims 
to balance private property rights with the 
desired community character and other 
broad considerations. This process can 
be accomplished, at least in part, through 
the application of zoning regulations that 
specifically define and regulate the allowable 
uses, designs, and densities in specific areas. 
It is generally harder to change land use 
designations than zoning, as they operate 
at different scales (i.e. land use is more likely 
to apply to an area composed of multiple 
parcels, while zoning can be parcel by parcel). 
2.2.1 Land Use
Emigration Canyon includes approximately 
12,000 acres in total land area. Land in 
Emigration Canyon (Figure 2.3) is primarily 
devoted to open space/natural resources, with 
8,163.84 total acres and approximately 68 
percent of the total land area in the Canyon 
associated with this use. Not surprisingly, 
Double rainbow, Emigration Canyon. Photo Courtesy of Catherine Harris.
Figure 2.3: Current Land Use in Emigration Canyon.
   Current Land Use 

 Page. 40         
     
Page. 41      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
this use also aligns closely with the areas 
in the Canyon that are publicly owned 
and managed (Figure 2.2). Vacant lots are 
currently listed as the second most common 
land use in the Canyon with 1,269.21 total 
acres, but a substantial amount of this area 
may be subject to conservation easements 
(for example with Utah Open Lands)  and 
is therefore not available for development. 
Additional development constraints on many 
of these parcels include steep grades, public 
health permitting issues related to water and 
wastewater, lack of access, or other zoning 
conditions (e.g. see section on FCOZ). More 
details on vacant lots are included in the 
Character Areas section of this chapter, but all 
information provided in this General Plan is 
for reference only; more detailed assessments 
of individual parcels is required in order to 
make informed decisions about appropriate 
land use at that scale. Residential uses are the 
next most common in Emigration Canyon, 
with 866.91 total acres or just under 8 percent 
of the area in the Municipality associated 
with single-family residential uses, and 0.05 
percent of the Municipality used for multi-
family residential land uses. There are 642 
acres designated for agricultural land use 
in Emigration Canyon but none of this land 
is currently used for intensive agricultural 
purposes.
2.2.2  Public/Private Ownership
In 2012, when the last General Plan for 
Emigration Canyon was completed, 
approximately 60 percent of Emigration 
Canyon was publicly owned or managed. 
This percentage has increased significantly 
(by at least 11 percent) in the ensuing eight 
years; in 2020, 71.6 percent or over 8,000 
acres of Emigration Canyon is publicly owned 
or managed land (Figure 2.2). Public lands 
preservation has increased in recognition of 
the vital role that the Canyon plays in providing 
both water and recreation opportunities to 
the rapidly expanding population of Salt Lake 
City and Salt Lake County. The concerted 
preservation efforts of Utah Open Lands, Salt 
Lake City, Salt Lake County, and dedicated 
members of the community have contributed 
substantially to the cause in recent years.
The amount of public lands devoted to 
open space in Emigration Canyon has 
increased through purchases, donations 
and designations over the years, but 
the recreational use of the area has also 
presumably increased along with regional 
population growth (Harris, 2019). This has 
led to concerns among residents regarding 
parking, traffic, biodiversity protection, 
noise, and sanitation. These concerns 
are addressed in some detail in the Trails 
Plan 2007 (Salt Lake County Parks and 
Recreation, 2007; Appendix H; Emigration 
Canyon Community Council, 2019) as well 
as in the goals and objectives included in the 
Land Use Work Program. Currently, trails 
in Emigration Canyon are largely informal 
and unmaintained and range across both 
public and private lands. The Municipality 
intends to develop multi-use designated trails, 
accommodating a mix of hiking and biking 
activities where appropriate, largely on public 
lands (see Appendix I for details). Additional 
details on these plans are included in the 
Character Areas section below.
Figure 2.2: Public/Private Land Ownership in Emigration Canyon.
Public Private Land Ownership

 Page. 42         
     
Page. 43      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
2.2.3  Zoning 
Zoning codes are intended to implement land 
use policies and goals. Zoning codes are a set 
of rules that regulate what can and cannot be 
done on a particular piece of property. This 
is accomplished through standards such as 
minimum lot sizes, height requirements, lot 
coverage limits, and setback requirements 
that are established and enforced by the 
local land use authority. Zoning codes and 
associated maps (e.g. Figure 2.4) define and 
identify zone classifications (e.g. Table 2.1); 
zone classifications define allowable uses and 
the maps indicate zone boundaries. Figure 2.4 
summarizes the current zoning designations 
in Emigration Canyon, while Figures 2.6-
2.8 provide more detail on particular zoning 
categories or areas. 
Nearly all the land in Emigration Canyon is 
currently zoned for Forestry and Recreation 
(FR) of various lot sizes. With limited 
commercial amenities, residents must travel 
outside of the Canyon for most of their daily 
needs, including food, employment, and 
education. Over 10,000 acres (88.5 percent) 
of the Municipality’s land is zoned FR-20. This 
zone allows forestry, recreational, and single-
family residential development but only if 
such development will not damage natural 
and scenic resources in the Canyon. Minimum 
lot size is 20 acres in the FR-20
T able 2.1: Zone Classification Source: Emigration Canyon Code, 2020. Figure 2.4: Current zoning for Emigration Canyon. See Figures 2.10 and 2.11 for details on commercial zoning.
Zoning
* ZC indicates recent zoning change made
Emigration Canyon Zoning 
Zone Acres by 
Zone
% of Total 
Acres Zone Description 
C-2 
*Includes recent 
zoning changes 
9.8 0.1% Allows for the development of community commercial 
uses when zoning criteria are met. 
R-M
*Includes recent 
zoning changes
.09 0.0%
Allows for high-density residential development, but 
also permits agriculture. Minimum lot area is 5,000 sq 
ft for a single-family residential unit, plus 750 sq ft per 
additional unit. Short term rentals are a conditional use. 
FR-0.5 257.8 2.2%
Permits forestry, recreational, and single family 
residential development where such development will 
not damage natural and scenic resources. (Lot size 0.5 
acre)
FR-1 598.2 5.2%
Permits forestry, recreational, and single family 
residential development where such development will 
not damage natural and scenic resources. (Lot size 1 
acre)
FR-2.5 19.7 0.2%
Permits forestry, recreational, and single family 
residential development where such development will 
not damage natural and scenic resources. (Lot size 2.5 
acre)
FR-5 96.9 0.8%
Permits forestry, recreational, and single family 
residential development where such development will 
not damage natural and scenic resources. (Lot size 5 
acre)
FR-10
*Includes recent 
zoning changes 
(shown as FR-10/
ZC on zoning map)
341.8 0.8%
Permits forestry, recreational, and single family 
residential development where such development will 
not damage natural and scenic resources. (Lot size 10 
acre)
FR-20 10,200.7 3.0%
Permits forestry, recreational, and single family residen-
tial development where such development will not dam-
age natural and scenic resources. (Lot size 20 acre)
 Page. 44         
     
Page. 45      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zone 
(FCOZ)
In 1998, an overlay zone was applied to 
unincorporated areas of Salt Lake County in 
the Wasatch Canyons, including Emigration 
Canyon. The overlay zone and its associated 
zoning regulations are known as the Foothills 
and Canyons Overlay Zone or FCOZ. The 
general purpose of FCOZ is to preserve the 
natural character of the Wasatch Canyons 
by establishing standards for foothill and 
canyon development. FCOZ standards allow 
proposed development to be evaluated on 
a site-by-site basis, while ensuring that 
approved development will be compatible 
with the natural landscape. FCOZ sets 
limits on land disturbance and prohibits 
development on steeper slopes. FCOZ also 
establishes standards for required setbacks 
from stream channels, protected ridgelines 
(see Figure 2.5) and wetland areas.
Figure 2.5: Ridgeline protection areas in Emigration Canyon. 
Canyon Overlay Zone Potential Conflict Areas
 Commercial Zones
Emigration Canyon has only a small amount 
of existing commercial development (Figure 
2.6). In 2020, Esri Community Analyst 
indicated that there were approximately 15 
businesses based in Emigration Canyon, 
while the MSD has closer to 25 businesses 
on record in the area. The most well-known 
businesses in the Canyon are Ruth’s Diner and 
Emigration Brewing Company. Emigration 
Canyon has only limited brick-and-mortar 
commercial availability (Figures 2.7 and 2.8) 
and expansion is largely limited by lack of 
commercial property available in the Canyon, 
lack of available parking, environmental 
constraints, and limited appetite for additional 
commercial zoning within the community. 
Commercial & Residential Zones | 
Former Sun and Moon Cafe Area
Commercial & Residential Zones | 
Ruth’s Diner & Emigration Brewing 
Company Area
Figure 2.6: Residential and Commercially Developed Areas. See Figures 2.7 and 2.8 for details on commercial zoning.

 Page. 46         
     
Page. 47      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Figure 2.7: Commercial Zones near Ruth’s Diner. Please note that the largest commercially zoned parcel  shown is under a conservation easement and therefore 
is not available for commercial development. Updates to zoning ordinances that will reflect this change are included in the Community Work Program at the 
end of this chapter and also in Chapter 7 .  
Ruth’s Diner in Emigration Canyon. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
Commercial & Residential Zones | Ruth’s Diner Area
Figure 2.8: Commercial Zones near former Sun & Moon Cafe.
Emigration Canyon Brewery.  Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander. Emigration Canyon Former Sun and Moon Cafe.  Photo Courtesy of John E.
Commercial & Residential Zones | Former Sun and Moon Cafe Area

 Page. 48
Page. 49      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
2.3 CHARACTER AREAS
“Flavor is one thing Emigration Canyon does not lack. From its lasting historic significance to Utah and the West to 
its offbeat aura today, there is no place like it along the Wasatch Front. ”  
- Dennis R
omboy, Deseret News
2.3.1 Future Character Areas
To take a holistic approach to planning for 
the future of Emigration Canyon’s land use, 
areas with different contexts that merit more 
sensitive design responses were grouped 
together into “character areas”. The character 
areas defined in this section are intended to 
acknowledge these varying settings. Building, 
landscape, and streetscape features, as well 
as the identities and interests of those who 
live and work in these areas, combine to form 
character areas. 
Existing features, including both 
characteristics that are valued and concerns 
that need to be addressed, are considered in 
the development of a future vision for each 
area in which new characteristics may also 
be introduced. The Future Land Use and 
Character Areas Map (Figure 2.9), along with 
the character area narratives that follow, 
lay out a vision, specific goals, appropriate 
land uses, and implementation strategies 
for Emigration Canyon’s unique areas and 
neighborhoods.
This combined information should be 
considered along with the current Land Use 
Map (Figure 2.3), the Zoning (Figure 2.4), 
and specific policies and ordinances when 
decision-makers consider land development 
questions or requests. The maps provided in 
this chapter, and throughout the General Plan, 
are for reference purposes only. Individual 
parcels will require detailed study before any 
building activity is allowed. 
In addition to the maps provided throughout 
this section, the supporting text provides 
a written description of the patterns of 
development that are acceptable in each 
area. The supporting narrative provides policy 
direction for regulating development with 
the goal of maintaining consistent character 
within each area in alignment with the 
community’s overarching vision and values. 
Where appropriate, statements for policies 
and goals are also established. There are 
four character areas in total for Emigration 
Canyon: Main Canyon Corridor, Maryfield/
Pioneer , Pinecrest/Killyons, and Open Space. 
Figure 2.9: Future Land Use and Character Areas Map for Emigration Canyon.
Character Areas (All)
Main Canyon Corridor 
Maryfield/Pioneer  
Pinecrest/Killyons 
Open Space
 Page. 50
Page. 51      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Main Canyon Corridor Character Area
Description: 
The Main Canyon Corridor Character 
Area is steeped in history and maintains a 
strong sense of community up and down the 
Canyon. The road itself provides ready access 
between Salt Lake City, Emigration Canyon, 
and points further east, making several of 
the area’s most iconic sites, including Ruth’s 
Diner, Camp Kostopulos, and two informal 
preserves (Perkins Flat Preserve and Owl’s 
Meadow Preserve), accessible to visitors. As 
throughout the rest of Emigration Canyon, 
privately-owned land has been developed 
into a variety of residential lot sizes that are 
primarily single-family oriented. Sites near the 
road were largely developed some time ago, 
but some vacant lots remain due to building 
constraints such as steep hillsides. 
Descriptions of neighborhoods incorporated 
into the Main Canyon Corridor Character 
Area (see Appendix J, Figure A) include Acorn 
Hills, Badger Hollow, Maple Grove, Quarter 
Mile Road, Skycrest, Sunnydale, and Trails 
End. 
Area vision: 
The cultural heritage and natural resources 
of the Canyon are well protected for future 
generations to enjoy, while a holistic and 
resilient community thrives. In particular, 
the small commercial area located near the 
western entrance to Emigration Canyon is 
preserved, and some additional spaces are 
made available for sustainable economic 
development compatible with the existing 
character of the Canyon. Visitation to 
Emigration Canyon is well-managed to 
control noise and nuisance, and to protect the 
natural environment of the area.
Future zoning considerations: C-2, FR-0.5, 
FR-1, FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, FR-20, R-M, NC 
Current Character Area Snapshot: 
• Area Acres: 905.513
• D
welling units: 288
• Estimated population: # dwelling units
(288) x average household size (2.6) =
749
• Density: 288 dwelling units/905.513
acres =.318 du/acre
T able 2.2 (above): Main Canyon Corridor Character Area 
Zoning Summary.
T able 2.3 (right): Main Canyon Corridor Character Area Land Use Summary data from WFRC’s 
Land Use Inventory (Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2018c).
Main Canyon Corridor Character 
Area Vision Implementation 
Strategies:
Allow small home-based businesses (e.g. 
limited to those persons living in the residence), 
as long as parking is available and deemed 
adequate for the type of business desired.
Preserve existing zoning standards that 
protect the unique canyon ecosystem and 
scenery, including those that mandate large-
lot zoning where such zoning is appropriate 
for the mountain setting.
Support land use and development patterns 
that incorporate nature, scale and use into 
the built environment and increase public 
awareness and responsibility toward the 
natural environment.
Establish a working group, at EC Metro’s 
discretion, of local artists, educators, and 
residents to develop historic markers, 
educational signage, and wayfinding signage.
Consider environmental impact, and impact 
on roads and traffic when evaluating proposed 
changes in commercial or residential zoning.
Figure 2.10: Vacant lot and slope constraints in the 
Main Canyon Corridor Character Area. According 
to WFRC’s Land Use Inventory (Wasatch Front 
Regional Council, 2018c), there are 86 vacant lots 
totaling 294.871 Acres in the Main Canyon Corridor 
Character Area. The buildability of many of these 
lots is limited by a range of constraints, including 
large proportions of the land that have a greater 
than 35% slope, as shown in this figure. 
Character Areas (Main Canyon Corridor)
Main Canyon Corridor
Vacant Lots
35% Slope or greater 
Main Canyon Corridor Character Area Main Canyon Corridor Character Area
 Page. 52
Page. 53      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area
Description: 
The most recent developments in Emigration 
Canyon, put in place over the last few decades, 
include a variety of residential lot sizes that 
are primarily single-family oriented. These 
developments aim to provide a safe, private 
and serene sanctuary for their residents. 
They include roads built to current industry 
standards and surrounding open space that 
is often privately held or accessed. 
Descriptions of neighborhoods incorporated 
into the Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area 
(see Appendix J, Figure A) include Emigration 
Place and Emigration Oaks. 
Area vision: 
The peaceful and rural atmosphere of the area 
is maintained while a high standard of service 
for residents is also upheld. While some trails, 
parking, and vacant lots may be developed in 
the area, maintaining the privacy of residents 
and the excellent condition of the surrounding 
open space generally takes precedence. 
Future zoning considerations: FR-0.5, FR-1, 
FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, FR-20
Current Character Area Snapshot: 
• Area Acres: 1340.926
• D
welling units: 255
• Estimated population: # dwelling units
(255) x average household size (2.6) =
663
• Density: 255 dwelling units/1340.926
acres =.190 du/acre
T able 2.5: Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area Zoning Summary.
T able 2.4: Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area Land Use Summary data from WFRC’s Land Use 
Inventory (Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2018c).
Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area 
Vision Implementation Strategies:
Establish a working group, at EC Metro’s 
discretion, to develop guidelines and 
standards for new developments that will 
incorporate principles of open-space design, 
such as cluster subdivisions and planned-
unit developments,  where feasible and 
appropriate. 
In adopting ordinances, consider working 
group recommendations regarding 
enhanced standards and guidelines for new 
developments. 
Conduct a study of viable local park/open 
space access interests, needs, and future 
requirements for existing communities and 
new subdivisions.
Figure 2.11: Vacant lots and slope constraints in 
the Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area. According 
to WFRC’s Land Use Inventory (Wasatch Front 
Regional Council, 2018c), there are 78 vacant lots 
totaling 488.832 Acres in the Maryfield/Pioneer 
Character Area. The buildability of some of these 
lots is limited by a range of constraints, including 
large proportions of the land that have a greater 
than 35% slope, as shown in this figure.  
Character Area (Maryfield/Pioneer )
Maryfield/Pioneer Vacant 
Lots
35% Slope or greater 
Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area - Land Use Summary Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area - Zoning Summary
 Page. 54
Page. 55      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Pinecrest/Killyons Character Area
Description: 
Pinecrest/Killyons was the first section of 
Emigration Canyon to be developed, yet 
it remains the most remote corner of the 
Canyon. Residents generally take pride in 
the pioneering spirit of the area, adhere to 
high environmental standards, and seek the 
secluded, rugged landscape of the Canyon’s 
most mountainous reaches. 
Some important land use features of note 
in this character area, include the fact that 
much of the area is covered by a 35 percent 
slope or greater, making additional building 
difficult under current FCOZ requirements. 
Much of Pinecrest/Killyons also falls within 
the protected watershed of SLCDPU, which 
adds another layer of regulation to proposed 
development in the area. Another land use 
planning feature of note is that Pinecrest 
contains many small lots that were legally 
platted at one time but are non-conforming 
under current zoning conditions.   Some roads 
preceded current County standards. 
Killyons Canyon also includes a valuable 
open space preserve (269 acres). This pristine 
property contains rolling meadows, thick 
forests, and great vistas. It has been a popular 
outdoor recreation destination for both 
locals and visitors to the Canyon, and future 
infrastructure to help manage recreational 
use is envisioned for the area .
Descriptions of neighborhoods incorporated 
into the Pinecrest/Killyons Character Area 
(see Appendix J, Figure A ) include Killyons, 
Burr (Burnt) Fork, Pinecrest 
Area vision: 
Trails and associated infrastructure to 
facilitate some recreational access to this 
remote and rugged area are developed and  
maintained while protecting wildlife habitat/
corridors, and maintaining the privacy of the 
area’s residents.  
Future zoning considerations: FR-0.5, FR-1, 
FR-20 
T able 2.7: Pinecrest/Killyons Character Zoning Summary. 
T able 2.6: Pinecrest/Killyons Character Area Land Use Summary data from WFRC’s Land 
Use Inventory (Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2018c). 
Current Character Area Snapshot: 
• Area Acres: 321.08
• D
welling units: 100
• Estimated population: # dwelling units
(100) x average household size (2.6) =
260
• Density: 100 dwelling units/321.08
acres = .311 du/acre 
Pinecrest/Killyons Character Area 
Vision Implementation Strategies
Support land use and development patterns 
that incorporate nature, scale, and use into 
the built environment and increase public 
awareness and responsibility toward the 
natural environment.
Establish a working group, at EC Metro’s 
discretion to develop appropriate design 
guidelines to address relevant safety, 
sustainability, and resilience issues as 
needed (e.g. architectural compatibility 
with surrounding environment, utilization 
of local and/or sustainable materials and 
technologies in new construction, natural 
resource and roadway constraints).
Figure 2.12: Vacant lots and slope constraints in 
the Pinecrest/Killyons Character Area. According 
to WFRC’s Land Use Inventory (Wasatch Front 
Regional Council, 2018c), there are 51 vacant lots 
totaling 22.909 Acres in the Pinecrest/Killyons 
Character Area. The buildability of many of these 
lots is extremely limited by a range of constraints, 
including large proportions of the land that have 
a greater than 35% slope, as shown in this figure.  
Character Area (Pinecrest/Killyons)
Pinecrest/Killyons
Vacant Lots
35% Slope or greater 

 Page. 56
Page. 57      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Open Space Character Area
Description: 
The open spaces, parks, preserves, and trails 
of Emigration Canyon are considered by 
many to be among the area’s greatest assets, 
not only because of the beautiful, often steeply 
graded and forested landscape, but also 
because they are home to a diverse range of 
plants and wildlife. Some of these areas are 
not accessible by vehicle. 
Area vision: 
Trails and associated infrastructure to 
facilitate enhanced  recreational access to 
this remote and rugged area are developed, 
particularly on publicly owned lands. Where 
appropriate, lands are maintained for open 
space, viewshed and wildlife habitat, for the 
enjoyment of current and future generations. 
Future zoning considerations: FR-0.5, FR-1, 
FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-20
Current Character Area Snapshot:
• Area Acres: 8,938.625
•
Acreage per person: 8,938.625 acres/
1,466 people= 6.096 acres/pp
• Dwelling units: 61
• Estimated population: # dwelling units
(61) x average household size (2.6) = 159
• Density: 61 dwelling units/8938.625
acres =.007 du/acre
Open Space Character Area Vision 
Implementation Strategies
Conduct a recreational use study of 
Emigration Canyon. Include impact of 
visitation and recreational use by visitors who 
are not residents. 
Prepare an open space area plan for 
Emigration Canyon, including updating 
existing conservation easements and other 
ownership and conditions data, coordinating 
with and possibly connecting to existing 
regional plans, and identifying areas for 
preservation that have public benefit for 
preservation of open space, scenic views, 
trails, and critical wildlife habitat.
T able 2.9: Open Space Character Area Zoning.
T able 2.8: Open Space Character Area Land Use Summary data from WFRC’s Land Use 
Inventory (Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2018c). 
Open Space Character Area
 Page. 58
Page. 59      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
2.4 MOVING FORWARD
Home in Emigration Canyon. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
“The time to repair the roof is when the sun is shining. ” 
– John F . Kennedy
2.4.1 Land Use Work Program 
Goals
The following Land Use Work Program 
Goals were developed with guidance from 
the GPSC, based on community input, and 
with consideration for the opportunities, 
challenges, drivers, and values outlined in this 
and previous chapters. The work program 
can be used to guide the implementation 
of the General Plan and make progress on 
Emigration Canyon’s land use goals. The 
work program outlines goals, objectives, and 
actions, with the responsible parties, timeline 
for implementation, approximate cost, metrics 
for success, and relevant resources also 
delineated. However, the Emigration Canyon 
Metro Township Council is the governing 
body of the Municipality and will determine 
how best to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
actions included in the work plan, including 
how best to implement recommendations 
such as the formation of working groups. 
Details such as possible leads, timelines, costs, 
metrics, and resources are included to support 
implementation but are not definitive. 
Goal 2.1: Preserve the culture, identity, 
and character of Emigration Canyon’s 
built environment. 
• Obj ective 2.1.1: Enhance protection of the
unique canyon ecosystem and scenery.
• Obj
ective 2.1.2: Improve the safety,
sustainability, and resilience of the built
environment.
Goal 2.2: Enhance community 
connectedness and sense of place.
• Obj ective 2.2.1: Increase connectedness
and sense of place within and between
character areas.
• Obj
ective 2.2.2: Increase spaces for local
community gatherings and recreation.
Goal 2.3: Preserve and enhance 
ecological features, viewsheds, wildlife 
corridors, and open space.
• Obj ective 2.3.1: Improve management of
existing open space amenities.
• Obj
ective 2.3.2: Preserve and enhance
views of the night sky and protections for
nocturnal wildlife.
Goal 2.4: Preserve and enhance 
existing commercial activities.
• Obj ective 2.4.1: Increase support for
commercial activities that enhance the
quality of life of canyon residents and
adhere to canyon character and values.
Home in Emigration Canyon. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
 Page. 60
Page. 61      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
CHAPTER 3: 
TRANSPORTATION 
& MOBILITY
Entrance to Emigration Canyon. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
“With citizen participation, formulated policies might be more realistically grounded in citizen preferences, 
the public might become more sympathetic evaluators of the tough decisions that government 
administrators have to make, and the improved support from the public might create a less divisive, 
combative populace to govern and regulate” 
   (Irvin & Stansbury, 2004, pg. 55).
CHAPTER 3
: TRANSPORTATION & MOBILITY
 60
3.1 IMPORTANCE OF TRANSPORTATION 62
3.1.1 state COde 62
3.1.2 relatiOnshiPs, rOles & resPOnsibilities 62
3.1.3 COMMunity inPut 64
3.2 Transportation Planning Values 66
3.3 EXIS
TING CONDITIONS
 68
3.3.1 street netwOrk  68
3.3.2 street ClassiFiCatiOn  70
3.3.3 traFFiC vOluMe and saFety 71
3.3.4 COMMuting Patterns 72
3.3.5 aCtive transPOrtatiOn 72
3.3.6 trails 73
3.3.7 aCCessibility 73
3.4 LOOKING AHEAD 74
3.4.1 Future PrOjeCtiOns  74
3.4.2 next stePs: rOadway iMPrOveMents 76
3.4.3 next stePs: trail develOPMent 77
3.4.4 transPOrtatiOn and MObility wOrk PrOgraM gOals 78
 Page. 62         
     
Page. 63      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
While the land use element lays out patterns 
of uses across Emigration Canyon, the 
transportation element examines how people 
access these uses. Transportation involves 
both mobility – the ability to travel between 
places – and accessibility – the ability to reach 
valuable destinations within a reasonable 
amount of time. For Emigration Canyon 
residents and visitors, transportation planning 
is important to uphold a safe, accessible, and 
enjoyable transportation system that enables 
all users to meet their needs in the ways that 
work for them. 
3.1.1 State Code
The State of Utah requires communities to 
plan for transportation. In Utah State Code 
Section 10-9a-403, the State mandates that 
General Plans include a “transportation and 
traffic circulation element” (Municipal Land 
Use, Development, and Management Act, 
2020). This element must contain the location 
of different road types as well as public and 
active transportation infrastructure, and it 
must connect to demographic projections and 
the Land Use element. Communities without 
a major transit investment corridor – such as 
Emigration Canyon – must plan for improved 
linkages among housing, employment, 
education, recreation, and commerce.
3.1.2 Relationships, Roles & 
Responsibilities 
Broad thinking strengthens transportation 
planning and connectivity. Several entities 
and agencies’ transportation values and 
plans are therefore important to consider 
in relation to Emigration Canyon’s local 
efforts. These include the Utah Department 
of Transportation, the Utah Transit Authority, 
the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services 
District, Salt Lake County, and Salt Lake City.
Utah Department of Transportation
The Utah Department of Transportation 
(UDOT) “aim[s] to Keep Utah Moving. That 
includes everything from improving our 
roads and traffic signal timing to providing 
alternate means of getting from A to B, like 
bike lanes and public transit. We want to 
Construction Equipment on Emigration Canyon Road. Photo Courtesy of PEC Construction.
3.1 IMPORTANCE OF TRANSPORTATION 
make sure that whatever is being moved, 
freight and cargo or the people in a vehicle, 
arrives safe and promptly. It isn’t easy, but 
Keeping Utah Moving is what keeps UDOT 
going” (Utah Department of Transportation, 
2020). To complete these objectives, UDOT 
uses the core values depicted below (Figure 
3.1). Emigration Canyon representatives 
may work with UDOT regarding any non-
local roads adjacent to Emigration Canyon’s 
boundaries (e.g. US 65, which influences traffic 
in Emigration Canyon). Additionally, UDOT 
has an Active Transportation Division that 
can support Emigration Canyon’s initiatives 
regarding walking and biking. 
Utah Transit Authority (UTA)
Utah Transit Authority (UTA) “provides 
integrated mobility solutions to service life’s 
connections, improve public health and 
enhance quality of life”; they “provide an 
integrated system of innovative, accessible 
and efficient public transportation services 
that increase access to opportunities and 
contribute to a healthy environment for the 
people of the Wasatch region” (Utah Transit 
Authority, 2020). Currently, there are no public 
transit routes in Emigration Canyon other 
than the Granite School District’s school 
bus route. However, any future efforts to 
explore public transit options will necessitate 
coordination with UTA regarding public 
transit options. Communicating feedback 
about possible route pathways, infrastructure 
conditions, and frequency of stops cab be a 
useful way to engage UTA.
Wasatch Front Regional Council 
(WFRC)
The Wasatch Front Regional Council 
(WFRC) is the Metropolitan Planning 
Organization (MPO) that covers Box Elder, 
Davis, Morgan, Salt Lake, Tooele, and Weber 
counties. The responsibilities of the WFRC 
include regional transportation planning. 
Their current plan, Wasatch Choice 2050 
(https://wfrc.org/vision-plans/wasatch-
choice-2050/), establishes a range of goals 
related to transportation (Figure 3.2). The 
MSD works with the WFRC on regional 
initiatives involving various municipalities.
WFRC provides funding for various types of 
transportation projects, for which Emigration 
Canyon is eligible. 
Salt Lake County Public Works 
Engineering
Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering 
Department (Engineering) provides 
engineering services to the Greater Salt Lake 
Municipal Services District (MSD), including 
Emigration Canyon. As part of these 
services, Public Works Engineering helps to 
build and maintain roadways; administer 
encroachment, excavation and special event 
permits; and enforce stormwater (MS4) 
management compliance. Unincorporated 
Salt Lake County areas surround Emigration 
Canyon on all sides except for the western 
entrance to the canyon, which abuts Salt Lake 
City. 
Figure 3.1: UDOT core values (Utah Department of Transportation, 2020). 
 Page. 64         
     
Page. 65      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Salt Lake City (SLC)
Salt Lake City (SLC) abuts Emigration 
Canyon at the western end of the canyon 
(see Figure 1.1 for boundaries). Traffic to 
and from SLC affects the canyon, especially 
on weekends when visitor numbers tend to 
increase. To manage this use, coordination 
is needed on issues that involve the main 
canyon road (Emigration Canyon Road) such 
as striping, signage, and active transportation 
treatments.  
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services 
District (MSD)
The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services 
District (MSD) provides planning and 
development services for Emigration Canyon, 
including this General Plan. The MSD will 
continue working with the Emigration 
Canyon community and relevant partners 
from around the County, Region, and State 
to coordinate and implement transportation 
projects and programs identified in this 
chapter.
3.1.3 Community Input
This General Plan was developed using 
a participatory approach that engaged 
members of the Emigration Canyon 
community in planning for the future of 
the Municipality. Details on this process 
are provided in section 1.4. As part of the 
community input process, a Strengths, 
Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats 
(SWOT) analysis (Figure 1.5) and an Achieve, 
Preserve, Avoid, and Eliminate (APAE) 
analysis (Figure 1.6) was conducted by the 
GPSC. These analyses highlighted many 
subjects relevant to this Transportation 
element. A summary of key results are 
described in the two subsections that follow. 
Key transportation-related results from a 
workshop and a survey are described in the 
third subsection.
SWOT Analysis (Transportation)
The GPSC SWOT analysis identified 
transportation and mobility strengths 
of Emigration Canyon such as the rural 
mountain feel and the access to hiking, biking, 
and other outdoor recreation activities. 
Weaknesses included high traffic volumes, 
road maintenance, timely snow removal, and 
poor parking options. The only opportunity 
identified that was specifically related to 
transportation and mobility was buying land 
at trailheads for parking, although several 
others were peripherally related (e.g. easement 
to protect open land for public relates to 
access, which is connected to transportation 
and mobility issues). Threats from traffic/
speed violations and high traffic volumes were 
the major transportation-related concerns 
raised. 
Figure 3.2: Wasatch Choice 2050 goals (Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2019e).
APAE Analysis (Transportation)
The GPSC APAE analysis identified many transportation and mobility 
issues and possible ways forward relevant for Emigration Canyon. In 
terms of things to be achieved, many items focused on road safety 
improvements and/or trails access and infrastructure improvements 
such as the establishment of restroom facilities to accommodate the 
many recreational users in the area, as well as a connected trails system 
and associated parking. Transportation and mobility characteristics 
that were identified as needing to be preserved included rural character 
areas around Emigration Canyon and the recreational character 
and value associated with the area. Items to be avoided included 
parking issues, increased traffic, overuse of concrete barriers on the 
road, and over development (as it relates to increased traffic volumes). 
Transportation and mobility items that were identified as needing to 
be eliminated included noise pollution, off-roading, the pull off at the 
mouth of the Canyon, and uncontrolled growth/development, which 
would presumably increase traffic.
Workshop and survey results
Representatives from Emigration Canyon participated in a workshop 
to identify high-level transportation values that might be relevant 
to the Canyon community. For details see Transportation Planning 
Values box, page 64, section 1.4, and Appendix B. 
A Transportation and Land Use Survey was also disseminated to 
Emigration Canyon residents to get a better idea of the specific values, 
needs, and concerns associated with the area (for details see section 1.4 
and Appendix C). Key transportation and mobility-related concerns 
identified by survey respondents included that all 97 survey respondents 
agreed that “Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure” 
was either “very important” or “important” in terms of transportation 
concerns associated with Emigration Canyon. This was followed 
closely by “Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g. 
sidewalks, bike lanes)” with 97 percent of respondents indicating that 
this topic was either “very important” or “important”, and “Unsafe 
travel” supported by 94 percent of respondents. For a complete list of 
transportation concerns, see Figure 3.4.      
Share the Road. Photo courtesy of Scott Win-
terton, Deseret News, July 2012 
 Page. 66         
     
Page. 67      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
3.2 Transportation Planning Values
To be the most effective, values-based 
frameworks benefit from being tailored to 
reflect local values and needs. In January 
2020, five representatives from Emigration 
Canyon participated in a Transportation 
Planning Values and Principles workshop 
along with other representatives from 
MSD-member communities. Emigration 
Canyon accounted for just under 16 percent 
of workshop attendees. At this workshop, 
32 members of MSD-community Planning 
Commissions, Councils, General Plan Steering 
Committees, and several involved members of 
the public developed a list of transportation 
values broadly applicable across the MSD 
(see section 1.4.3 and Appendix B). 
Although the order of value prioritization will 
vary for Emigration Canyon, the list shown in 
Figure 3.1 captures a general suite of values 
that can help to broadly guide transportation 
decision making in Emigration Canyon. These 
values are ultimately linked to outcomes 
and performance indicators or metrics in 
the Community Work Program included at 
the end of this chapter and in Chapter 7. By 
evaluating these indicators, planners and 
decision makers can ensure that planning 
decisions are progressing the values held 
broadly by MSD member communities, and 
by the residents of Emigration Canyon in 
particular.
Some additional transportation-related 
concerns raised by survey respondents as a 
write-in option included: 
• Wildfire threats in the canyon are 
exacerbated by traffic congestion and 
overuse/abuse by visitors 
• Better enforcement of the existing noise 
ordinance will also reduce speeding/
accidents and improve quality of life in 
the canyon 
•  Clean air 
• Safe, user friendly streets for all types of 
users
• Aligning local and regional needs
• Ongoing engagement of stakeholders in 
local decision making
•  Commitment to an outcomes-based 
approach to planning, design, and 
engineering
•   Good health (of individuals and 
communities,  mental and physical). 
The top transportation values 
generated at this workshop included 
(see Figure 3.3 for a complete list of the 
top values): 
Figure 3.3: T op transportation values identified by participants at Transportation Planning Workshop (for 
details see section 1.4 and Appendix B). 
• Shortage of culinary water is a major 
concern - Some areas are just not 
suitable for increased development or 
mass transit  
These results inform the goals, objectives, and 
actions that follow in the Community Work 
Program at the end of the chapter and in 
Chapter 7. 
Transportation and mobility-related 
solutions posed by survey participants 
Many survey respondents wrote additional 
comments regarding transportation and 
mobility issues in Emigration Canyon. 
Respondents most often described safety, 
maintenance, and/or noise concerns regarding 
the heavily utilized active transportation 
corridor of Emigration Canyon Road. Some 
also offered possible creative solutions to 
these issues, including: 
• Install a toll for non-resident traffic, use 
the funds raised to build a safe bike trail 
off the road 
• Install a pickup option for package 
delivery near the mouth of the canyon
• Stop home garbage collection in 
Pinecrest (too narrow, use dumpsters 
instead)
• Close off some streets at certain times for 
pedestrian/bike access only 
• Well-timed/coordinated public 
transportation and/or ride share options 
• 2-way bicycle use with vehicular traffic 
deferential to bicyclists – this is done 
effectively in Europe, would slow traffic, 
and prioritize use of the road by those 
who keep the air clean
• Develop the main canyon road as an 
Historic Byway 
• Better internet capability would mean 
less commuting
Figure 3.4: Transportation concerns marked as either “very important” or “important” by percentage of 
survey respondents.
Above: Participants at the Transportation 
Values and Principles Workshop, January 30, 
2020. Photo courtesy of MSD Long Range 
Planning. 
 Page. 68         
     
Page. 69      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
3.3 EXISTING CONDITIONS
Emigration Canyon is a quiet, mostly residential community located a mere 10-minute drive from the Salt 
Lake City downtown and even closer to the University of Utah. The community is situated in a peaceful, 
beautiful natural environment. The road leading into the canyon has a mild grade, and is very popular with 
cyclists and hikers. 
Homes dotting the hillside in Emigration Canyon.  Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
3.3.1 Street Network 
Emigration Canyon attracts various users—
cyclists of differing skill levels; commuting 
motorists from within and out of the canyon 
who are familiar with the corridor; school 
buses; visitors who are unfamiliar with the 
corridor; and pedestrians, runners, long 
boarders and in-line skaters. This variety of 
motorists and active transportation users 
results in myriad opinions on how the corridor 
should be used, what problems or needs exist, 
and how best to address such issues. The 
canyon is also used by non-canyon residents 
as an alternative route between SLC and 
Summit County, which adds to the safety 
concerns associated with the main canyon 
road (Emigration Canyon Road).
Figure 3.5: Emigration Canyon Transportation and Traffic Circulation Map.  
Tranportation and Traffic Circulation
Class A | State
Class B | County
Class C | Municipality
Class P Private
UDOT Road Funding Class
Active Transportation and Trails 
Active Transportation
Trails and Pathways
 Page. 70         
     
Page. 71      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
3.3.2 Street Classification 
The functional classification of streets 
describes the grouping of streets or highways 
into ‘classes’ based on the character of 
service they are intended to provide (Federal 
Highway Administration, 2000). This 
classification is important for understanding 
how roads in a network relate to one another. 
There are three functional classes of streets 
in Emigration Canyon. These are labeled in 
Figure 3.5, and each class type is described in 
more detail in Table 3.1. Note that there are 
no freeways or expressways running through 
the Municipality.
T able 3.1: Functional classes of streets in Emigration Canyon.  
Functional 
Classification Streets in Classification Description
Arterial Emigration Canyon Road Arterials serve a high level of mobility, providing fast flowing 
through-traffic movement but with low level land-access 
service. These streets typically provide the most direct route 
from A to B not only for vehicles but for pedestrians and 
bicyclists as well.
Collector Pioneer Fork Road, 
Pinecrest Canyon Road  
Collectors balance both through-traffic and land-access 
functions. Collectors are used for shorter trips requiring 
increased access to destinations and can offer greater comfort 
and route choice for bicyclists because of the lower vehicle 
speeds and numerous access options for destinations.
Local Roads All other roads in 
Emigration Canyon 
Local roads primarily serve land-access functions. Local 
road design and control facilitates the movement of vehicles 
onto and off the street system from land parcels. Through 
movement is difficult and is discouraged by both the design 
and control of this facility. This level of street network is likely 
to provide the highest level of comfort to the greatest number 
of bicyclists and pedestrians. Local roads will have the lowest 
speeds and be mostly absent of large vehicles.
3.3.3 Traffic Volume and Safety 
Traffic accidents on Emigration Canyon 
Road, especially among different mode users 
(e.g. single occupancy vehicle drivers and 
bicyclists) have been a defining feature of the 
canyon transportation and mobility system 
for many years now (Figure 3.6). Obscured 
or obstructed access to the road from sharp 
turns, short drives, or garages at various points 
throughout the canyon can also contribute to 
safety issues.
A gradual increase in canyon traffic has 
occurred over time (Wasatch Front Regional 
Council, 2018b), adding to safety concerns. 
The most recent Annual Average Daily Traffic 
(AADT) counts from 2017 have increased over 
previous years’ counts by at least 100 vehicles 
per day at all count locations (Table 3.2). 
This increase has generally kept pace with 
the growth of the residential population in 
the canyon, but anecdotal evidence suggests 
that more traffic traveling from Salt Lake City 
to Park City may also be using Emigration 
Canyon as an alternate route to avoid heavy 
traffic on Foothill Drive where it intersects 
Interstate 80. Noise pollution from this steady 
traffic has become an added nuisance, 
particularly for canyon residents who live 
adjacent to Emigration Canyon Road. 
Figure 3.6: Accident data for Emigration Canyon from 2010-2020 reveals the highest density of accidents is 
at the intersection between Emigration Canyon Road and Pioneer Fork (out of 116 total incidents reported 
in that time). The focus of accidents in this area is consistent with previous work (Lochner, 2016, Fig. 3).  
Top photo: Emigration Canyon Road, courtesy of 
PEC Engineering. 
Middle photo: Residential Road in Emigration 
Canyon, Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
Bottom photo: Residential Road in Emigration 
Canyon, Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander. 
Lower Accident Density 
Higher Accident Density 
 Page. 72         
     
Page. 73      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Traffic from cyclists is at least as concerning 
for canyon residents as traffic from vehicles. 
Today Emigration Canyon is one of the top 
destinations for cyclists in Utah, with more 
than 1,300 bike trips daily (Lochner, 2016), 
but the popularity of this activity has created 
“share the road” issues. Given the increasing 
use of the canyon over the years, the physical 
parameters of the canyon and the canyon 
road, natural hazards (e.g. loose rocks, 
drainage issues, visibility), and the lack of 
consistent recreational bicycle lanes in some 
areas where the canyon is too narrow to make 
them feasible; the conflicts between bicycles 
and motor vehicles has been of increasing 
concern to residents and recreational users 
alike. 
3.3.4 Commuting Patterns
Most of the employed population of 
Emigration Canyon commute to jobs outside 
of the Canyon, with over 95 percent of  
working population employed in other 
locations in 2017 (Figure  3.7). In that year, 
only nineteen people (3.7 percent) lived and 
worked in Emigration Canyon (OntheMap 
Data, 2017; Appendix D).
Table 3.3 shows how these residents 
commute to and from their place of work. In 
2018, 76.3 percent of residents drove alone 
to their job. This was an increase from the 
percentage of people driving alone in 2010. A 
similar number was also reflected in the data 
provided by the 97 people from Emigration 
Canyon who responded to the Transportation 
and Land Use survey (Appendix C). 
Currently, there are no public transit routes 
in Emigration Canyon, nor have any been 
planned for the area in the near future 
(Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2019d). 
Granite School District’s public school bus 
route is the only public transit in the Canyon 
(for current information see https://www.
graniteschools.org/transportation/).
Because people living in the Canyon commute 
to jobs elsewhere in Salt Lake County, 
overwhelmingly in single occupancy vehicles, 
there are implications for air quality, road 
infrastructure, and housing demand (for more 
detail on this topic see Appendix D).
3.3.5 Active Transportation
Emigration Canyon Road is popular with 
active transportation users and has the 
potential to be a top tier destination for them 
(see Figure 3.5 showing active transportation 
corridor). The allure of sweeping views, mild 
canyon grades, and proximity to downtown 
Salt Lake City has not escaped the attention 
of a growing number of cyclists and runners, 
but some substantial adjustments to the 
road are needed to improve safety for these 
diverse users. Sidewalks are non-existent 
in the canyon, as are other standard urban 
infrastructure such as streetlights, benches 
and restrooms. Infrastructure hazards 
including unstable slopes, encroaching 
residential structures, tight shoulders, and 
canyon curves bring design challenges that 
urban bike design guides like NACTO and 
AASHTO do not address. 
A facilitated collaborative planning effort 
to address many of these challenges was 
undertaken in 2014 by the Emigration 
Canyon Roadway Improvement Committee 
(ECRIC), a group formed under the previous 
planning authority at Salt Lake County. 
Safety within a mixed-use corridor was the 
overarching consideration. The committee 
developed a range of recommendations 
for immediate action, including 79 specific 
roadway improvements (Lochner, 2016). An 
evaluation of the engineering deficiencies 
throughout the canyon, proposed costs 
for solutions recommended by the ECRIC, 
and additional engineering analysis were 
conducted following the release of these 
T able 3.2: 2017 AADT Data retrieved from UDOT. Source: Esri Community Maps Contributors, County 
of Salt Lake, Utah AGRC, Esri, HERE, Garmin, SafeGraph, INCREMENT P, METI/NASA, USGS, Bureau of 
Land Management, EPA, NPS, US Census Bureau, USDA. 
recommendations and compiled into the Lochner report (2016). A summary of 
the findings from this report are included in the Next Steps section (Table 3.4). 
3.3.6 Trails
Emigration Canyon is a natural playground for outdoor enthusiasts, but there is 
very little infrastructure such as parking, bathrooms, or even maintained trails 
to support these activities. While some informal trails exist in the canyon, these 
are mostly very rough and are not maintained or monitored. This means that 
excessive use by visitors can lead to erosion, property damage and pollution. A 
Trails Master Plan was adopted in 2007 to address many of these concerns, but 
little has been implemented since the adoption of the plan (Emigration Canyon 
Community Council, 2019; Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation, 2007). More 
details on trails are included in the land use section of this general plan, and in 
Appendix H and I.  
3.3.7 Accessibility
Accessibility is a measure of how many destinations can be reached within a 
reasonable distance. The WFRC measures job accessibility by automobiles 
and by transit for much of the Wasatch Front, but does not include Emigration 
Canyon in the analysis (for details see Wasatch Front Regional Council, 
2019a). However, even without this detailed analysis it is clear that residents 
of Emigration Canyon are largely dependent on the automobile or alternative 
transportation in order to access opportunities and amenities such as jobs, 
schools, grocery stores, health care facilities, and goods and services, due to 
the absence of transit and diverse land uses in the Canyon. On the other hand, 
canyon residents enjoy excellent access to 
open space and parks via both automobile 
and alternative transportation, though again 
not via transit. Accessibility is best where there 
is a mix of land uses at the neighborhood scale, 
good street connectivity, and a safe walking 
environment; these measures are unlikely to 
change in any substantial way in the near 
future for Emigration Canyon. 
Figure 3.7: Share of Emigration Canyon residents employed by 
location. Source: OntheMap Data, 2017 .
T able 3.3: Commuting Modes
 Page. 74         
     
Page. 75      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
3.4 LOOKING AHEAD
“It’s better to look ahead and prepare than to look back and regret. ” 
- Jackie Joyner-Kersee 
Deer Crossing the road. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
3.4.1 Future Projections 
Over the last ten years, traffic in Emigration 
Canyon has steadily increased across almost 
all road segments (Wasatch Front Regional 
Council, 2018b), as has the population 
living in the Canyon (Esri, 2020). Population 
projections for the canyon show a possible 
increase from around 1,800 people in 2020 
to around 3,000 people in 2050 (for details 
see Appendix D). While traffic volume on 
the Emigration Canyon Road is likely to 
continue to keep pace with regional growth, 
Emigration Canyon’s population will likely 
stabilize before 2050 due to constraints on 
residential population growth such as 1) 
limited remaining buildable areas and 2) 
water-related restrictions (see Chapter 2 for 
more details). Because of these factors, the 
future we are planning for revolves around 
only slight population growth within the 
Canyon itself, as well as enhanced use of the 
area by visitors. 
Annual average daily traffic (AADT) forecasts 
for Emigration Canyon Road project an  
increase of between 1000 to 5000 vehicles, 
reaching a high of approximately 9,700 by 
2050. The the upper and lower sections of 
the road see greater increases in traffic. This 
is largely attributable to visitors accessing 
recreation resources. Within the more 
residential section an increase of 0 to 1000 
vehicles is projected reaching up to 4,400 by 
2050 (Figure 3.8). 
The WFRC identified Emigration Canyon 
Road in their Future Active Transportation 
Network (Wasatch Front Regional Council, 
2019b). However, there are no additional 
transit  improvements outlined for the area 
(Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2019d). 
Should lower sections of Parley’s canyon 
become obstructed or closed, Emigration 
Canyon Road is the only alternative traffic 
route for I-80. A coordinated effort between 
the Township, WFRC, UDOT , and SLCo is 
recommended to ensure the road is designed 
and maintained at a standard that ensures 
it is capable of  fulfilling this potentially vital 
role.
Despite the relative stability projected for 
Emigration Canyon, if the population does 
continue to grow even slightly, a shift away 
from driving alone would help to reduce 
pressures on Emigration Canyon Road, 
especially during popular commute times. 
This trend could also help to reduce harmful 
emissions that contribute to poor air quality, a 
major concern in the Salt Lake Valley (Maffly, 
2020) and one of the highest scoring issues 
for canyon residents (Appendix C). To address 
these concerns, efforts should be made now 
Figure 3.8: Emigration Canyon Traffic Growth Projections 2017 to 2050. Source: (Wasatch Front Regional 
Council, 2018b).
2050 Projected Annual Average 
Daily traffic (AADT) forecasts 
 Page. 76         
     
Page. 77      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
to enhance telecommuting access for canyon residents, as well as to 
support appropriate small-scale increases in economic opportunities 
located within the canyon itself, although these opportunities are 
unlikely to be primarily brick and mortar businesses (see Chapter 4 for 
details).
3.4.2 Next Steps: Roadway Improvements
In the summer of 2020, a paving project was undertaken to upgrade 
Emigration Canyon Road. This project implemented several of the 
recommendations made by Lochner, 2016 (Table 3.7). Other work 
in line with these recommendations is planned as funding becomes 
available.
Crews Working on Emigration Canyon Road. Photo Courtesy 
of PEC.
Table 3.7: Summary of Lochner 2016 findings, recommendations, and progress 
Proposed improvement Expected outcome 2020 progress towards outcome 
Roadway infrastructure improvements 
including slope stability and pilot striping 
concepts.
Promote respect among all road users and 
lessen the severity of obstacles.
Engineering is applying for funding for slope 
stability projects.
Reduce speed limit to 30 mph in the stretch 
of roadway from Margarethe to Pinecrest 
(upper canyon).
Reduce hazards associated with this segment 
of road, which has narrow shoulders, unstable 
slopes, tight curves, and a high accident history. 
Conducting speed studies to see if/where 
reductions would be plausible. 
Implement solar VMS speed playback 
signage, flashing beacons, or high visibility 
flags over the reduced speed signage.
Reduce hazards associated with this segment 
of road, which has narrow shoulders, unstable 
slopes, tight curves, and a high accident history. 
Under consideration.
Choke-point signing and striping: custom 
signage to promote awareness, striping to 
mitigate safety hazards. Dots to represent 
narrow areas for both cyclists and motor 
vehicles.
Reduce hazards for bicycles and vehicles. The section in italics was not implemented as 
it was deemed a litigation risk to not follow 
standard striping. All other improvements 
implemented.   
Future roadway widening: 11-foot travel 
lanes, 1-foot buffer and 40foot cycles lanes. 
Reduce hazards for bicycles and vehicles. 11 -foot lanes and 5-foot bicycle lanes were 
installed where road width allowed. 
Add a bicycle counter to lower canyon. Provide data to help when applying for road 
improvement/maintenance funding.
Engineering has counted cars and used 
Strava data for bicycles.
3.4.3 Next Steps: Trail 
Development
The forecast is for Salt Lake Valley’s 
population to grow from 1.1 million in 2015 
to 1.7 million in 2050 (Kem C. Gardner Policy 
Institute, 2016) This suggests that all outdoor 
recreational resources will be heavily used 
– and those that are underdeveloped may 
suffer the most. Emigration Canyon needs 
to begin building a trails network designed 
and constructed to withstand the increased 
visitor pressures, and to protect its existing 
natural resources. A Trails Master Plan was 
developed by the community and adopted 
by Salt Lake County in 2007, but never 
implemented (Salt Lake County Parks and 
Recreation, 2007; Appendix H). In 2019, the 
Municipality reviewed that plan to identify a 
core set of trails and associated facilities that 
might be built relatively quickly, establishing 
a base for ongoing development (Emigration 
Canyon Community Council, 2019; Appendix 
I).  
Key recommendations from this assessment 
are outlined below. Additional details can be 
found in Appendix I.
Key Trail Development 
Recommendations
  Focus on establishing two main 
regional trailheads and improving 
signage at local trailheads
• Canyon Mouth Regional 
Trailhead  
• Little Mountain Summit Regional 
Trailhead
  Focus on creating/modifying two - 
three trails
• South Slope Regional Trail and 
the return  loop (both together)
• East Slope Regional Trail and the 
2nd return loop (both together)
  Minor restoration of the Killyons Trail 
(eroded sections)
  Partner with Salt Lake City Parks 
on the Canyon Mouth Regional 
Trailhead and associated trails
  Develop a comprehensive trails 
management plan that provides for: 
• Trail and trailhead facility 
maintenance
• Public education and signage
• Compliance with use and access 
restrictions in surrounding areas 
(Little Dell Watershed, Red Butte)
• Public safety monitoring and 
enforcement
• User impact mitigation, 
especially for private property 
owners who voluntarily allow 
public access
  Funding plan – EC Metro, Non-profit, 
etc
  Continue to pursue 2007 plan goals. 
While only a small subset of the plan’s 
proposed trails/trailheads are feasible for 
near-term implementation, others may 
eventually be realized if the Municipality 
pursues them with patience, persistence, and 
flexibility. Early fall, Freeze Creek. 
Photo Courtesy of 
Catherine Harris.
 Page. 78         
     
Page. 79      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
3.4.4 Transportation and 
Mobility Work Program Goals 
The following Transportation and Mobility 
Work Program Goals were developed 
with guidance from the GPSC, based on 
community input, and with consideration 
for the data, opportunities and challenges 
outlined in this and previous chapters. The 
work program can be used to guide the 
implementation of the General Plan and 
make progress on Emigration Canyon’s 
transportation and mobility goals. The work 
program outlines goals, objectives, and 
actions, with the responsible parties, timeline 
for implementation, approximate cost, metric 
for success, and relevant resources also 
delineated. However, the Emigration Canyon 
Metro Township Council is the governing 
body of the Municipality and will determine 
how best to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
actions included in the work plan, including 
how best to implement recommendations 
such as the formation of working groups. 
Details such as possible leads, timelines, costs, 
metrics, and resources are included to support 
implementation but are not definitive. 
Goal 3.1: Enhance the existing 
character, integrity, and 
environmental management of 
the Canyon roads. 
• Objective 3.1.1: Improve traffic and 
growth management to maintain the 
character and integrity of Emigration 
Canyon.
• Objective 3.1.2: Increase enforcement to 
avoid and/or minimize light and noise 
pollution throughout Emigration Canyon.
• Objective 3.1.3: Increase trailhead 
parking and related facilities.
Goal 3.2:  Provide a safe, efficient 
transportation network for all 
users.
 
• Objective 3.2.1: Improve safety of 
Emigration Canyon’s roadways for all 
users. 
• Objective 3.2.2: Improve regional, city-
wide, and neighborhood transportation 
management to create an efficient traffic 
system and reduce traffic impacts on air 
quality, especially during high-use times.
Cyclist in Emigration Canyon. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
 Page. 80         
     
Page. 81      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
CHAPTER 4: 
ECONOMIC 
DEVELOPMENT
CONSIDERATIONS
Emigration Creek at the Emigration Brewing Company. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
CHAPTER 4: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
CONSIDERATIONS 80
4.1 ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS 82
4.1.1 an integrated aPPrOaCh 82
4.1.2 regiOnal strategies 82
4.1.3 COMMunity inPut 83
4.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 85
4.2.1 regiOnal trends 85
4.2.2 deMOgraPhiC Overview 85
4.2.3 eMPlOyMent 86
4.2.4 the rOle OF visitOrs 86
4.2.5 hOw we sPend Our MOney 87
4.2.6 aCCess tO digital inFrastruCture 87
4.3 LOOKING AHEAD 89
4.3.1 Future OPPOrtunities  89
4.3.2 eCOnOMiC develOPMent wOrk PrOgraM gOals 90
 Page. 82         
     
Page. 83      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Consideration of Emigration Canyon’s 
economic development options is needed 
to guide long-term decision making related 
to economic challenges and opportunities 
in the Municipality. However, this element 
does not intrinsically support economic 
development. Instead, it examines options 
that could support responsible, equitable, 
and sustainable economic activities in the 
area, especially as part of a wider regional 
context, and clarifies the kinds of economic 
development that would not be appropriate 
for Emigration Canyon. A mix of market 
research, community feedback, and local 
and regional plan integration informs the 
goals, objectives, and actions included in this 
element of the General Plan.
4.1.1 An integrated approach
Economic opportunities are tied to land use, 
transportation, housing, infrastructure, and 
resilience decisions, as well as community 
history and identity. In Utah, sales tax 
revenue funds much of a Metro Township’s 
budget, and Emigration Canyon’s land use 
ordinances determine how many properties 
can generate sales tax. As a Metro Township, 
Emigration Canyon can use the revenue 
generated from sales tax to fund projects and 
endeavors that matter most to local residents. 
Local zoning determines where which types of 
businesses – home occupations, restaurants 
– are allowed and how they can operate. 
The connectedness of the transportation 
network influences how convenient it is for 
customers and businesses to reach each other, 
potentially influencing a business’ ability 
to move products. Housing costs determine 
how much income a household has left to 
spend on goods and services, including food, 
entertainment, and recreation. Meanwhile 
Emigration Canyon’s resident (and visitor) 
population serves as a market that sets the 
framework for which business types can 
succeed. Community aesthetics such as curb 
appeal (the attractiveness of a property when 
viewed from the street), attract customers and 
impact business success. Well-maintained, 
safe infrastructure supports economic 
stability, and at the same time, economic 
stability enables infrastructure maintenance. 
Likewise, economically diverse communities 
are more resilient to hazards and changes 
(e.g. pandemics, earthquakes, demographic 
change). All of these connections encourage 
taking an integrated approach to economic 
development planning in Emigration Canyon. 
4.1.2 Regional strategies
Emigration Canyon has not included a 
dedicated Economic Development element in 
any previous general plans, but there are some 
economic development strategies occurring 
in the region that are likely to influence future 
Canyon opportunities.
The Wasatch Choice 2050 is a regional 
plan developed by the Wasatch Front 
Regional Council (WFRC) that aims to create 
a robust and collaborative vision for the 
entire Wasatch Front, including the area 
in and surrounding Emigration Canyon. 
Wasatch Choice 2050 proposes several 
transportation updates and land use clusters 
that may help direct sustainable growth 
in the area. On the Wasatch Choice 2050 
Map, Emigration Canyon’s general land 
uses are shown as either rural preservation 
green space (current), or parks or protected 
lands (future). The proximity of the Canyon 
to the research/education/office center and 
economic cluster at the University of Utah 
emphasizes the role that the Canyon plays as 
an important natural resource amenity that 
supports development elsewhere (Wasatch 
Front Regional Council, 2019c). 
Comprehensive Economic 
Development Strategy: 
2018-2030 The Wasatch Choice 2050 Vision 
includes ten goals (see Figure 3.2 for details) 
that directly tie to and impact economic 
development opportunities across the region 
through four key strategies described in 
the 2018-2023 Comprehensive Economic 
Development Strategy (Wasatch Front 
Regional Council, 2018a): 
1. Link Development with Transportation 
and Other Infrastructure - Coordinated 
transportation, infrastructure, and land-
use decisions to enhance household’s 
access to jobs and educational 
4.1 ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS
opportunities and employer’s access to 
workforce and customers.
2. Create Fiscally Sustainable Places - 
Revenues and expenses are balanced and 
sustainable for households, communities, 
and the region.
3. Provide Amenities - Maintain quality of 
life elements that attract skilled labor by 
encouraging more walkable cities, open 
space preservation, and improved air and 
water quality.
4. Attract and Retain Businesses, and 
Encourage Innovation - Support 
and encourage business retention, 
job creation, workforce development, 
and innovation by partnering and 
information sharing.
Wasatch Canyons General Plan 2020 
The recently adopted Wasatch Canyons 
General Plan does not include Emigration 
Canyon within its planning boundaries, but 
because it is associated with a neighboring 
area with similar canyon characteristics, 
some of the goals and strategies are likely to 
resonate with Emigration Canyon residents. 
The Wasatch Canyons General Plan sets 
out the following vision and a set of guiding 
principles for economy (Salt Lake County 
Regional Development, 2020; Appendix G): 
VISION: 
Sustain the Wasatch Canyons as a world-
class recreation destination that provides 
significant economic benefit to the region. 
Enable businesses to continue providing 
goods and services without compromising 
the environment. 
GUIDING PRINCIPLES: 
1. Context-Appropriate: Attract and retain 
canyon businesses that are economically 
and environmentally sustainable. 
2. Tourism: Recognize that tourism is a 
fundamental component of the Utah 
economy and is dependent on healthy 
and abundant natural and scenic 
resources. 
3. Stewardship: Encourage businesses 
to be environmental stewards through 
practices and educational outreach to 
customers and visitors. 
4. Branding: Promote signage and branding 
that highlights the history and heritage of 
the Canyons, and promotes appreciation 
and stewardship.
4.1.3 Community Input
Details on the participatory approach used to 
engage members of the Emigration Canyon 
community in the development of this General 
Plan are included in section 1.4. As part of the 
community input, a Strengths, Weaknesses, 
Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis 
(Figure 1.5) and an Achieve, Preserve, Avoid, 
and Eliminate (APAE) analysis (Figure 1.6) 
was conducted by the GPSC. A summary of 
key results relevant to this Economic element 
are included in the two subsections that follow. 
Key results from the Transportation and Land 
Use Survey relevant to economic development 
are described in the third subsection. 
SWOT Analysis (Economic 
Considerations)
Strengths identified in the SWOT analysis and 
relevant to the economic element included the 
fact that Emigration Canyon is composed 
of a largely affluent, well educated, active 
community of residents. Weaknesses included 
slow internet, a low sense of community, and 
poor parking options (relevant for brick and 
mortar businesses). Opportunities to support 
sustainable local businesses and improve 
air quality (through having access to a 
more diverse local economy) were identified. 
Threats included over development and high 
traffic volumes.
APAE Analysis (Economic 
Considerations)
The APAE analysis identified several items 
relevant to consider in future economic 
decision making for Emigration Canyon. 
Achieving high speed internet/fiber optics in 
the Canyon was identified as a need, along 
with supporting sustainable local businesses 
and hosting local events that enhance a 
sense of community. The need to preserve 
historic areas, rural character, recreational 
values, and workspaces for local artists/
musicians were also identified. Economic 
development considerations to avoid included 
overdevelopment, short-term rentals, parking 
issues and increased traffic. The elimination 
of issues such as pollution and uncontrolled 
growth/development were considered 
economically relevant items to aspire to in 
decision making.
 Page. 84         
     
Page. 85      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Transportation and Land Use Survey
Public feedback makes it clear that Emigration 
Canyon survey respondents are not deeply 
interested in economic development in their 
area, with “Business Mix” scoring at the bottom 
of the list of “important” or “very important” 
considerations related to development in 
the area (Figure 1.7). However, in order to 
support strongly held environmental values 
such as “Clean Air” and “Sustainability and 
Energy Efficiency”, some consideration of 
sustainable economic development is needed. 
For example, if there were a few more local 
services in Canyon, residents might be able to 
avoid driving to access these goods. Similarly, 
the emphasis on the importance of “Parks and 
open spaces” means that respondents think 
of these areas as valuable assets that should 
be protected. Considering these assets as 
part of a sustainable economic development 
portfolio for both Emigration Canyon and 
the wider region can support conservation 
arguments.  
Defining growth, 
development, and 
sustainability
Although the terms growth and development 
are often used interchangeably, they are not 
synonymous. Growth refers to any increase 
in a measure over time. Economic growth 
could indicate an increase in jobs or in 
gross domestic product (GDP) for example. 
Development, on the other hand, is a more 
complex and holistic term, focusing not just 
on the increasing measure of an indicator but 
also on whether resulting changes are positive 
or negative, and what impacts changes have 
on various systems. Development typically 
includes some consideration for the overall 
well-being of human populations. Defined this 
way, development is “an unfolding of human 
potentials for meaningful participation 
in economic, social, political, and cultural 
process and institutions, so that people can 
improve their conditions” (Kamal, 2011). 
Economic development therefore looks at 
upward mobility, quality of life, diversity of 
businesses, and the ability for residents to meet 
daily employment, shopping, service, and 
financing needs. This element of Emigration 
Canyon’s General Plan therefore focuses on 
economic development, a critical component 
of Emigration Canyon’s future success. 
Sustainable development, defined by the 
UN World Commission on Environment and 
Development as “development that meets the 
needs of the present without compromising 
the ability of future generations to meet their 
own needs (Brundtland, 1987)” is a crucial 
component of Emigration Canyon’s economic 
development plan.
Due to its low population density and 
the high value placed by the community 
on the abundant natural landscape, the 
conservation of natural lands is a key strategy 
needed to protect both the quality of life of 
Emigration Canyon residents, and to support 
the long-term economic viability of natural 
resource based activities such as outdoor 
recreation in the region. Emigration Canyon 
is an asset that supports economic growth 
throughout Utah through attraction of new 
job-creating businesses, and recruitment of 
skilled workers. Any economic development 
strategies that are applied in Emigration 
Canyon must therefore support economic 
vitality without sacrificing the beauty 
and utility of the surrounding landscape 
(Partnership for Sustainable Communities, 
2011). Sustainability strategies promoted by 
the United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals platform to address such issues include:  
• Encourage land use that prevents 
degradation and unsustainable 
exploitation of resources;
• Encourage the use of environmentally 
friendly practices;
• Promote sustainable natural resources 
use and management, including 
ecosystem conservation through 
community-based programs;
• Promote safe and environmentally 
sound waste management practices 
(United Nations Department of 
Economic and Social Affairs, 2009).
4.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS
4.2.1 Regional Trends
Emigration Canyon is located within Salt 
Lake County and with easy access to the 
University of Utah and Downtown Salt Lake 
City. The municipality is influenced by the 
growth that has been occurring throughout 
the Salt Lake Valley, and it is connected to 
regional destinations via Emigration Canyon 
Road and Route 65 (see Figure 1.1). Examining 
county-wide market trends helps us to 
understand Emigration Canyon’s role within 
the regional economy and the opportunities 
that may lead to future economic success.
Based on a location quotient and shift share 
analysis (see Appendix  F for details), in Salt 
Lake County, the most prominent emerging 
industries are Retail Trade, Accommodation 
and Food Services, Manufacturing, and other 
services. These industries demand commercial 
real estate, namely retail spaces and some 
industrial space to serve manufacturing 
needs. Options for expanding these industries 
in Emigration Canyon are extremely limited 
and of little interest to the community. 
However, growing industries in Salt Lake 
County include Professional and Technical 
Services, Transportation and Warehousing, 
Wholesale Trade, and Education Services. 
Some professional and technical service or 
education service businesses may not require 
a great deal of brick and mortar space, and a 
high percentage of the employed population 
of Emigration Canyon likely work in these 
sectors. Therefore, some opportunities in 
these categories may align with the Canyon 
economic development goals outlined in this 
Plan (see work program). 
4.2.2 Demographic Overview
The population of Emigration Canyon has 
grown steadily over the last few decades, from 
1,192 in 2000 to 1,806 in 2020 (Esri, 2020, 
Figure 4.1). If the population continues to 
grow at this rate, which is somewhat unlikely 
given environmental and other constraints, 
the population could increase to around 
2,300 by 2030 (ibid). Over the next five years, 
the per capita income is not expected to 
increase substantially for Emigration Canyon 
residents, but current and projected per capita 
incomes are already well above the averages 
for Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County, and the 
State (for details see Appendix D).
Average household size has been relatively 
steady at around 2.7 persons per household 
in Emigration Canyon since 2000, and it is 
projected to remain the same for the next five 
years. There are currently 681 households 
in the Municipality, a dramatic increase 
of 56% from the 436 households in the 
Canyon in 2000. The area has traditionally 
had a very homogeneous racial and ethnic 
profile, although over the next five years a 
very modest increase in the percentage of 
residents identifying as minority racial and 
ethnic groups is projected for the area.
Prominent age brackets are highlighted in 
Table 4.1. The 2018 age distribution shows 
a large population that is middle-aged or 
in the early years of retirement, and many 
of these residents have pre-teen or teen 
children living at home. Over the next five 
years, the population of residents in 65+ age 
brackets will rise considerably. Because of 
these projected changes, looking forward 
the community will need to respond to the 
needs of diverse age groups, accommodating 
both an aging population and an increased 
population of youth.   
T able 4.1 (at left): Age ranges, current and 
projected, for Emigration Canyon (Esri Business 
Analyst, 2018)
 Page. 86         
     
Page. 87      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
4.2.3  Employment
Emigration Canyon is home to at least 15 
local businesses who provide employment 
for approximately 173 employees (Table 4.2). 
Canyon residents generally have a high level 
of educational attainment, with 72 percent of 
the population holding a bachelor’s degree 
or higher. Canyon residents also tend to work 
in professional level office jobs (86 percent) 
and to drive alone to work (76.3 percent). Ten 
percent of Canyon residents work in the service 
industry, four percent work in more physical 
labor positions, and the unemployment rate 
for residents in the Canyon is around 5 percent. 
4.2.4 The Role of Visitors
Emigration Canyon offers visitors access to 
many world-class recreational opportunities 
in a beautiful, mountainous open space 
setting, including:
•  Road cycling 
•  Hiking
•  Mountain biking
•  Snowshoeing
•  Cross-country skiing
•  Hunting
Emigration Canyon and Big Mountain cycling 
routes have been in the top 10 roads for Utah 
cyclists, and are known around the US as well 
(Utah Office of Tourism, 2020). This popularity 
is likely to increase in the coming decades: 
Utah’s population is projected to double by 
2050 (Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute, 2016) 
and housing density is expected to increase 
in Salt Lake County, with an expected 
new housing development at the mouth of 
Emigration Canyon, where the University of 
Utah is planning construction of 7600 new 
apartments and 950 townhomes over the 
next 20 years (Semerad, 2020).  
With an influx of visitors in the coming years, 
how should Emigration Canyon balance 
economic sustainability with preserving the 
community’s dedication to the environment, 
recreational amenities, and historic identity? 
The Wasatch Canyons General Plan frames 
this problem in terms of “visitor carrying 
capacity…when looking at the amount of 
people recreating or visiting the area in a 
period of time… There are many different 
types of capacity such as transit, vehicles on 
roads, trail head parking, trails, skiers… All 
of these different uses can have impacts on 
watersheds, ecosystems, wildlife and more” 
(Salt Lake County Regional Development, 
2020, pg 10). Steps to respond to such impacts 
might include:
• Encouraging visitors to use alternative 
modes of transportation (e.g. public 
transit/ride sharing, carpooling, biking) 
to help prevent adverse effects on traffic, 
parking, and air quality.
• Promoting commercial uses or 
community events that enhance 
community bonding and attract 
visitors, but are small-scale, seasonal, 
or temporary, to limit their impact on 
the community’s natural surroundings 
and small-town character (e.g. local food 
trucks, farmer’s market, ice cream/shaved 
ice stand).
• Developing policies that protect wildlife 
from vehicles and erosion of habitats.
Figure 4.1: Demographic Profile of Emigration Canyon (Esri, 2020).
• Developing policies that protect the 
integrity of the Canyon’s trails and 
hunting areas (e.g. prevent overcrowding, 
watershed contamination). 
• Developing policies that protect the 
Canyon and its residents from fire danger 
and other hazards.  
4.2.5 How We Spend Our 
Money
A program by ESRI Business Analyst 
characterizes populations. By taking these 
characteristics into account, civil servants 
can plan in ways tailored to the community.  
These characteristics indicate what economic 
development may thrive in a community. 
Emigration Canyon is characterized entirely 
by a tapestry segment called “Top Tier”:
• Top Tier is a highly educated, successful 
consumer market: more than one in three 
residents has a postgraduate degree.
• Annually, they earn more than three 
times the US median household income, 
primarily from wages and salary, but 
also self-employment income and 
investments.
• Socially responsible consumers who aim 
for a balanced lifestyle, they are goal 
oriented and hardworking but make time 
for their kids or grandkids and maintain a 
close-knit group of friends.
• These busy consumers seek variety in life. 
They take an interest in the fine arts; read 
to expand their knowledge; and consider 
the Internet, radio, and newspapers as 
key media sources. 
• They regularly cook their meals at home, 
attentive to good nutrition and fresh 
organic foods.
4.2.6 Access to Digital 
Infrastructure
Emigration Canyon residents and businesses 
rely on high-speed internet access for many 
aspects of modern life. It is the gateway to 
more and better jobs, improved educational 
access, a portal to public services and quality 
healthcare, and generally improves quality 
of life (Tomer et. al, 2020). The COVID-19 
pandemic has intensified residents’ 
dependence on high-speed internet access,  
making access a dependency for residents 
who wish to participated in work and learning 
activities digitally. Further illuminating the 
“digital divide” that separates high-income 
and low-income neighborhoods in America 
(Hegel and Wilding, 2019).  Those who don’t 
have reliable high-speed internet access 
can miss out on economic opportunities. 
To address these challenges going forward, 
decision makers in Emigration Canyon could 
determine levels of broadband internet access 
within Emigration Canyon, identify existing 
gaps, and explore options that can narrow the 
“digital divide”. 
Other widespread digital infrastructure 
concerns that could be considered for analysis 
in future iterations of this General Plan 
include access to digital technology such as 
laptops and WiFi hotspots. These devices are 
T able 4.2: Current business and employees based in Emigration Canyon.
 Page. 88         
     
Page. 89      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
considered luxury items for many households, 
but have become a requirement during the 
pandemic in order for many children and 
adults to participate in educational and 
economic opportunities (Duffy and Tappe, 
2020).  
Existing Commercial Development 
in Emigration Canyon
Emigration Canyon has limited land use and 
zoning dedicated to commercial development 
(for details see Chapter 2). Area to expand 
existing commercial development is limited 
by current commercial zoning conditions, 
geographic constraints (e.g. slope), and little 
desire from community members to add 
commercial zoning (see details section 1.4). 
Some prominent local businesses include:  
Kostopulos Dream Foundation (“Camp 
K”) is a charitable organization that provides 
access for children/adults with disabilities to 
recreational and educational opportunities 
such as ropes courses, horse riding, swimming, 
fishing, and summer camps.
Ruth’s Diner has been in business for almost 
90 years and is featured on the Food Network’s 
“Top Places to Eat” and the hit show Diners, 
Drive-ins, and Dives.
Emigration Brewing Company was 
founded near the site of Utah’s first brewery 
(1865) and collaborates with local brewers to 
emphasize small batch, local and handcrafted 
beer with a European influence.
Ruth’s Diner. 
Photos from left: Camp Kostopulos, Ruth’s Diner, 
Emigration Brewing Co. Courtesy of Maridene 
Alexander.
Fall Color in Emigration Canyon.  Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
“Without environmental sustainability, economic stability and social cohesion cannot be 
achieved. ”  
- Phil Harding 
4.3 LOOKING AHEAD
4.3.1 Future Opportunities 
This Economic Development element 
focuses on finding the key areas where data 
on existing conditions, regional trends, and 
community interests and needs align. The 
areas where alignment occurs represent the 
strongest opportunities for future economic 
development in Emigration Canyon. Three 
main categories emerge from this analysis: 
Neighborhood Commercial; Recreational 
Support; and Culture and Identity.
Neighborhood Commercial
The Emigration Canyon community 
would benefit from providing additional 
support to existing local businesses, and 
potentially supporting some very small-scale 
neighborhood commercial opportunities. The 
addition of a light neighborhood commercial 
zoning category that was tailored to support 
only those businesses that could provide goods 
and services to canyon residents and visitors 
while also aligning with the sustainability 
values expressed in this General Plan, could 
enhance the resilience and sustainability 
of Emigration Canyon. Strategies such as 
1) ensuring that local businesses are well-
connected to transportation routes; 2) adding 
features that promote stronger social cohesion 
 Page. 90         
     
Page. 91      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
and 3) providing low-impact opportunities for 
visitors to access goods and services in the 
area (e.g. farmer’s market, food trucks, art fair, 
music festival) would align with goals and 
objectives outlined in several other elements 
of this plan (e.g. Land Use, Transportation, 
Resilience).
The EC Metro can help champion local 
businesses by:
• Informing local businesses about county, 
state, or federal financial assistance/
incentives/programs that are available to 
small businesses (e.g. Business Expansion 
and Retention (BEAR) programs 
available through Salt Lake County 
Office of Regional Development).
• Informing local businesses of the many 
employment resources from the Utah 
Department of Workforce Services 
to help them hire quality employees, 
provide training, and navigate difficult 
employment issues such as layoffs or 
downsizing.
• Cultivating an “open-door policy” where 
local businesses can feel comfortable 
expressing their wishes, questions, 
or concerns with community leaders, 
and get assistance navigating local 
government regulations.
Recreational Support
Emigration Canyon boasts world-class 
open space and a wide array of outdoor 
recreational opportunities. But currently there 
is little to keep people on-site after an event or 
recreational activity is over -- visitors don not 
spend their money locally. Expanding uses that 
support recreation help capture recreation 
and tourism revenue. The Emigration Canyon 
Metro Township Council could explore small-
scale, seasonal/temporary commercial uses 
that can entice visitors to spend their money 
in Emigration Canyon after they enjoy the 
community’s natural beauties (e.g. local food 
trucks, farmer’s market, ice cream/shaved ice 
stand).
Culture and Identity
Wayfinding is “an important tool for helping 
people navigate and fully experience an area. 
Well-placed signage ensures that people can 
safely reach desired destinations. It also can 
help people discover new areas of interest in 
an impromptu way. Good wayfinding design 
fits and even enhances the unique character 
of an area” (Slottach-Ratcliff & Cowgill, 2015, 
pg. 7). Wayfinding can encourage residents 
and visitors towards local goods and services 
and bring in recreation/tourism dollars (ibid). 
Looking ahead, the EC Metro could ponder 
the following question in the coming months 
and years: how can we enhance the unique 
identity of the area to draw people in and 
create one-of-a-kind experiences, while also 
managing visitor impacts through improved 
infrastructure/parking?
4.3.2 Economic Development 
Work Program Goals
The following Economic Development Work 
Program goals were developed with guidance 
from the GPSC, based on community 
input, and with consideration for the data, 
opportunities and challenges outlined in this 
and previous chapters. The work program 
can be used to guide the implementation 
of the General Plan and make progress on 
Emigration Canyon’s economic goals. The 
work program outlines goals, objectives, and 
actions, with the responsible parties, timeline 
for implementation, approximate cost, metric 
for success, and relevant resources also 
delineated. However, the Emigration Canyon 
Metro Township Council is the governing 
body of the Municipality and will determine 
how best to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
actions included in the work plan, including 
how best to implement recommendations 
such as the formation of working groups. 
Some details are included to support 
implementation but are not definitive.
Goal 4.1: Foster responsible, 
equitable, and sustainable 
economic development in 
keeping with the character and 
values of Emigration Canyon.
• Objective 4.1.1: Enhance a community 
environment that embraces sustainable 
economic growth, while preserving 
the community’s dedication to the 
environment, recreational amenities and 
historic identity.
Moose above Emigration Canyon. Photo Courtsy of Catherine Harris.
 Page. 92         
     
Page. 93      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
CHAPTER 5: 
ENVIRONMENT
“For me, it always comes back to the land, respecting the land, the wildlife, the plants, the rivers, 
mountains, and deserts, the absolute essential bedrock of our lives. This is the source of where 
my power lies, the source of where all our power lies. ” 
- Terry Tempest Williams
Maple Draw below Pinecrest. Photo Courtesy of Bill Tobey.
CHAPTER 5: ENVIRONMENT 92
5.1 INTRODUCTION 94
5.1.1 state COde 94
5.1.2 values, rOles, and resPOnsibilities 94
5.1.3 regiOnal eFFOrts and Plans 96
5.1.4 COMMunity inPut 98
5.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 99
5.2.1 Overview 99
5.3 INTERGENERATIONAL PLANNING 105
5.3.1 visiOns FOr the Future 105
5.3.2 envirOnMent wOrk PrOgraM gOals  107
 Page. 94         
     
Page. 95      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
5.1 INTRODUCTION
Careful management of the ecosystems of 
Emigration Canyon is needed to maintain a 
high quality of life, now and in the future, for all 
members of the Canyon community, human 
and otherwise. Factors such as light, noise, air 
and water pollution, water availability, sprawl 
development, overuse of trails and risk of fires 
have the potential to significantly degrade 
the habitats that provide this high quality of 
life to residents of the area, and that make it a 
sanctuary for visitors who live in more urban 
spaces. In recent years, population growth 
and increasing visitation has heightened 
these risks. 
Balancing the needs and interests of the 
members of this complex and interconnected 
human-environmental system can be 
challenging. Some interests, such as 
conservation and development, may seem 
to inherently conflict with one another. This 
Environmental element of the General Plan 
takes into account many of these potential 
conflicts and guides decision making to 
ensure that environmental protections are 
in place and a high environmental quality 
is maintained in the Canyon today, and for 
future generations.
This element takes a holistic, ecosystem-
based approach to environmental planning 
(after Hammond, 2002). The approach 
aims to ensure the protection, maintenance, 
and restoration of ecological health and 
biodiversity at a range of spatial and temporal 
scales. The ecosystem-based approach 
also recognizes that human-environmental 
relationships are an inextricable component 
of the system (Secretariat of the Convention 
on Biological Diversity, 2004). The approach 
enables the development of a robust 
conceptualization of the goods and services, 
benefits and values associated with the 
ecosystems of the Canyon and therefore 
supports a full accounting of these systems 
in all decision making (Guerry et al., 2015). 
For example, instead of considering the 
value of individual natural resources (e.g. 
water or soil), the element considers the 
health of fully functioning ecosystems (and 
their relationships to humans) as a more 
appropriate metric. The ecosystem-based 
approach to environmental planning aligns 
with the environmental values of many 
Canyon residents, as set out in the values 
section of Chapter 1. 
This chapter provides a guide to consider 
current and future environmental impacts 
and ensure that environmental protections 
are in place and a high environmental quality 
is maintained in the Canyon today, and for 
future generations. The chapter does NOT 
address the preparedness and adaptive 
capacity of the Municipality in any depth. 
That topic is covered in the following chapter 
on Resilience and Infrastructure. 
5.1.1 State Code
Utah State Code section 10-9a-403 allows 
for an environmental element of general plans 
that addresses “the protection, conservation, 
development, and use of natural resources, 
including the quality of air, forests, soils, rivers 
and other waters, harbors, fisheries, wildlife, 
minerals, and other natural resources.” 
Although this chapter is not required by the 
code, it is an essential element for Emigration 
Canyon due to the close relationship that 
exists between the residents of the area, 
their built environments, and the natural 
environment that surrounds them. The 
chapter provides a guide to consider current 
and future environmental impacts and aims 
to prevent significant adverse effects on the 
valuable natural resources of Emigration 
Canyon.
5.1.2 Values, Roles, and 
Responsibilities
Values, roles and responsibilities guide 
environmental decision making and 
implementation in Emigration Canyon and 
the surrounding areas. While the Municipality 
has land use authority within its own 
boundaries as outlined in Chapter 1, decisions 
made in the surrounding areas also influence 
the available options. Aligning the goals of 
the Municipality with regional values and 
acknowledging the roles and responsibilities 
of different organizations and institutions 
that have an influence over environmental 
decision making in Emigration Canyon 
increases the likelihood of acquiring funding 
and successfully implementing projects. 
United States Forest Service
Much of Emigration Canyon is included within 
the Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest 
(Figure 2.2) as part of the United States Forest 
Service (USFS) Salt Lake Ranger District and 
the Central Wasatch Management Area. The 
Salt Lake City Watershed is defined in the code 
as “ All of the Emigration Canyon watershed 
area that contributes water to Emigration 
Creek from Burr Fork and Killyon Canyon 
above a point at the intersection of Emigration 
Canyon Road and Pinecrest Canyon Road. 
Various rules and regulations have been put 
in place to protect this valuable water resource 
and ensure that the land remains in its natural 
state.
United States Environmental 
Protection Agency
The mission of the United States Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) is to protect human 
health and the environment. The EPA works 
to ensure that Americans have clean air, land 
and water by implementing and enforcing 
rules and regulations that set standards 
which must be met by States and Tribes. The 
EPA has been involved in overseeing water 
quality remediation efforts associated with 
Emigration Creek. 
United States Army Corps of 
Engineers
The United States Army Corps of Engineers, 
in partnership with the EPA, is responsible for 
wetlands management, study and protection, 
including on private property. Federal laws 
require no net loss of wetlands, which means 
that if a designated wetland is eliminated, 
another wetland site must be acquired and 
preserved to replace the site that is lost. 
Jurisdictional wetlands have been delineated 
along Emigration Creek and there may 
be isolated wetland areas along tributary 
drainages.
Utah Division of Water Rights
The Utah Division of Water Rights (DWRi) is 
an agency of Utah State Government within 
the Department of Natural Resources that 
administers the appropriation and distribution 
of the State’s valuable water resources.
Utah Department of Environment 
Quality
The Utah Department of Environmental 
Quality’s (DEQ) mission is, “Safeguarding and 
improving Utah’s air, land and water through 
balanced regulation.” The organization 
implements State and federal environmental 
laws and works with individuals, community 
groups, and businesses to protect the quality of 
our air, land and water. The Division of Drinking 
Water plays an important role in protecting 
and monitoring well water and groundwater, 
while the Division of Water Quality monitors 
and maintains other water bodies across the 
State. The Division of Air Quality could also 
be an important partner in working towards 
protecting the environment of Emigration 
Canyon.
Utah Open Lands Conservation 
Association
Due to their proximity to Salt Lake City, 
unprotected areas throughout Emigration 
Canyon are of interest to property developers. 
The Utah Open Lands Conservation 
Association is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit land trust 
conservation association that is chartered to 
preserve and protect open space in order to 
maintain Utah’s natural heritage and quality 
of life for present and future generations. Since 
2001, Utah Open Lands has raised funds and 
established partnerships to preserve numerous 
parcels of land in Emigration Canyon, today 
totaling over 1,000 acres and approximately 
9% of the land (See Figure 2.1).
Salt Lake City
Lands in Emigration Canyon owned by the 
Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities 
(SLCDPU) are maintained primarily for 
watershed and open space purposes.  SLCDPU 
holds and maintains surface and groundwater 
rights in the Emigration Creek watershed for 
current and future water supply purposes. 
Title 17 Chapter 17.04 of the Salt Lake City 
Code defines a portion of the watershed as 
protected. This area is defined in the code as 
“ All of the Emigration Canyon watershed area 
that contributes water to Emigration Creek 
from Burr Fork and Killyon Canyon above a 
point at the intersection of state Highways 
65 and 172.” SLCDPU is currently updating a 
long-range watershed management plan for 
the area, which should be completed sometime 
in 2022.
 Page. 96         
     
Page. 97      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Salt Lake County
Traditionally, federal agencies such as 
USFS were responsible for completing 
resource management plans for much of 
the public lands within Utah, but Utah State 
Code was amended in 2015 (and again in 
2016) to require every county in Utah to 
complete a County Resource Management 
Plan addressing all public lands within its 
jurisdiction. More details on this plan are 
included in the following section.
Lands in Emigration Canyon owned by Salt 
Lake County are maintained primarily for 
watershed and open space purposes. As 
part of this effort, Upper Emigration Creek 
is designated as a Category 1 High Quality 
Waters in accordance with UAC R371-2, 
Standards of Quality for Waters of the State, 
Section R317-2-3, Antidegradation Policy 
(Salt Lake County Watershed Planning & 
Restoration, 2015). Designated Category 1 
waters must be maintained at existing high 
quality. New point-source discharges are 
prohibited in segments of Category 1 waters, 
and diffuse sources must be controlled to the 
extent feasible through implementation of 
best management practices or regulatory 
programs. This designation helps to ensure 
that much of the publicly owned or managed 
land in Emigration Canyon remains in its 
natural state.    
Other important environmental departments 
housed within Salt Lake County include: 
• Salt Lake County Health Department 
– responsible for monitoring and 
maintaining water quality in Emigration 
Canyon, including septic tanks and 
wells, and adhering to EPA water quality 
standards. 
• Salt Lake County Watershed 
Restoration – active in the Canyon, 
help with monitoring of water quality, 
are in charge of flood control measures 
and would be involved in designing and 
implementing measures for wetland 
restoration.
• Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation 
– operates fund for buying land to 
protect viewshed, wildlife habitat, and 
recreational access.
Emigration Canyon Improvement 
District
The Emigration Canyon Improvement 
District (EID) is a local special service district 
created under Utah Law.  As such it is an 
independent governmental entity governed 
by a Board of Trustees. The EID is the culinary 
water provider for portions of Emigration 
Canyon and therefore establishes rules and 
regulations that govern this service including 
setting rates and fees. The EID also has the 
power to establish a property tax to help fund 
the services it provides. 
The EID’s role in planning and zoning is 
limited. The EID does not have any power to 
adopt land use control ordinances or approve 
or deny any land use applications, but EID 
input on the adoption and implementation 
of general plans is needed to assist with 
long term planning regarding culinary water 
provision in the Canyon. The Municipality’s 
plans will affect future demands on the EID 
for services and EID’s capacity will affect the 
Municipality’s ability to allow future growth.  
5.1.3 Regional Efforts and Plans
Ecosystem-based planning approaches 
consider interactions across a range of 
spatial and temporal scales in order to 
protect, maintain, and restore the complex 
ecosystems that do not necessarily start or 
end at a municipal boundary. There are several 
regional planning efforts that are relevant 
to consider in relation to the environmental 
goals and objectives of Emigration Canyon.
United States Forest Service Plans
The most recent USFS plan (US Forest 
Service, 2003) relevant for Emigration 
Canyon maintains that the need to provide 
long-term, high quality culinary water to the 
Salt Lake Valley is the underlying premise 
of resource management in the Central 
Wasatch Management Area. The Plan also 
states that providing quality recreation 
opportunities within the framework of 
watershed protection will be an increasing 
challenge as the population and interest in 
the area as a recreation destination grows. 
To respond to these challenges, the Plan 
indicates that “continued coordination and 
cooperation among federal, state, and local 
government agencies, residents, businesses, 
and the recreating public will be imperative 
in order to meet these growing demands (pg. 
4-153).”
Wasatch Choice 2050 Vision
The Wasatch Choice 2050 Vision (Wasatch 
Front Regional Council, 2019e), collaboratively 
developed with input from cities, counties, 
transportation partners, businesses, and 
community organizations regarding local 
and regional priorities, is supported by four 
key strategies: 
1.  Provide transportation choices, offering 
better access to transit and bicycle facilities.
2.  Support housing options, responding to 
market demands and allowing for greater 
choices.
3.  Preserve open space, providing 
unparalleled access to the outdoors, which 
is key to our quality of life and competitive 
advantage.
4.  Link economic development with 
transportation and housing decisions, 
thinking about the interplay between them 
and ultimately the outcomes we want to 
achieve.
The first, third and fourth strategies are 
particularly relevant for the ecosystem-based 
planning efforts of Emigration Canyon, as 
alignments across these scales may create 
opportunities to leverage funding to facilitate 
implementation of Emigration Canyon’s 
environmental goals and objectives.
Salt Lake County Resource 
Management Plan
All Counties are required by law to develop a 
County Resource Management Plan (CRMP). 
This is a planning document used to define 
policy, goals, and objectives for managing 
natural resources on public lands (Transfer of 
Public Lands Act, 2012) within each county. 
The Act further defines 28 core resources 
which must be considered in the CRMP. In 
advance of the CRMP process, an assessment 
of County resources (Salt Lake Conservation 
District, 2013) identified the following priority 
concerns:
1. Water Quantity and Quality 
2. Noxious and Invasive Weeds 
3. Loss of Agricultural Lands 
4. Air Quality
The Salt Lake County Resource Management 
Plan (Salt Lake County, 2017) addressed 
a range of topics relevant for Emigration 
Canyon, including Air quality; Cultural, 
Historical, Geological and Paleontologist 
Resources; Floodplains and river terraces; 
Forest management; Noxious and invasive 
species; Recreation and tourism; Riparian 
areas; Threatened, Endangered, and Sensitive 
Species; Visual Resources; Water Quality 
and Hydrology; Water Rights; Wetlands; and 
Wildlife.  
Wasatch Canyons General Plan
The recently adopted Wasatch Canyons 
General Plan does not include Emigration 
Canyon within its planning boundaries, but 
because it is associated with a neighboring 
area with similar canyon characteristics, 
some of the goals and strategies are likely to 
resonate with Emigration Canyon residents. 
In particular, the vision and guiding principles 
set out for the environment in the Wasatch 
Canyons General Plan closely align with the 
vision and goals set out in this chapter (Salt 
Lake County Regional Development, 2020): 
VISION: 
Serve as stewards to support healthy 
forests, connected ecosystems, habitats, and 
waterways for current and future generations. 
Promote programs that improve watersheds, 
air quality, vegetation, wildlife ecosystems, 
and scenic quality. 
GUIDING PRINCIPLES: 
1. System: Protect and steward open lands 
and natural resources (air, water, wildlife, 
fisheries, climate, trail systems, wetlands, 
dark skies, soundscape, soils, open space, 
and native vegetation). 
2. Open Space: Promote the acquisition 
of natural and undeveloped lands for 
conservation. 
3. Water: Protect, maintain, and improve 
watershed health, water supply, and water 
quality. 
4. Air: Protect and improve air quality for 
protection of public health, environmental 
health, and scenic visibility. 
5. Native Species: Maintain healthy 
populations of native species and support 
early detection and rapid response to 
eliminate invasive species and noxious 
weeds. 
6. Wildlife: Preserve sensitive habitats and 
migration areas for wildlife. 
7. Property: Respect approved private 
property uses and promote their stewardship 
of the environment. 
 Page. 98         
     
Page. 99      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
8. Wildfire: Support wildfire safety and 
defensible space. 
9. Parking: Ensure that parking 
management does not degrade watershed 
health or water quality.
5.1.4 Community Input
Details on the participatory approach used to 
engage members of the Emigration Canyon 
community in the development of this General 
Plan are included in section 1.4. As part of the 
community input, a Strengths, Weaknesses, 
Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis 
(Figure 1.5) and an Achieve, Preserve, Avoid, 
and Eliminate (APAE) analysis (Figure 1.6) 
was conducted by the GPSC. A summary of key 
results relevant to this Environment element 
are included in the two subsections that follow. 
Key results from the Transportation and 
Land Use Survey relevant to environmental 
planning are described in the third subsection. 
SWOT Analysis (Environment)
The majority of the characteristics included 
in the original SWOT analysis conducted 
by the GPSC (Figure 1.5) are relevant to 
the development of goals and objectives 
for the Environment element of the General 
Plan. This is not surprising considering the 
high value placed by the community on the 
natural environment of the Canyon. The focus 
of the strengths and opportunities sections 
of the analysis was on enjoying, protecting 
and enhancing the natural environment, 
while concerns regarding environmental 
disturbances and pollution feature 
prominently in the weaknesses and threats 
sections.   
APAE Analysis (Environment)
The majority of the characteristics included 
in the original APAE conducted by the GPSC 
(Figure 1.6) are relevant to the development 
of actions in the Environment element of 
the General Plan. An overarching focus 
on the preservation and protection of the 
environment from sources of pollution and 
overdevelopment, as well as hazards such as 
fires and invasive species, is clearly articulated 
throughout all sections of the analysis.  
Transportation and Land Use Survey
Figure 1.7 demonstrates that many of the 
top environmental concerns for Emigration 
Canyon identified by the GPSC in the SWOT and 
APAE exercises were also largely reflected by 
the Emigration Canyon community members 
who participated in the Transportation and 
Land Use survey, and many of these concerns 
have environmental components. Clean air 
received a 99 percent response rate in terms 
of being considered either “very important” or 
“important” by Emigration Canyon residents 
who responded to the survey, while parks and 
open spaces and sustainability and energy 
efficiency also garnered more than 95 percent 
of support from survey respondents. A related 
category, limiting growth and development, 
was supported by 94 percent of respondents. 
These analysis inform the goals, objectives, 
and actions that are included in the work 
program at the end of the chapter.   
5.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS
5.2.1 Overview
Emigration Canyon is located within the 
Semiarid Foothills ecoregion (US Geological 
Survey, 2000). This area is characterized by a 
dry, four season climate and semiarid rolling 
mountains. Some details regarding specific 
aspects of the environmental conditions 
of Emigration Canyon are included in the 
sections that follow.
Climate and Air Quality
Emigration Canyon’s climate, like Salt Lake 
County and the rest of the southwestern 
United States, is very dry. Emigration Canyon 
has all four seasons, with moderately hot 
summers and cold winters. July is typically 
the hottest time of the year, with an average 
high of around 90 degrees; the average low in 
January is around 22 degrees. The average 
annual precipitation is approximately 23 
inches (Best Places, 2020).
The principal winter precipitation in 
Emigration Canyon falls as snow. On the 
average, a foot or more of snow can be 
found on the mountain slopes by the middle 
of November and this snow cover usually 
remains until the middle of May. Only 10 days 
per month record 0.10 inches of precipitation 
or more. However, 24-hour snowfalls of two 
feet or more are common and have been 
observed during most of the winter and 
spring months. Snowfalls at locations along 
the Wasatch Front Range have reported the 
heaviest accumulations by observing stations 
in the state.
Three distinct climatic zones are recognized in 
Emigration Canyon. These zones have been 
classified by the USDA Soil Conservation 
Service based on differences in the average 
annual temperature, amount of moisture 
received, and the length of the growing season. 
The climatic zones include: 1) Upland Climatic 
Zone, 2) Mountain Climatic Zone, and 3) High 
Mountain Climatic Zone (see Ramsey & West, 
2009, pg. 53 for details).
Climate change is predicted to affect Utah by 
continuing to increase average temperatures 
across the state, causing more frequent 
and severe heat waves and drought (US 
Environmental Protection Agency, 2016). The 
local effects of climate change in Emigration 
Canyon are therefore likely to mean reductions 
in the amount of surface water in the creeks. 
The recharge rates of aquifers may also be 
reduced, thus influencing the availability of 
drinking water. The risk of wildfires is also 
likely to increase in Emigration Canyon due 
to climate change. Details on these risks 
and hazards, and their management at the 
local level, are included in Chapter 6, which 
addresses Resilience and Infrastructure.
Utah’s topography and climate contribute 
to episodic air pollution during the winter 
and summer months. Seasonal temperature 
inversions trap emissions that form 
Fall Color. Photo Courtesy of Maridene Alexander.
 Page. 100         
     
Page. 101      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
particulate matter and ozone. These harmful 
pollutants can rise to unhealthy levels, posing 
public health risks, economic consequences 
and decreased quality of life (Kem C. 
Gardner Policy Institute, 2020). Air quality is 
a significant challenge across Utah, but it is 
especially concerning in the high mountain 
valleys along the Wasatch Front, such as 
Emigration Canyon.
T opography and Vegetation Zones
Elevations in Emigration Canyon range 
from about 5,100 feet near the mouth of the 
canyon to just over 8,900 feet at the summit 
of Lookout Peak along the northern boundary 
of the Municipality. Much of the Canyon is 
dominated by lands where slopes exceed 30 
percent. 
Emigration Canyon has varied topography 
and a range of vegetation zones which 
correlate to slope, elevation and soil types 
(see Appendix K for details). The foothill 
communities located at the lower part of the 
Canyon are dominantly scrub oak of various 
varieties. Scrub oak is the most extensive 
plant community in the canyon environment. 
It begins in the lower foothills at about 5,000 
feet and covers most of the areas up to about 
7,500 feet. Streamside communities are 
dominated by maple, chokecherry, birch, alder, 
and cottonwood. Many varieties of deciduous 
shrubs are also found in this community. 
Rising in elevation, plant communities are 
dominated by aspen, fir, and spruce. At higher 
elevations, the most abundant trees are the 
Douglas Fir, Englemann Spruce and Alpine 
Fir. Above the timberline, at high elevation, 
a variety of shrubs dominate the vegetation 
pattern. No lands in the area are capable/
available for commercial timber harvest.
Invasive plant species are a concern for the 
varied habitats of Emigration Canyon, as they 
can disrupt the finely tuned ecosystems of an 
area, reducing the ability of system to resist 
and/or recover from wildfires, increasing the 
erosion of soils, and decreasing native forage 
for wildlife (US Forest Service, n.d.-a). Plants 
of great concern throughout the Wasatch 
Front’s canyons are dalmatian toadflax, 
garlic mustard, yellow star thistle, myrtle 
spurge, hounds tongue, a few non-native 
thistles, and Dyer’s woad (Salt Lake County 
Regional Development, 2020). These plants 
can take root in disturbed areas such as 
roads, trails, campgrounds and construction 
sites, and then spread through human vectors 
(pathways) such as people, dogs, bicycles, and 
cars (ibid).
Other invasive species are also a concern 
when it comes to maintaining or restoring 
healthy ecosystems in Emigration Canyon. 
Fall Leaf. Photo Courtesy of Katie Cook Oborn.
Insect species can be particularly damaging 
to forest vegetation and result in a range of 
adverse effects that can ripple out to influence 
the entire ecological system. For example, the 
Balsam Woolly Adelgid (BWA), a tiny sucking 
insect that was introduced to North America 
from Europe, has recently been identified 
in the Wasatch Mountains and can cause 
widespread mortality of subalpine fir trees 
(Salt Lake County Regional Development, 
2020). This is a concern because there are 
few other tree species that can survive in this 
vegetation zone; if subalpine fir trees are lost 
in large numbers, severe ecological damage 
could result from increased erosion, reduced 
watershed health, loss of wildlife and their 
habitat, and reduced recreational values 
(Alston et al., 2018). Dead and dying fir trees 
can also increase the risk of severe wildfires.  
Geology
Emigration Canyon is located along the 
western flank of the central Wasatch 
Mountain Range within the Middle Rocky 
Mountain physiographic province; folded 
mountains (anticlinal folds), are the dominant 
type of mountain in this province (US National 
Park Service, n.d.). The bedrock underlying 
the Municipality has been folded into a 
northeast-southwest trending syncline (or 
a broad U-shape) (Utah Geological Survey, 
n.d.). Sedimentary rocks of the Triassic, 
Jurassic, and Cretaceous ages line the roads 
of Emigration Canyon, with Jurassic Twin 
Creek Limestone, which includes oolitic, 
sandy, silty, fossiliferous, massive, and/or 
shaley (some intensely shattered) limestone 
being characteristic of the area (ibid). Bedrock 
units found across the Municipality have a 
range of physical properties and some can 
pose severe development constraints because 
of instability, moisture sensitivity, shrink/swell 
potential, or poor percolation characteristics.
Watershed
The Emigration Creek Watershed, located in 
the northeast corner of Salt Lake County in 
Northern Utah, drains a total of 24.1 square 
miles. It is divided into two sub watersheds 
based on differences in land cover, land 
use, elevation and topography (Figure 5.1) 
(Hubbard-Rice, 2015).
The Upper Emigration Creek Sub-watershed 
has a drainage area of 18.2 square miles and 
Figure 5.1:  Emigration Creek Subwatersheds (Hubbard-Rice, 2015, pg. 3).
 Page. 102         
     
Page. 103      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
contains a groundwater recharge zone. The 
Lower Emigration Creek Sub-watershed has 
a drainage area of 5.9 square miles comprised 
of the bench area below the canyon outlet. 
This sub-watershed is located just outside 
of the Municipal boundaries of Emigration 
Canyon. 
Annual stream flow volumes for Emigration 
Creek show a slight declining trend since 
1970 (BIO-WEST , Inc., 2010, fig. 3.9). If this 
trend continues and/or accelerates due to the 
influences of climate change, it could have 
adverse effects on wildlife, especially fish.
The relationship between stream flow and 
groundwater volumes is not straightforward, 
but groundwater can have a big impact on 
stream flow (Utah State University Extension, 
n.d.). Some Emigration Canyon residents, 
especially those who access drinking water 
from private wells, are concerned about 
how declining surface water volumes and 
lengthening drought season trends might 
influence the water quality and quantity in 
the Canyon (O’Donoghue, 2019). The most 
recent publicly available study of Emigration 
Canyon’s groundwater comes from a 1966 
Master’s thesis (Barnett, 1966). Based 
primarily on projected groundwater capacity, 
build limits have long been considered for 
Emigration Canyon (Hansen, 2018). Concerns 
have also been raised in relation to the quality 
of the Canyon’s groundwater, but there is little 
recent, publicly available evidence to point 
to on this topic. A call for a comprehensive 
Figure 5.2:  Average E. coli data for various monitoring locations along Emigration Creek  (Salt Lake County Watershed Planning & Restoration, 2015, Figure 3-34).
watershed study was included in the 1999 
General Plan to address this concern (Salt 
Lake County Planning and Development 
Services, 1999), but little action has been 
taken to progress this item until recently. In 
2020 the Emigration Canyon Sustainability 
Alliance, a grassroots environmental 
organization, successfully applied for an EPA 
grant to conduct a watershed study that is 
expected to be completed by December 2021.
Upper Emigration Creek was first listed 
as impaired waters for pathogens (high 
fecal coliform levels) in 2002. In 2006, Utah 
switched to Escherichia coli (E. coli) as the 
indicator species for pathogens as it provides 
a better indicator of human health threat. In 
July 2012, the US Environmental Protection 
Agency approved the Total Maximum Daily 
Load (TMDL) document for Escherichia coli (E. 
coli) in the Upper Emigration Creek Watershed 
(Utah Department of Environmental Quality, 
2011). The document addressed water quality 
impairments within the Upper Emigration 
Creek Sub-Basin and established allowable 
loading of E. coli. 
The TMDL document defined the critical 
season as the months of July, August and 
September (Figure 5.2) and required a load 
reduction of 41% collectively. The observed 
loading is higher during the summer months 
due to a combination of several factors 
including warmer water temperatures and 
increased activity of humans, domestic 
animals and wildlife. 
The TMDL (2011, pg 1) document concludes 
that non-point sources of pollution are the 
primary causes of pollution in the Upper 
Emigration Creek watershed; studies suggest 
that the origin of non-point pollution in 
Emigration Creek may include “residential 
waste disposal, fecal contamination from 
dogs and wildlife, stormwater runoff, 
hydrologic modifications, and groundwater 
seepage from old holding vaults and septic 
tank leach fields.”
Although many improvements have been 
implemented in the Upper Sub-Basin, 
exceedances of water quality standards still 
occur on a regular basis, including Upper 
Emigration Creek not meeting water quality 
standards for recreational uses that involve 
physical contact with the water (Hubbard-
Rice, 2015). Upper Emigration Creek is the 
only stream segment with ongoing TMDL 
studies and implementation planning in Salt 
Lake County (Salt Lake County Watershed 
Planning & Restoration, 2015). The focus of the 
implementation is the presence and condition 
of septic tanks serving residents and business 
in the watershed. As part of this effort, the EID, 
which provides water to the majority of the 
residents of Emigration Canyon and plays a 
role in waste management as well, has some 
responsibility to monitor regional collection 
and treatment of wastewater issues. 
Jurisdictional wetlands have been delineated 
along Emigration Creek and there may 
be isolated wetland areas along tributary 
drainages (Salt Lake County Planning 
and Development Services, 1999). These 
wetlands, though small in size, provide 
sanctuary for a diverse range of plants and 
wildlife, and contribute to the maintenance of 
the ecological balance of the area, including 
supporting hydrologic recharge and water 
quality improvements. Other values such 
as recreation are also supported by these 
areas, which are protected under federal laws 
administered by the EPA and US Army Corps 
of Engineers. 
Wildlife
Wildlife is abundant in Emigration Canyon 
and the surrounding areas of the Wasatch 
Range. The wide variety of microclimates and 
habitats resulting from the range of elevation 
changes and slope aspects associated with the 
Canyon support a diverse range of mammal 
and bird species. There are no recent studies 
of Emigration Canyon’s wildlife, although 
the 1999 General Plan lists a wide range of 
species known to occupy the Canyon and 
demarcates some of their and vital habitats 
(Salt Lake County Planning and Development 
Services, 1999; Appendix L). Although there is 
a lack of current data on Emigration Canyon, 
neighboring Red Butte Canyon is designated 
as a Research Natural Area administered by 
USFS and it maintains good lists of wildlife 
known to occur in the area. Red Butte Canyon 
has recorded 39 species of mammals (Red 
Butte Canyon Research Natural Area, n.d.-b) 
and 106 species of birds (Red Butte Canyon 
Research Natural Area, n.d.-a). 
Because of the unique history of Red Butte 
Canyon, which has largely been protected 
from human development and grazing since 
1862, it is unlikely that all of these species 
 Page. 104         
     
Page. 105      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
can be found in Emigration Canyon today. 
However, the close proximity and similar 
natural environments suggest that a great 
deal of overlap is possible.    
Today the range of species known to inhabit 
or visit Emigration Canyon includes (but is not 
limited to): 
• Mule deer, coyote, cottontails, rough-
legged hawks, red-tailed hawks, 
thrashers, and scrub jays in the dry 
foothills of the Canyon. 
• Moose, elk, deer, black bear, badger, 
bobcat, mountain lion, porcupine, ermine, 
squirrels, wild turkey, owls, stellar jays, 
and woodpeckers in the Canyon’s forests 
and higher elevations. 
• Emigration Creek once harbored 
rainbow, brook, brown and Bonneville 
cutthroat trout, but all of these species 
may not be present today given the 
current degraded state of the Creek. 
Beaver also once occupied the Canyon’s 
creeks in substantial numbers and there 
is some interest in reintroducing them to 
the Canyon.  
Visual Amenities
The visual resources of Emigration Canyon 
combine to create amenities that attract both 
residents and visitors year-round. Emigration 
Canyon has a wealth of visual amenities – 
views of unfettered natural landscapes, and 
clear, dark skies at night. In 2013, the area 
was listed among the top ten best stargazing 
spots in Utah (McFarland, 2013), and the area 
found its way onto a top 21 list again in 2018 
(Stimac, 2018).
Cultural Resources
Emigration Canyon is associated with several 
key components of Utah’s human history. 
The area was and is important for Native 
Americans living in the area, and some 
artifacts from the Fremont people have been 
found in the Canyon (Carlstrom & Furse, 
2019). The area is also well known for the 
role that it played in the settlement of the Salt 
Lake Valley by early Mormon pioneers. The 
Last Campsite of Brigham Y oung’s group 
(July 23, 1847) before entering the Salt Lake 
Valley was demarcated by the Daughters of 
the Pioneers in 1936 (Figure 5.3). More recent 
mining and farming activities in the Canyon 
add layers to the cultural landscape of the 
area. These resources attract visitors to the 
area and contribute to the complex identities 
of Canyon residents.
Figure 5.3:  Key historical locations in Emigration Canyon (Epperson, 2019).  
5.3 INTERGENERATIONAL PLANNING
Emigration Canyon Wild Turkeys. Photo Courtesy of Catherine Harris.
An ecosystem-based approach to planning 
requires consideration of a range of spatial 
and temporal scales if it is to ensure the 
protection, maintenance, and restoration 
of ecological health and biodiversity. This 
approach does not necessarily align with a 
standard general planning process. These 
longer timescales and broader spatial scales 
must be considered, however, due to the scale 
and scope of the complex systems in play. 
Intergenerational planning that encompasses 
multiple life cycles of both humans and 
other Canyon residents, is therefore needed 
when developing an effective environmental 
element for a general plan. 
5.3.1 Visions for the Future
Future Air Quality Vision
Canyon residents and visitors thrive on being 
outdoors, enjoying the fresh Canyon air and 
the many activities that access to Emigration 
Canyon’s many open spaces provides. 
Through a commitment to supporting local 
activities, economies, and innovations, 
individuals reduce their non-point source 
emissions. As a result, air quality improvement 
trends are evident across the Salt Lake Valley.     
Given the importance of water resources in 
this area, both to Canyon residents, and to Salt 
Lake City beyond, watershed maintenance, 
protection and enhancement is a primary 
consideration in all land management 
decisions. Watersheds and streams provide 
high quality water supplies to the Salt Lake 
Valley. Various uses and developments 
(restroom facilities, picnic areas, trailheads 
and trails) are designed to prevent or fully 
 Page. 106         
     
Page. 107      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
mitigate impacts, resulting in a healthy, high 
functioning condition in the Emigration Creek 
watershed. Impacts from historic activities 
are mitigated to the greatest extent that is 
economically feasible.
In responding to increasing recreation 
demands, water quality, riparian conditions, 
and wildlife habitat needs are considered 
first. Provisions are made for a wide range 
of recreation uses including access and 
sanitation facilities that prevent deterioration 
of watershed conditions. Major trailheads and 
restrooms are provided and maintained in 
cooperation with partners such as Salt Lake 
City Department of Public Works, the USFS, 
and the local municipal government. Users are 
aware of the need to restrict in-water activities 
because of water quality, and compliance 
with watershed ordinances is excellent. 
Public education about watershed protection 
and appropriate behavior in watersheds is 
consistently accomplished in cooperation 
and partnerships with a range of agencies. 
Residents are aware of the need for, and 
implement, water conservations strategies. A 
plan for monitoring the groundwater system 
is implemented to prevent overuse of finite 
water resources. Water quality is important 
to users as well as managers, and annual 
monitoring indicates that conditions are 
steadily improving. 
Future Landscape Vision
A coordinated approach, including the 
allocation of funding, is taken across multiple 
partnering agencies to protect and restore the 
biodiversity of Emigration Canyon. Wildlife 
needs are identified and then considered as a 
component of all land use decisions. Several 
habitat types and prime habitat areas and 
corridors needed to support biodiversity 
are protected, and areas for safe wildlife 
observation are developed. As a result, 
vegetation cover types form a mosaic of plant 
communities representing a diverse mix of 
ages, sizes, and species. Noxious weeds and 
invasive species are reduced throughout the 
Canyon. Wildlife is abundant, and species 
once lost to the area return or are reintroduced. 
Protective measures and educational 
programs provide for the maintenance of 
species at risk and contribute to their recovery, 
while proactive efforts educate and inform 
residents and visitors of the fundamental 
importance of biodiversity. 
The scenery of the area, including the 
night skies, continues to be a valuable and 
pleasurable natural backdrop for the urban 
area. Views up and within the canyon of 
natural and developed areas are carefully 
managed to sustain scenic resources. Peace, 
quiet, and tranquility are protected as part 
of residents’ privacy, for the benefit of wildlife, 
and to maintain the character of the Canyon.
Mama and baby Black Bear, photo by Gen Dee  (licensed under CC by-ND 2.0).
Future Interrelationships Vision
A comprehensive evaluation of the existing 
open space and trail system (including user 
created routes) is conducted, and a strategy 
developed to meet increasing demands 
while maintaining watershed conditions 
and protecting the privacy rights of Canyon 
residents. Protection of the Canyon ecosystems 
is a primary factor in the management of 
roads, trails, and access. Parking options are 
improved to ensure safety, protect watersheds 
or to facilitate ride sharing/mass transit. 
Ride sharing/mass transit is commonly used 
during peak times. Partnerships are forged to 
explore options for reducing private vehicular 
use within the Canyon.
Visitors to this area take advantage of 
environmental education and appreciation 
programs that enhance their outdoor 
recreation experiences. People with diverse 
needs and values function in an atmosphere 
of cooperation and constructive resolution 
of differences. Inventory efforts document 
Indigenous and early European settlement 
of the area. Research and interpretive efforts 
educate residents and visitors about the 
culture and history of the area. 
The Emigration Canyon environment 
enhances the quality of life of its residents, 
human and otherwise, while also improving 
the quality of life for many members of the 
large urban population of the  Salt Lake Valley 
by providing access to stable watersheds and 
natural landscapes nearby.
5.3.2 Environment Work 
Program Goals 
The following Environment Work Program 
Goals were developed with guidance from 
the GPSC, based on community input, and 
with consideration for the data, opportunities 
and challenges outlined in this and previous 
chapters. The work program can be used 
to guide the implementation of the General 
Plan and make progress on Emigration 
Canyon’s environment  goals. The work 
program outlines goals, objectives, and 
actions, with the responsible parties, timeline 
for implementation, approximate cost, metric 
for success, and relevant resources also 
delineated. However, the Emigration Canyon 
Metro Township Council is the governing 
body of the Municipality and will determine 
how best to achieve the goals, objectives, 
and actions that are included in the work 
plan, including how best to implement 
recommendations such as the formation 
of working groups. Details are included to 
support implementation but are not definitive. 
Goal 5.1: Protect and enhance 
clean, clear air quality.   
• Objective 5.1.1:  Improve air quality in 
and around Emigration Canyon.
Goal 5.2: Preserve and enhance 
the health of the watershed to 
ensure that it has adequate 
quality and capacity to fulfill the 
needs of all those who depend 
upon it for life and well-being, 
both human and non-human. 
• Objective 5.2.1:  Improve water quality 
and maintain or improve water quantity 
in the Upper Emigration Creek sub-
watershed. 
Goal 5.3: Preserve and enhance 
natural areas and ensure that 
landscapes are functional and 
diverse. 
• Objective 5.3.1: Increase open space 
preservation and access in Emigration 
Canyon. 
• Objective 5.3.2: Increase coordination 
of biodiversity and invasive species 
management in Emigration Canyon.
• Objective 5.3.3: Preserve and enhance 
views of the night sky and protections for 
nocturnal wildlife.
Goal 5.4: Foster healthy, 
balanced relationships between 
humans and nature.    
• Objective 1: Increase identification 
of cultural, historical, geological, 
archaeological and paleontologist  
resources.
• Objective 2: Increase education and 
outreach that encourages stewardship, 
sustainability, and other balanced 
interactions with the environment.
 Page. 108         
     
Page. 109      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
CHAPTER 6: 
RESILIENCE & 
INFRASTRUCTURE
Booths at the Firewise Fair, photo courtesy of Lisa Tippetts.
“When  crisis comes we begin to see that  community is the true and irreplaceable 
infrastructure. ”
-Unknown 
CHAPTER 6: RESILIENCE & INFRASTRUCTURE 108
6.1 INTRODUCTION 110
6.1.1 Planning FOr Change 111
6.1.2 relatiOnshiPs, rOles, and resPOnsibilities 111
6.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS 114
6.2.1 sOCial COhesiOn 114
6.2.2 haZards and risks 117
6.2.3 inFrastruCture 120
6.3  PLANNING FOR FUTURE RESILIENCE 126
6.3.1 key Challenges 126
6.3.2 key OPPOrtunities 127
6.3.3 resilienCe and inFrastruCture wOrk PrOgraM gOals 128
 Page. 110         
     
Page. 111      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
6.1 INTRODUCTION
Resilience is the ability for complex systems 
to change, adapt, and transform, in positive 
ways and within a reasonable timeframe, 
following hardships and disasters (adapted 
from Davoudi, 2012). In planning:
•   Systems, in this context, are 
interconnected networks that include 
both social and ecological elements. The 
term is used to describe the relationships 
and interactions among and between 
people, wildlife, and the environment.    
•  Why do we say change, adapt, and 
transform? These three verbs convey 
that true resilience is when we learn from 
and improve upon past experiences, 
rather than returning to a “normal” that 
may not have benefited everyone in the 
community equitably. 
•   Hardships and disasters comprise a 
variety of short and long term, sudden or 
gradual, expected or unexpected, small 
or large, experiences: natural disaster, 
discrimination, pandemic, economic 
recession, digital revolution, autonomous 
vehicles, climate change, cyclical poverty, 
and violence, for example.
Infrastructure is the set of fundamental 
structures and facilities serving a society and 
enabling its operation. Infrastructure often 
calls to mind brick and mortar structures 
such as bridges, telephone poles, and 
stormwater drains. However, there is also 
digital infrastructure—services necessary 
to a society’s information technology and 
communication capabilities—including 
internet access and reliability. There is 
social infrastructure too; the assets that act 
as a conduit to bring people together and 
strengthen relationships. Social infrastructure 
includes schools, community groups and 
events, outdoor markets, coffee shops, 
libraries, parks, religious institutions, and 
other physical assets that create a culture of 
neighborliness, acceptance, and connection 
(Landau, 2019). 
Resilience planning recognizes that the mere 
presence of infrastructure does not ensure 
the social connectedness and cohesion that 
a community must rely on in order to adapt 
or respond to hardships and changes. The 
strength of social networks and associated 
levels of trust and connectedness within a 
community are an invisible but essential 
component of community resilience (Aldrich 
and Meyer 2015). 
Infrastructure and resilience are tightly 
related. Well-maintained, high functioning 
infrastructure enables more resilient 
communities. Such communities have brick 
and mortar, digital, and social structures 
that support strong networks and build trust 
among community members, thus improving 
their quality of life.
Equity in Planning for 
Resilience and Infrastructure
The equity of a plan, policy, or practice (how 
fair and just it is for all people), is a key factor 
to consider when analyzing a community’s 
resilience and infrastructure. Resilient 
communities have social, brick and mortar, 
and digital infrastructure that is accessible 
to all, no matter a person’s age, race, ethnicity, 
gender, or other characteristics. If some people 
in a community are not able to access these 
kinds of services, then that community as a 
whole may struggle to respond to or recover 
from hardships and disasters.  
When hardships occur or disasters strike, 
certain individuals or groups of people are 
often affected more than others. In the past, 
planning efforts have often neglected to 
consider these groups in advance of a crisis, 
and recovery efforts have exacerbated 
inequities. Engaging individuals and groups 
who are likely to be disproportionately 
affected by hazards or hardships in resilience 
planning in advance of a crisis can help to 
support the establishment of more equitable 
plans, policies, and practices.
6.1.1 Planning for Change
Communities that plan are generally more 
resilient to change. The planning process 
provides a space for community members to 
develop a collective understanding of their 
needs and desires and to discuss difficult, 
controversial, or complex topics. The planning 
process also provides an opportunity to 
analyze qualitative and quantitative data 
and consider possible ways forward based 
on these findings. Through this process, 
community members can develop a realistic 
understanding of current conditions, 
establish a collective vision for where they 
hope to be in the future, and suggest ways 
to work collectively towards achieving those 
aspirations. This process can enable a  
community to maintain its strengths, realize 
its opportunities, plan for challenges, and 
mitigate threats – in essence, to develop its 
resilience. 
This General Plan takes a comprehensive 
and participatory approach to resilience 
and infrastructure planning (e.g. after Sharifi  
& Y amagata, 2018). For details on how 
community input has guided the content of 
this element, see section 1.4. The Resilience 
and Infrastructure Chapter ties together the 
assets mentioned in the previous chapters 
(e.g. land use, transportation) and applies a 
resilience framework to them. This means 
asking questions such as: resilience of what, 
to what, and for whom? (Meerow & Newell, 
2016). In this way, this chapter aims to 
strengthen and deepen the work undertaken 
in previous chapters, but not to replicate these 
topics altogether.
Bringing It All T ogether
This General Plan recognizes, draws from, 
and builds upon relevant strategy documents, 
such as the 2019 Salt Lake County Multi-
Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan (Salt 
Lake County Emergency Management, 
2019). The Hazard Mitigation Plan assesses 
Emigration Canyon’s legal, fiscal, and 
technical capabilities. It also identifies 
Emigration Canyon’s specific hazard risks 
and proposes associated risk mitigation 
strategies. Additional consideration is given 
to topics drawn from the literature such 
as climate change, air quality, and social 
cohesion. The work programs from chapters 
2-5 each contribute to infrastructure and 
resilience planning, but the work program 
for this chapter includes goals, objectives, 
and actions specific to the topic, offering 
an implementable program that supports 
improving infrastructure and resilience in 
Emigration Canyon. 
6.1.2 Relationships, Roles, and 
Responsibilities
Connectivity across a range of scales 
strengthens the resilience of a community 
and its ability to prepare for or respond to a 
major shock or change. Many organizations, 
agencies, entities and individuals therefore 
have roles and responsibilities that support 
resilience planning and response efforts in 
Emigration Canyon. Some of the key roles and 
responsibilities are outlined in the subsections 
that follow.
Figure 6.1: The General Plan Steering Committee demonstrating their resilience by moving to online 
meetings when the COVID-19 pandemic made it too risky to continue in-person meetings.
 Page. 112         
     
Page. 113      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Federal Agencies
The Federal Emergency Management 
Agency (FEMA) coordinates the federal 
government’s role in preparing for, preventing, 
mitigating the effects of, responding to, and 
recovering, from all domestic disasters. The 
Department of Defense coordinates federal 
military forces responding to and recovering 
from all domestic disasters. The National 
Weather Service, an arm of the National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
(NOAA) issues severe weather watches and 
warnings. The Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA) is responsible for setting and 
maintaining environmental and associated 
health standards.  
State of Utah
Utah Division of Emergency Management 
is responsible for coordinating the State of 
Utah’s response to disasters and provides 
support to local emergency management 
efforts as needed. The Utah National 
Guard also supports statewide emergency 
management efforts. The Utah Department 
of Environmental Quality - Division of 
Drinking Water is responsible for regulating 
and protecting public drinking water systems 
throughout the state.
Salt Lake County
Salt Lake County (SLCo) conducted an 
all-hazards assessment of potential 
vulnerabilities associated with all 
jurisdictions within its boundaries (Salt Lake 
County Emergency Management, 2019). 
This assessment can assist communities 
within SLCo, including Emigration Canyon, 
to prioritize and direct hazard preparedness 
and planning efforts. The SLCo Emergency 
Management’s Coordination Center located 
at 3380 South 900 West, Salt Lake City, Utah, 
will serve the affected communities served 
by the MSD as the command center for all 
disaster response operations, if requested 
by the Chief Elected Executive(s), or their 
designee(s) for Emigration Canyon. The 
Valley Emergency Communications Center 
operates a 24 hour/7 day a week 911 police, 
fire, and emergency medical services dispatch 
center that serves Emigration Canyon.    
In some circumstances, such as the COVID-19 
pandemic, SLCo administers federal relief 
funding (e.g. CARES Act funds) to communities 
within the County. 
Salt Lake City
Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities 
(SLCDPU) holds and maintains surface and 
groundwater rights in the Emigration Creek 
watershed for current and future water supply 
purposes. Title 17 Chapter 17.04 of the 
Salt Lake City Code defines a portion of the 
watershed as protected. This area is defined 
in the code as “ All of the Emigration Canyon 
watershed area that contributes water to 
Emigration Creek from Burr Fork and Killyon 
Canyon above a point at the intersection of 
state Highways 65 and 172.” SLCDPU are 
currently updating a long-range watershed 
management plan for the area, which should 
be completed sometime in 2021.
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services 
District
The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services 
District (MSD) is the interlocal government 
agency that provides current and long range 
planning, as well as building inspection and 
permitting, code enforcement, and engineering 
services to member communities. These 
services are crucial to preparing communities 
for infrastructure challenges, natural hazards, 
and other disasters. The MSD has supported 
Emigration Canyon to develop an Emergency 
Operations Plan (Emigration Canyon 
Metro Township, 2019) which establishes a 
framework to integrate and coordinate the 
emergency response and recovery actions 
across all levels of government, volunteer 
organizations, and the private sector within 
its jurisdiction.
Emigration Canyon Metro T ownship 
Council
The five elected members of the Emigration 
Canyon Metro Township Council (EC 
Metro) have an intimate knowledge of the 
community needed for robust decision 
making, especially in order to prepare for or 
respond to a crisis. The ability of the EC Metro 
to connect with local residents as well as other 
regional leadership is crucial to information 
sharing and leveraging resources. Trust 
in the decisions made by members of the 
Council is needed to bolster social cohesion in 
Emigration Canyon.
Emigration Canyon Metro T ownship 
Planning Commission
The five appointed members of the 
Planning Commission (PC) are key to the 
implementation of good planning principles 
within the Canyon, including resilience and 
infrastructure planning. Their intimate 
knowledge of the community combined with 
their professional advice supports robust 
decision making by the Council, which is 
needed to prepare for or respond to a crisis.
Emigration Canyon Community 
Council
The Community Council facilitates 
information sharing across the Emigration 
Canyon Community via a range of media 
and also sponsors community events that 
enhance social connectedness and cohesion. 
Members of the Community Council can and 
do serve as trusted and connected  community 
leaders who provide essential information to 
residents in a disaster. 
Emigration Canyon Improvement 
District
The Emigration Canyon Improvement 
District (EID) is a local special service district 
created under Utah Law.  As such it is an 
independent governmental entity governed 
by a Board of Trustees. The EID is the culinary 
water provider for portions of Emigration 
Canyon and therefore establishes rules and 
regulations that govern this service including 
setting rates and fees. The EID also has the 
power to establish a property tax to help fund 
the services it provides. In recent years EID 
have installed fire hydrants in the canyon, 
which provide fire protection to most, but not 
all of Emigration Canyon residents. EID also 
supports water quality education and assists 
with septic system installation in some cases. 
The EID’s role in planning and zoning is 
limited. The EID does not have any power to 
adopt land use control ordinances or approve 
or deny any land use applications, but EID 
input on the adoption and implementation 
of general plans is needed to assist with 
long term planning regarding culinary water 
provision in the Canyon. The Municipality’s 
plans will affect future demands on the EID 
for services and EID’s capacity will affect the 
Municipality’s ability to allow future growth. 
Unified Fire Authority
Station #119 is located mid-canyon 
on Emigration Canyon Road and can 
therefore provide quick response times to 
any incident that occurs in the canyon. The 
station also provides the only indoor public 
gathering space within the boundaries of the 
Municipality. The space is regularly utilized 
by the community for community meetings 
and events. Additionally, Emigration Canyon 
has a high wildfire threat level, making the 
education provided by local Firefighters 
regarding prevention and preparedness an 
essential component of resilience planning in 
the canyon.   
Unified Police Department
The Canyon Patrol Unit of the Unified 
Police Department (UPD), consisting of two 
Sergeants and 19 Officers, provide all aspects 
of law enforcement services within the 
canyon areas of Salt Lake County, including 
Emigration Canyon. Because no health care 
or hospital services are located in the canyon 
itself, UPD officers can provide the quick 
response needed to ensure the health and 
well-being of residents and visitors to the area.

 Page. 114         
     
Page. 115      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Resident with Smokey the Bear. Courtesy of Lisa Tippetts.
6.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS
6.2.1 Social Cohesion
The resilience of a community; its ability to 
change, adapt, and transform in positive ways 
and within a reasonable timeframe following 
hardships and disasters, is dependent 
upon social factors as much as physical 
ones (Fonseca et al., 2019). Many resilience 
initiatives around the world consider the level 
of social cohesion within a community to be a 
key characteristic needed to support resilience 
(Resilient Rotterdam, n.d.). Social cohesion 
is high when a society or community works 
to ensure the well-being of all its members, 
fights exclusion and marginalization, creates 
a sense of belonging, promotes trust, and 
offers its members the opportunity of upward 
social mobility (Organization for Economic 
Co-operation and Development, 2012).  
In Emigration Canyon, any initiatives that 
strengthen networks and build trust, or support 
community activities and social interactions  
(Aldrich and Meyer 2015), contribute to the 
social cohesion of the canyon community.   
Social Networks
Formal and informal social networks can 
facilitate the rapid spread of information and 
mobilize community members to take action 
in preparation for or response to an event 
such as a natural hazard. Resources such as 
medical supplies, emergency funds, tools or 
personnel can also be quickly mobilized by 
relying on the loose connections that exist 
between and across agencies, organizations, 
and interest groups (MacGillivray, 2018). 
Low levels of trust across and between these 
groups can hamper effectiveness and slow 
response times, therefore reducing social 
resilience (Straub et al., 2020).  
Emigration Canyon relies on a range of 
formal and informal methods of information 
dissemination and community mobilization. 
There is anecdotal evidence to suggest 
that these methods can reach many 
canyon residents, but speed, accuracy, and 
coordination across the range of methods 
could be improved. 
Discrepancies in access to communication 
can complicate the efficient functioning of 
both formal and informal social networks 
in Emigration Canyon. According to the 
Salt Lake County Health Department’s 
Community Health Data Dashboard 
(Healthy Salt Lake, 2020), which draws on 
US Census data from 2014-2018, Emigration 
Canyon residents have a high level of internet 
and computing device access, but not all 
households have access. Approximately 
87.5 percent of households have an internet 
subscription (similar to Salt Lake County with 
85.9 percent) and 96.8 percent of households 
have one or more types of computing devices 
(similar to Salt Lake County with 94.4 percent). 
Additionally, reliable high-speed access to 
the internet varies across the Canyon, and no 
one in the Canyon has access to fiber optics, 
considered to be the most reliable internet 
access to date (see Table X for details). 
An additional barrier to efficient 
communication that could be relevant for the 
area is ‘linguistic isolation’ – households that 
are linguistically isolated due to language 
barriers may have difficulty accessing services 
that are available to fluent English speakers. 
The Salt Lake County Health Department’s 
Community Health Data Dashboard (Healthy 
Salt Lake, 2020)  reports that Emigration 
Canyon has a 4.8 percent linguistic isolation 
level, which is slightly higher than that of Salt 
Lake County at large (3.4 percent).
Community Activities 
Participation in community activities such as 
parades, fairs, and block parties that include 
moderator-led discussions of topics of interest 
to the community (e.g. the environment or 
Residents serving breakfast at the Firewise Fair, photo courtesy of Lisa Tippetts.
• National Emergency Alert System (EAS) 
– National public warning system that 
requires radio and TV broadcasters, 
cable TV , wireless cable systems, satellite 
and wireless operators to provide the 
President with capability to address 
the American people within 10 minutes 
during a national emergency.
• CodeRED program – Opt-in telephone, 
email, text, and social media emergency 
warning system (e.g. evacuation notices, 
utility outages, fire, floods), available to 
Canyon residents and to visitors via the 
CodeRED app.    
• News/radio stations  
• Police (UPD) and Fire (UFA)   
• EC Metro website                                      
• ECCC website                                     
• EC Metro and ECCC email lists 
• Emigration Canyon Newsletter – Paper 
circulation twice annually to all residents, 
more frequent digital copies but only go 
to a subset of canyon residents. 
• Public EC Metro/ECCC meetings 
• Social media (e.g. Facebook, Twitter)  
• Neighborhood chats/apps (e.g. Nextdoor 
app)
• Ham/amateur radio (local group of 
approximately 15 users)
Formal and Informal Information Resources 
 Page. 116         
     
Page. 117      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
school choice), have been empirically proven 
to enhance social cohesion and trust among 
participating groups and individuals (Aldrich 
& Meyer, 2015). A list of some key community 
activities that support resilience are included 
in Table 6.1 below.   
The novel COVID-19 pandemic, which arrived 
in Utah in March 2020, has prevented large 
community gatherings throughout much of 
the writing of this plan. Many Emigration 
Canyon residents have adapted to the new 
normal and continued to participate in some 
community activities, such as EC Metro 
meetings, using online platforms during 
this time. Other ways that the community 
has adapted include increased use of social 
media to stay connected, neighborhood mask 
making events, and outdoor music events or 
gatherings that do not involve food or drink 
sharing. 
Other Social Factors
In order to prepare hazard mitigation 
efforts that consider the whole community, 
jurisdiction-specific social nuances must be 
understood, and key factors are highlighted in 
Table 6.2.
While there is a high percentage of residents 
over the age of 65 living in Emigration Canyon, 
only 5.2 percent of these residents reported 
living alone, compared to 24.2 percent in the 
same demographic who live alone across 
Salt Lake County. This statistic suggests that 
this demographic of Emigration Canyon 
residents is generally less socially isolated 
than residents of Salt Lake County.  
Emigration Canyon residents are also more 
likely than residents of Salt Lake County to 
own their own homes (81.7 percent versus 
63.1 percent), and generally have a higher 
level of educational attainment (68.9 percent 
of people 25+ have a Bachelor’s Degree or 
higher, compared to 34.5 percent in Salt 
Lake County). These factors suggest that 
Emigration Canyon residents have good 
access to a suite of resources that can help 
them to cope in a crisis. 
A range of health factors can also complicate 
access to social networks and reduce mobility. 
These are included in Table 6.3. 
T able 6.1: Key community programs or events that contribute to social cohesion and community 
resilience in Emigration Canyon.
6.2.2 Hazards and Risks
The geography and climate of Emigration 
Canyon renders the area more or less at 
risk for certain types of hazards and risks. 
Emigration Canyon is characterized as 
Intermountain Semi Desert (US Geological 
Survey, 2000). Emigration Canyon 
experiences all four seasons with moderately 
hot summers and cold winters. Emigration 
Canyon’s climate, like Salt Lake County and 
the rest of the southwestern states, is very 
dry, with an average annual precipitation of 
approximately 23 inches, though the Canyon 
receives more precipitation than Salt Lake 
Valley (Best Places, 2020).  
According to the Emigration Canyon Hazard 
Mitigation Plan (Emigration Canyon Metro 
Township, 2019), the top five hazard events, 
based on a probability factor times the sum 
of weighted impact factors, are: Wildfire, 
Flooding, Earthquake/Severe Winter 
Weather (tied for third place), Landslide and 
Slope Failure, and Severe Weather. A few 
additional hazards and risks that are likely to 
have a significant impact on the health and 
well-being of Emigration Canyon residents 
and visitors in the years to come, but operate 
across canyon boundaries, are also included 
below. These are Public Health Epidemic/
Pandemic, Air Quality, and Climate Change.   
The potential for a petroleum spill is also 
relevant to consider in future hazards 
management (due to the presence of an 
active pipeline through the Canyon), but this 
did not make the top five hazards in the 2019 
mitigation plan. Additional concerns for the 
Municipality, in the event that any hazard 
affects the canyon, are 1) the limited ingress 
and egress to and from Emigration Canyon 
and 2) the lack of access to reliable wireless 
and internet in event of an emergency.  These 
limitations pose major concerns as they 
relates to the multiple natural and manmade 
hazards that could affect the community.
Flooding
Stream flooding is highly likely and has 
the potential to cause roadway washouts. 
Emigration Creek and its tributaries are the 
principal drainages carrying runoff through 
Emigration Canyon. Most creeks have well-
defined channels that have experienced 
historic flooding. Some small drainages 
flow continuously and some intermittently 
throughout the year. All drainage tributaries 
have the potential for high flows during the 
spring runoff period. After a winter of heavy 
T able 6.2: Key Social Factors to Consider in Resilience Planning, from (Emigration Canyon Metro T ownship, 
2019) *Poverty levels and all other data from the US Census Bureau American Community Survey, 2017 .  
T able 6.3: Health factors that can complicate access to social networks and reduce mobility. Source: Salt 
Lake County Health Department Community Health Data Dashboard (Healthy Salt Lake, 2020).
 Page. 118         
     
Page. 119      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Landslide/Slope Failure
Elevations in Emigration Canyon range from 
about 5,100 feet near the mouth of canyon to 
just over 8,900 feet at the summit of Lookout 
Peak along the northern boundary of the 
Municipality. Due to the natural topography, 
slope stability issues are the most prominent 
geologic hazard encountered in the canyon. 
Historically, landslides have occurred in 
Emigration Canyon, especially in the steep 
areas of Pinecrest. Much of the Canyon is 
dominated by lands where slopes exceed 30 
percent. Several places in Emigration Canyon 
would experience road closure if a landslide 
were to occur.
Severe Weather (Wind)
Given the differing elevation and a large 
number of trees in the town, heavy winds can 
occur and impact some areas much worse 
than others, typically involving knocking large 
trees over, which is especially problematic 
when a fallen tree blocks a road.
Public Health Epidemic/Pandemic
Public Health Epidemic/Pandemic While a 
public health epidemic or pandemic ranks 
sixth based on the probability and severity 
of occurrence in the Hazard Mitigation Plan 
(Emigration Canyon Metro Township, 2019), 
the COVID-19 pandemic, which arrived in 
Utah in March 2020, is still causing global 
disruptions as of the writing of this plan. 
People aged 65 years and older, those who 
are immunocompromised, or those with 
underlying conditions such as diabetes, 
are more susceptible to suffer severe illness 
or death. Governments, communities, and 
individuals have altered their habits in 
attempts to prevent the spread of the virus. 
precipitation, many parts of Emigration 
Canyon dealt with high water and flooding 
issues during the Spring of 2011. Jurisdictional 
wetlands have been delineated by the US 
Army Corps of Engineers along Emigration 
Creek. Chances of riverine flooding greatly 
increase post-wildfire.
Wildfire
There is a high risk of wildfires in Emigration 
Canyon (Figure 6.2). While the community is a 
Firewise community (Table 6.1), fires are hard 
to fight given the area’s terrain. Residential 
development in Emigration Canyon often 
interfaces with areas of undeveloped canyon 
lands that exist in a natural state. This 
bordering of residential development on open 
lands or what is termed the Wildland-Urban 
Interface (WUI) is part of the charm of the 
canyon for many residents. The WUI area 
has inherent risks associated with it, mainly 
dangers from a wildfire that can and do 
occur in the foothills and canyons from time 
to time. Whether these fires are started due to 
natural causes or by human activities, they 
can quickly spread across the thicker natural 
vegetation (fuels) of undeveloped areas and 
threaten adjacent residential development. 
According to locals, Pinecrest is the only 
area in the canyon where fire suppression is 
considered to be inadequate. 
Earthquake
No known active faults have been mapped 
within Emigration Canyon Township. The 
nearest active fault is the Salt Lake segment 
of the Wasatch Fault, located about two-and-
a-half miles west of the mouth of Emigration 
Canyon. Seismic hazards in Emigration 
Township will come primarily from the 
seismic waves that are generated during large 
earthquakes, should such an event occur. 
However, given the nature of sediments found 
in the Emigration Canyon, the soil liquefaction 
potential is typically considered below 
average. The 5.7 magnitude earthquake 
centered in Magna, Utah that occurred at 
7:09 AM MDT on March 18, 2020, could be 
felt in Emigration Canyon, but no substantial 
damage was reported in the Canyon as a 
result of the quake.
Severe Winter Weather
Winter storms are common in Emigration. 
Poor drainage in some areas of the canyon 
has historically created road icing in the 
winter and subsequent traffic safety issues, 
but the road repaving project undertaken in 
the summer of 2020 has aimed to address 
this issue. There is also an increased risk 
of avalanche in some areas of the Canyon, 
particularly in the Pinecrest area.
Figure 6.2: Wildfire risk for Emigration Canyon. Source: (Emigration Canyon Metro T ownship, 2019).
 Figure 6.3: Landslide Susceptibility and Incident Impact Potential. Source: (Emigration Canyon Metro 
T ownship, 2019).
Wind Damage, September 8, 2020, Emigration 
Canyon trees uprooted.
 Photo courtesy of Joe Smolka.
 Page. 120         
     
Page. 121      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
The full impacts and implications of this 
pandemic, including its impacts on planning 
and development, are yet unknown.
Air Quality
The Salt Lake Valley has some of the worst 
air quality in the nation, ranking 7th worst 
among large metro areas in the United States 
in a 2020 report (Maffly, 2020). While this 
issue is not as much of an immediate concern 
for residents of Emigration Canyon, as their 
geography prevents all but the worst air 
quality days from having severe impacts on 
Canyon residents, the collective issue of Salt 
Lake Valley air quality is a top concern for 
Canyon residents (see Appendix C). This topic 
is covered in more depth in Chapter 5.     
Climate Change
Utah’s climate is changing. Over the last 100 
years, the state has warmed by almost two 
degrees (F). Heat waves and drought are more 
common, and snow is melting earlier in spring. 
While climate change is occurring on a global 
scale, the effects are felt at the local level. In 
the coming decades, Emigration Canyon is 
likely to see climate change effects such as 
decreased snow pack and water flows, more 
frequent and intense wildfires and storms, 
increasing invasive species and increasing 
rates of health effects such as respiratory 
disease, asthma prevalence and heat-
related disease (US Environmental Protection 
Agency, 2016).  
6.2.3 Infrastructure
There are three different kinds of infrastructure 
that support community health and 
wellbeing and facilitate community resilience 
in the event of a disaster or change; these are 
physical infrastructure, digital infrastructure, 
and social infrastructure. While there is some 
overlap among these categories, it is useful 
to separate them in order to highlight the 
crucial role of each in maintaining community 
resilience when confronting a challenging 
situation such as a natural hazard or an 
economic downturn.
Physical Infrastructure and Related 
Services
For each of the physical infrastructure types 
listed in the subsections that follow, it is 
important to consider the age, condition, 
location, and role the infrastructure 
plays locally – these are crucial factors 
in determining how these sectors will be 
impacted by events such as flooding (intensity, 
frequency), wildfires, etc.
Utility and Energy Right of Way
There are many designated utility rights-
of-way in Emigration Canyon. These 
existing rights-of-way (ROWs) include 
pipelines that carry crude oil (Chevron) 
Photo above: Emigration canyon pipeline, courtesy Intermountain Region USFS. 
and natural gas (Questar), as well as fiber-
optic communication cables and electrical 
transmission lines. Although there is fiber-
optic cable in the canyon, it doesn’t serve 
canyon residents, but instead provides an 
important regional access line. Internet is 
dial-up, DSL or satellite. There is some cellular 
infrastructure in the Canyon, but coverage is 
not always reliable due to Canyon geography. 
TV is limited to airwaves and satellite. These 
ROWs are an important feature in the canyon 
as they often serve as the de-facto trails and 
function as wildlife corridors.
Water system and supply      
The main source of water provided to 
Canyon residents is through the public water 
system operated by the Emigration Canyon 
Improvement District (EID). EID’s water 
system covers approximately 70% of the area 
of the Canyon as of December 2020. The 
system begins just below the Fire Station, up 
the main canyon road to the lower portion of 
Pinecrest, Killyons Lane and the Emigration 
Oaks Development. The water system 
comprises two reservoirs totaling 1.3 million 
gallons of storage capacity and fire hydrants 
that meet or exceed the current fire flow codes. 
To date, all water provided by EID comes 
from three deep source wells. EID currently 
provides water to over 300 homes, but expects 
to provide water to as many as 500 potential 
homes located in the water system.  There are 
over 100 homes from lower Pinecrest, Killyons 
and along the Main Canyon Road that rely on 
private wells for water.
The 60 lots of the Emigration Place 
Development, plus five or six additional lots 
nearby, receive their water from Salt Lake 
City Department of Public Utilities (SLCDPU). 
SLCDPU runs a water line from Salt Lake 
City to provide water to Emigration Place 
and Camp Kostopulos and provide hydrants 
for fire protection to the Emigration Place 
Development and some hydrants along 
the Main Canyon Road to the mouth of the 
Canyon. Sunnydale Lane area residents rely 
on private wells for water and do not have 
access to the SLCDPU waterline.  
There are two smaller public water systems 
in Emigration Canyon. Spring Glen Water 
Company provides water to approximately 
16 homes located around Skycrest Lane. 
The system has a storage capacity of 60,000 
gallons. This system is located within the EID’s 
water system as an alternative source of water.  
When the EID expanded its water system 
in 2007, it included the Skycrest Lane area 
to provide an alternative water supply and 
provide adequate fire protection. The second 
public water system includes the Pinecrest 
Pipeline Operating Company (PPOC), which 
provides water to approximately 20 homes 
located in the Upper Pinecrest area. PPOC 
does have a few hydrants located in the area, 
however, the storage capacity would not meet 
current fire flow code nor provide adequate 
fire protection. The remainder of the homes in 
the area rely on private wells for water.
Typical system-wide indoor water use is in the 
range of 50,000-60,000 gallons of water per 
day outside the summer months. The total 
system water use now reaches about 250,000 
gallons per day during the hottest and driest 
summer months when irrigation use is at 
peak demand. The EID promotes water 
conservation by canyon residents through a 
pricing structure that increases with volume 
used. 
Land development affects both the quantity 
and quality of the groundwater. Because of 
this link, the impacts of existing and future 
development on this sensitive resource should 
be studied and managed with care. Public 
drinking water suppliers are required by state 
and federal laws to protect water quality in 
their wells by designating water protection 
zones and implementing restrictions that 
apply to each specific zone. Depending on 
the designated groundwater protection zone, 
septic systems may be prohibited or restricted. 
Protection of drinking water quality falls 
under the jurisdiction of both the Division of 
Drinking Water and Salt Lake County Health 
Department and is overseen by the EPA. The 
location of groundwater protection zones 
is restricted information under state and 
federal laws. For access to this information 
individuals can register with the Department 
of Environmental Quality and then access 
their interactive map here: https://enviro.deq.
utah.gov/
The following regulations, Utah code, and 
ordinances apply to public water providers 
and protect drinking water in public wells:
• Utah Administrative Code, Rule R 309-
600
• Salt Lake County Health Department, 
 Page. 122         
     
Page. 123      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
regulation #13
• Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 
Chapter 9.25
• Emigration Canyon Metro Township, 
ordinance 18-18-01
Examples of how these regulations have 
affected land use and wastewater systems in 
Emigration Canyon: 
• EID has installed a cluster system to 
divert wastewater from a small group 
of homes away from a groundwater 
protection zone associated with one of 
their wells.
• SLCDPU has prevented the installation 
of some standard or alternative septic 
systems because of concerns about water 
quality implications associated with one 
of the groundwater protection zones that 
they oversee.
• A permit to build a new home in a 
groundwater protection zone has been 
litigated due to groundwater protection 
regulations associated with the area. 
Septic, wastewater, stormwater 
In 2002 Emigration Creek was listed as an 
impaired waterbody for recreational use by 
the Utah Division of Water Quality (DWQ) 
based on data collected showing high 
bacterial levels (fecal coliform). “Impaired 
waters” are those waterbodies that currently 
fail to meet water quality standards 
established by the State. Subsequent to this 
listing, the State is required to develop a Total 
Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) water quality 
study to establish pollutant level reductions 
in impaired waters and achieve water quality 
standards. A TMDL is a calculation of the 
maximum amount of a pollutant that a 
waterbody can receive on a daily basis and 
still meet water quality standards. The TMDL 
process results in load allocations to each 
pollutant contributor. These allocations often 
result in regulatory controls and mandates. 
More details on water quality are included in 
Chapter 5: Environment. 
Coordinated monitoring efforts by the State 
Division of Water Quality, Salt Lake County, 
Salt Lake Valley Health Department (SLVHD), 
Salt Lake City, University of Utah and U.S. 
Geological Survey (USGS) have suggested 
that potential origins of E. coli contamination 
in Emigration Creek include improper solid 
waste disposal, stormwater runoff, domestic 
animals including pets, wildlife, seepage from 
old sewage holding vaults, and poorly sited or 
failing septic tank leach fields (Hubbard-Rice, 
2015). 
All existing and new development is required 
by State Law to provide individual septic tank 
drain fields and holding vaults. The Salt Lake 
Valley Health Department is charged with the 
responsibility of regulating these facilities for 
compliance with laws governing groundwater 
contamination and source water protection. 
Due to the terrain and physical limitations 
of Emigration Canyon, a canyon-wide sewer 
system is not feasible or practical and is 
unlikely to be developed. Smaller treatment 
systems, called cluster systems, could be 
feasible in some areas of the canyon as an 
alternative to an all-inclusive sewer system.
The State Division of Water Quality presently 
does not consider urban stormwater runoff  
as “wastewater” but does require that best 
management practices (mainly erosion and 
runoff controls) be implemented during both 
construction and post-construction phases.
Roads 
Due to a combination of physical and use 
factors, multiple hazards are associated 
with the main canyon road. The popularity 
of the main canyon road as a destination for 
cyclists and other alternative mode users has 
“exploded” in recent years according to some 
locals (Salt Lake County, 2012). During the 
COVID-19 pandemic that started in 2020, 
sightseers seeking to escape the confines of 
Salt Lake City were also reported to break 
previous use records]. The popularity of 
the road with all kinds of users has led to 
ongoing ‘share the road’ issues between 
vehicle drivers and other mode users, which 
are compounded by the lack of consistent 
recreational bicycle lanes in some areas 
where the canyon is too narrow to make 
them feasible. Additional road hazards can 
arise from loose rocks, drainage issues, and 
visibility constraints. Road maintenance and 
improvement projects were initiated in 2020 
based on the recommendations provided in 
a comprehensive road report (Lochner, 2016) 
and will continue as funding is available (see 
Transportation Chapter for details). There are 
several private roads located in Emigration 
Canyon that can further complicate 
emergency and/or hazard response due to 
non-standard road widths and/or irregular 
maintenance.
Waste and Recycling  
Although waste and recycling services are 
provided to canyon residents year-round, the 
provision of these services can be challenging 
under some conditions, especially in the more 
distant corners of the Canyon, or areas with 
non-standard roads. Wasatch Front Waste 
and Recycling (https://wasatchfrontwaste.
org/) has provided three community 
dumpsters that service homeowners on steep, 
narrow, unpaved roads who cannot receive 
curbside trash/recycling service. In other 
parts of the Canyon, waste and recycling are 
picked up weekly. Vouchers for fee waivers 
for people who haul their trash to the landfill 
themselves can be obtained from Emigration 
Canyon’s Community Council Representative. 
Wasatch Front Waste & Recycling District 
allows additional cans, for an additional 
annual fee.  Waste and recycling are taken to 
the Trans-Jordan landfill located off Bacchus 
Highway in South Jordan City.
Parks and Open Space 
Publicly owned lands constitute the majority 
of land area in Emigration Canyon. These 
lands contain many of the trails that exist in 
the canyon. Existing trails are identified in the 
Salt Lake County Current Regional Trails Map 
(Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation, n.d.), 
while potential future trails are identified in the 
adopted Emigration Canyon Trails Master 
Plan (Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation, 
2007) and updated 2019 priority projects 
list (Emigration Canyon Community Council, 
2019). Canyon trails are generally multi-use 
designated, accommodating a mix of hiking 
and biking activities. Limited infrastructure 
exists to support these activities, which has 
led to some conflict among Canyon residents 
and visitors over parking and trail access. 
The narrow, non-standard Canyon roads, 
particularly in the upper limits of Pinecrest 
and Killyons, are easily congested by visiting 
parked cars.  
Age and Type of Structures
The age and type of structures influence 
how most structures hold up after disasters. 
According to the Utah Seismic Safety 
Commission, structures built before 1975 are 
unreinforced masonry (2016). This means that 
structures do not have modern safety features, 
such as steel-reinforcements, roof to wall 
attachments, and wall to floor attachments. 
Such features enable the structure to handle 
disturbances, such as earthquakes.
• 356 structures were built in 1980 or later, 
indicating that they are built to better 
withstand earthquakes.
• 298 structures were built before 1970 and 
are unlikely to have earthquake safety 
features unless retrofitted later.
• 94 structures were built between 1970 
and 1979 and may or may not have 
these safety features.
The age and type of structures impact safety 
and livability concerns as well. Older homes 
are more likely to deal with lead paint (widely 
used until a nationwide ban in 1978), inefficient 
heating and cooling systems, low accessibility, 
high levels of radon gas, asbestos, unhealthy 
water quality, and poor indoor air quality (US 
Department of Health and Human Services, 
2009). These characteristics negatively 
impact physical and mental health, with 
possible effects including increased likelihood 
for cancer, lead poisoning and developmental 
delays, depression, and respiratory disease 
(ibid). Older homes generally require more 
maintenance to remain livable and to combat 
outdated standards. If maintenance is 
neglected, whether due to its expense or the 
inability of the resident to conduct the repairs, 
the household may expose themselves to 
further risk.
Digital Infrastructure
Digital infrastructure comprises the physical 
resources that are needed to enable the use 
of data, computerized devices, methods, 
systems, and processes. Digital infrastructure 
has rapidly become indispensable to a high 
functioning society and is tightly intertwined 
with the quality of life of its citizens. Access 
to key components of a good quality of life 
such as jobs, education, public services, and 
healthcare is increasingly provided via high-
speed internet and associated digital devices 
(Tomer et al., 2020). This situation has been 
intensified by the COVID-19 pandemic which 
has rapidly normalized work and school-
from-home processes, thus illuminating the 
“digital divide” that separates high-income 
and low-income neighborhoods, or rural and 
urban ones, in America (Hegel & Wilding, 
2019). 
 Page. 124         
     
Page. 125      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon houses some wireless 
telecommunications infrastructure, mainly at a site on 
Little Mountain. This property, owned by Salt Lake City, 
houses equipment for numerous service providers. Despite 
this concentration, the Municipality does have numerous 
areas where wireless phone and other providers encounter 
service issues and problems (see Table 6.4 for details on 
broadband access). 
Upgrading and expanding services in the canyon is 
dependent upon several factors, including finding a 
suitable site (e.g. cannot impact aesthetics or intrude on 
designated ridgelines, would overcome “dead spots”). 
This has proved challenging. Several companies have 
looked at enhancing services in the canyon in recent years, 
but few advances have been made other than a new 
wireless telecommunication facility, intended to improve 
emergency communication and response, installed by 
Verizon Wireless in the early 2000s and located across 
from Standel Cove. Space in the facility is also set aside 
for privately-owned wireless radio equipment to facilitate 
emergency communication functions.
Social Infrastructure
While Social infrastructure includes schools, community 
groups, outdoor markets, coffee shops, libraries, parks, 
religious institutions, and other physical assets that create 
a culture of neighborliness, acceptance, and connection 
(Landau, 2019). Emigration Canyon’s social infrastructure 
is extremely limited; the Fire Station, Ruth’s, Emigration 
Brewery, Camp K and a few parks in the area are the 
primary locations where social connections might occur 
and services be provided within the canyon itself. The lack 
of access to in-canyon health and emergency services can 
be a concern for aging communities such as Emigration 
Canyon. However, while the social infrastructure in the 
canyon is limited, canyon residents still find opportunities 
to connect and to look after one another. In part perhaps 
Figure 6.4: Unreinforced masonry in Emigration Canyon. Source: Salt Lake County Emergency 
Management T eam. 
because the canyon lacks immediate access to many services, 
community members reportedly rely on one another for assistance 
and support in ways that may not be needed in a more urban 
setting, planning and development, are yet unknown.
Firewise fair, photo courtesy of Lisa Tippetts.
T able 6.4: Broadband details for Emigration Canyon.

 Page. 126         
     
Page. 127      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
6.3  PLANNING FOR FUTURE RESILIENCE
“It is not the strongest of the species that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the 
one most responsive to change. ”
- Charles Darwin
Firewise fair, courtesy of Lisa Tippetts.
6.3.1 Key Challenges
Key challenges to address when planning 
for future resilience in Emigration Canyon 
include: 
• A substantial aging population; by 2024, 
24.2 percent of the Emigration Canyon 
population is expected to be over the 
age of 65 (Esri, 2020). Health factors 
associated with an aging population can 
complicate the response to hazards and 
other emergencies. 
• Access to the internet is high in the area, 
but it is not universal, and not the best 
quality (see Table 6.4 for details), making 
communication across the entire canyon 
a multiple-platform process. 
• Linguistic isolation, which may be minor 
concern at present and could increase as 
the population in the Canyon diversifies 
(Esri, 2020), is another factor that can 
complicate communication with Canyon 
residents.  
• Although poverty is not a major concern 
for most Emigration Canyon residents, 
there are households at every income 
level that are housing cost-burdened 
(spending over 30% income on housing) 
(see Appendix D for details). This can 
create inequities within the Canyon in 
response to hazards and changes and 
place a disproportionate burden on some 
members of the community if and when a 
hazard or emergency arises. 
• Aging and outdated infrastructure in the 
Canyon may further complicate response 
or recovery from hazards and risks, 
especially when it comes to the roads in 
the area, some of which are very narrow 
and may not be maintained to industry 
standards. Ingress and Egress from the 
Canyon is an important related concern. 
6.3.2 Key Opportunities
The Emigration Canyon community has 
many opportunities and resources that can 
be leveraged to support improved resilience 
planning in the future. These include: 
• The relative affluence and high 
educational qualifications held by the 
majority of community members position 
the community to be able to respond to 
a wide range of challenges that could 
arise in the area. To support continued 
strengths in these areas, the community 
needs to consider investing in two key 
features: 
• Enhance fiscal capacity/economic 
resilience of the local government 
(Harvell, 2018; RUPRI, 2013)
• Seek opportunities to expand access 
to fiber-based internet (Table 6.5)  
• Strong social networks both within 
and extending beyond the Canyon 
boundaries can be counted on to leverage 
resources relatively quickly and efficiently 
in a crisis. 
• The community has a history of 
successfully utilizing educational and 
behavior change programs such as 
Firewise to address hazards in the area. 
Additional programs that could be 
implemented to improve resilience in the 
area include: 
• Green infrastructure programs that rely 
on natural resources to address hazards 
and risks
• Native planting guidelines https://
slco.org/watershed/stream-friendly-
practices/choosing-native-plants/
• USFS - Stabilization and planting 
after wildfires https://www.fs.usda.
gov/science-technology/fire/after-fire 
• Other green infrastructure resources
• https://www.epa.gov/green-
infrastructure/learn-about-green-
T able 6.5: The options included in this table could potentially expand fiber-internet access to more 
Emigration Canyon residents, thus improving community resilience. This table is included for reference  
only and does not represent an endorsement of any of the products or services mentioned. 
 Page. 128         
     
Page. 129      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
infrastructure 
• https://www.slideshare.net/nado-
web/green-infrastructure-basic-
principles-tools
• http://cepd.cap.utah.edu/red-butte-
creek-research-symposium-2018/
green-infrastructure-research-
facility/
6.3.3 Resilience and 
Infrastructure Work Program 
Goals
The following Resilience and Infrastructure 
Work Program goals were developed 
with guidance from the GPSC, based on 
community input, and with consideration 
for the data, opportunities and challenges 
outlined in this and previous chapters. The 
work program can be used to guide the 
implementation of the General Plan and 
make progress on Emigration Canyon’s 
resilience and infrastructure goals. The work 
program outlines goals, objectives, and 
actions, with the responsible parties, timeline 
for implementation, approximate cost, metric 
for success, and relevant resources also 
delineated. However, the Emigration Canyon 
Metro Township Council is the governing 
body of the Municipality and will determine 
how best to achieve the goals, objectives, 
and actions that are included in the work 
plan, including how best to implement 
recommendations such as the formation 
of working groups. Details are included to 
support implementation but are not definitive. 
Goal 6.1: Practice fiscal 
responsibility and sustainability 
in all decision-making.
• Objective 6.1.1: Enhance Emigration 
Canyon Metro Township’s fiscal capacity 
and economic resilience.
• Objective 6.1.2: Increase collaboration 
between utility providers and municipal 
services in timing of roadway and other 
infrastructure projects.
• Objective 6.1.3: Increase transparency in 
budgeting and spending decisions.
Goal 6.2: Maintain the 
infrastructure system in good 
working condition and ensure 
that it meets the needs of current 
and future residents and visitors.
• Objective 6.2.1: Improve the safety, 
sustainability, and resilience of 
groundwater resources and associated 
infrastructure. 
• Objective 6.2.2: Maintain the road 
network in a safe and serviceable 
condition. 
Goal 6.3: Mitigate the effects of 
climate change, natural disaster 
risk, and other hazards.
• Objective 6.3.1: Increase responsible 
stewardship over energy and resources.
• Objective 6.3.2: Reduce key hazard risks 
for Emigration Canyon community 
members.
Goal 6.4: Adapt to climate 
change, natural disaster risk, and 
other hazards.
• Objective 6.4.1: Improve integration 
of emergency-preparedness in local 
decision-making, community outreach, 
and planning efforts.
• Objective 6.4.2: Improve communication 
across all members of the community, 
including those who may be 
disproportionately affected by a disaster 
or change.
Goal 6.5: Ensure that all 
community members enjoy a 
sense of belonging and high 
levels of social connectedness 
and trust.
• Objective 6.5.1: Improve opportunities 
for potentially disproportionately 
affected residents to become engaged 
in community leadership and service, 
especially planning and decision-making 
processes.
• Objective 6.5.2: Increase access to spaces 
where people from diverse backgrounds 
feel safe and welcome to gather, play, 
organize, and engage with one another.
Canyon Cleanup Day, Photo Courtesy of Catherine Harris.
 Page. 130         
     
Page. 131      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
CHAPTER 7: 
COMMUNITY
WORK PROGRAM 
Fall Color.  Photo Courtesy of Bill Tobey.
CHAPTER 7: COMMUNITY WORK PROGRAM  130
7.1 OVERVIEW 132
ChaPter 2: land use & CharaCter areas wOrk PrOgraM                   133
ChaPter 3: transPOrtatiOn and MObility wOrk PrOgraM                   138
ChaPter 4: eCOnOMiC develOPMent wOrk PrOgraM                    141
ChaPter 5: envirOnMent wOrk PrOgraM                     142
ChaPter 6: resilienCe and inFrastruCture wOrk PrOgraM                   147
REFERENCES 154
LIST OF FIGURES & TABLES                   158
APPENDIX A-L: 160
FOr COMPlete aPPendix a-l see: bit.ly/lrP-eC 160
 Page. 132         
     
Page. 133      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
7 .1 OVERVIEW
This chapter revisits the work program  
goals and objectives from all previous 
chapters and expands on them by adding 
detailed action items corresponding 
to each objective.. Each work program 
was developed from an analysis of 
existing conditions, the community’s 
feedback, consideration of key underlying 
planning concepts, and the community’s 
vision and goals related to that topic. 
Although the General Plan is divided 
into distinct chapters, the subjects are 
tightly interconnected. Because of these 
relationships, common themes emerge 
across the work programs, but specific 
actions related to the chapter topic are 
highlighted in each. Explicit overlap 
and connections have been highlighted 
in the resources section of the work 
program where relevant. As a whole, the 
Community Work Program provides a 
detailed outline of how the Municipality 
can achieve its envisioned future.
Chapter 2: Land Use & Character Areas Work Program
Goal 2.1: Preserve the culture, identity, and character of Emigration Canyon 
Metro Township’s built environment.
Objective 2.1.1: Enhance protection of the unique canyon ecosystem and scenery.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Adopt the Ridgeline Protection Areas 
identified and delineated in the previously 
adopted Emigration Canyon General Plans 
(1999/2012).
PC, PDS Immediate Staff time General Plan Adopt-
ed
Salt Lake County 
Planning and 
Development Services, 
1999; Salt Lake 
County, 2012b. Preserve existing zoning standards that 
protect the unique canyon ecosystem and 
scenery, including those that mandate large-lot 
zoning where such zoning is appropriate for the 
mountain setting.
PC, PDS Immediate Staff time General Plan 
Adopted
c. Establish a working group, at EC Metro’s 
discretion, to develop guidelines and standards 
for new developments that will incorporate 
principles of connectivity and open space 
design, such as cluster subdivisions, where 
feasible and appropriate.
PC, PDS Highest Priority Staff time Working group 
established
Sustainable 
Development Code 
Ch 3 Land Use and 
Community Character
d. Encourage subdivision design that promotes 
physical connectivity and multi-modal mobility 
between existing developments and proposed 
new ones.
PC, PDS Priority Staff time Guidelines 
established, 
connectivity 
enhanced
e. Encourage any new residential development 
to infill already existing neighborhoods, rather 
than building on currently undeveloped lands.
PC, PDS Priority Staff time Guidelines 
established, 
connectivity 
enhanced
f. In adopting ordinances, consider working 
group recommendations regarding 
enhanced standards and guidelines for new 
developments.
PDS, PC, EC 
Metro
Encouraged Staff time Ordinance adopted
 Page. 134         
     
Page. 135      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Objective 2.1.2: Improve the safety, sustainability, and resilience of the built environment.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Support land use and development patterns 
that incorporate nature, scale and use into 
the built environment and increase public 
awareness and responsibility toward the 
natural environment.
PC, PDS Immediate 
and ongoing
Staff time Approved project 
assessment 
Sustainable 
Development Code 
Ch 1-2 Low-impact 
Development
b. Establish a working group, at EC Metro’s 
discretion, to develop appropriate design 
guidelines to address relevant safety, 
sustainability, and resilience issues and 
update General Plan as needed (e.g. 
architectural compatibility with surrounding 
environment, utilization of local and/or 
sustainable materials and technologies in new 
construction, natural resource and roadway 
constraints).
EC Metro, PC, 
PDS
Strongly 
Encouraged
Staff time Working group established, 
guidelines produced 
See also objective 
5.2.1a, 6.2.1a
c. Develop and adopt ordinances to progress 
working group guideline recommendations.
PC, EC Metro, 
PDS
Encouraged Staff time Ordinance(s) adopted N/A
d. Adopt a waterwise ordinance. PC, EC Metro, 
PDS
High Priority Staff time Ordinance adopted DNR Conservation 
Program
e. Encourage compliance with Firewise 
guidelines and ordinances.
EC Metro, ECCC, 
UFA
Immediate 
and ongoing
Staff time Increase in participation 
and compliance
Berry et. al., 2016
f. Develop guidelines to incentivize landowners 
to install renewable energy technologies and 
green infrastructure on their properties.
EC Metro, PC, 
PDS
Strongly 
Encouraged
Staff time Guidelines developed Sustainable 
Development Code 
Ch 1-2 Low-impact 
Development
g. Seek funding to support renewable energy 
and green infrastructure incentivization 
efforts.
PDS Encouraged Staff time Grants submitted WFRC, EPA
Goal 2.2: Enhance community connectedness and sense of place.
Objective 2.2.1: Increase connectedness and sense of place within and between character 
areas.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Establish a working group, at EC Metro’s 
discretion, of local artists, educators, and 
residents to develop historic markers, 
educational signage, and wayfinding signage.
ECCC, PDS Strongly 
Encouraged
Staff time Working group established N/A
b. Seek funding to support the establishment 
of historic markers, educational signage, and 
wayfinding signage.
ECCC, PDS Encouraged Staff time, grant 
match ($)
Grants submitted Utah Funding 
Directory
c. Consider future Ag/FR Zone conflicts, 
especially those associated with animals, and 
update zoning/ordinances as needed.
PC, PDS High Priority Staff time Assessment conducted,
updates made as needed
N/A
Objective 2.2.2: Increase spaces for local community gatherings and recreation.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
1. Conduct a study of viable local park/open 
space access interests, needs, and future 
requirements for existing communities and 
new subdivisions.
PDS Highest 
Priority
Staff time Completed study Sustainable 
Development Code 
Ch 6 Healthy 
2. Progress local park/open space access 
study recommendations as resources become 
available.
PC, PDS Priority Staff time Recommendations 
incorporated into 
guidelines, ordinances, and 
projects
 Page. 136         
     
Page. 137      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Goal 2.3: Preserve and enhance ecological features, viewsheds, wildlife 
corridors, and open space.
Objective 2.3.1: Improve management of existing open space amenities.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Apply for funding to support trails, bathroom 
and/or parking facility development in high 
priority open space areas already identified in 
previous plans.
PDS, 
Engineering, 
ECCC
Immediate and 
ongoing
Grants and grant 
match ($), Staff 
time
Grants submitted UORG
b. Develop trails, bathroom and/or parking 
facilities in high priority open space areas 
already identified in previous plans as funds 
become available.
PDS, 
Engineering, 
ECCC
Immediate and 
ongoing
Grants and grant 
match ($), Staff 
time
Areas developed 
to enhance and 
manage open 
space access
Salt Lake County 
Parks and Recreation, 
2007; Emigration 
Canyon Community 
Council, 2019
c. Conduct a recreational use study of 
Emigration Canyon.
PDS Highest Priority Staff time Completed study American Trails
d. Conduct an open space area plan for 
Emigration Canyon, including updating existing 
conservation easements and other ownership 
and conditions data, and identifying areas 
for preservation that have public benefit for 
preservation of open space, scenic views, trails, 
and critical wildlife habitat.
PC, ECCC, PDS Highest Priority Staff time Completed plan See also: Ch 5 
Environment Work 
Plan
e. Progress open space plan recommendations 
as resources become available.
PC, ECCC, PDS Priority Staff time Projects progressed N/A
f. Dedicate funding for land acquisition/
education/outreach to preserve open space 
and wildlife habitat/corridors and encourage 
conservation easements in alignment with open 
space area plan recommendations.
ECCC, EC Metro, 
UoL
Strongly 
Encouraged
Staff time, grant 
match ($), other $
Funding available See also: Ch 5 
Environment Work 
Plan
g. Develop a holistic environmental review 
checklist to assess proposed new developments.
PC, PDS Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Environmental 
review process 
established
HUD Toolkit
h. Limit development that encroaches on the 
viewshed, threatens surface or groundwater 
quality, increases noise pollution, or infringes 
on critical plant and animal habitats and 
migration paths.
PC, EC Metro, 
PDS
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Approved project 
assessment
N/A
g.  Incorporate current Wildland Urban 
Interface guidelines into planning and zoning in 
order to increase the resilience to wildfire.
Utah DNR, PC, 
EC Metro
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Recommendations 
incorporated 
into guidelines, 
ordinances, and 
projects
https://ffsl.utah.
gov/fire/wildfire-
community-
preparedness/ 
Objective 2.3.2: Preserve and enhance views of the night sky and protections for nocturnal 
wildlife.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Support the adoption of a Dark Sky compliant 
light-pollution control ordinance.
PDS, PC, EC Metro Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Ordinance enacted IDA
b. Support the adoption of a natural view shed 
preservation ordinance.
PDS, PC, EC Metro Highest Priority Ordinance enacted Monticello’s 
viewshed
Goal 2.4: Preserve and enhance existing commercial activities.
Objective 2.4.1: Increase support for commercial activities that enhance the quality of life of 
canyon residents and adhere to canyon character and values.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Allow small home-based businesses as long as 
parking is available and deemed adequate for the 
type of business desired.
PC, PDS Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Approved project 
assessment
See also Chapter 4
b. Consider environmental impact, and impact on 
roads and traffic when evaluating proposed changes 
in commercial or residential zoning.
PC, PDS Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Approved project 
assessment
 Page. 138         
     
Page. 139      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Chapter 3: Transportation and Mobility Work Program
Goal 3.1: Enhance the existing character, integrity, and environmental 
management of the Canyon roads.
Objective 3.1.1: Improve traffic and growth management to maintain the character and 
integrity of Emigration Canyon.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Conduct continuous traffic and speed studies 
to provide cohesive datasets for future decision 
making, including consideration of road 
limitations. 
Engineering, 
UPD, PDS
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Reports produced, 
presented, and made 
available online 
Methods and 
Practices for 
Setting Speed 
Limits 
b. Include the most up-to-date traffic and 
growth data available in planning staff reports 
regarding development proposals, especially 
those that modify zoning.
PDS, PC, EC 
Metro
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Decision makers access 
and reference reports
regarding 
transportation planning 
and decision making.
N/A
c. Conduct a connectivity study for
Emigration Canyon that addresses e.g. the 
feasibility of public transit, ride sharing, electric 
car infrastructure, and telecommunication 
improvement options,taking into consideration 
the needs of all, including residents, visitors, the 
vulnerable, and the character of the Canyon.
PDS, UTA Encouraged Staff time Report(s) produced,
presented, and
made available
regarding
transportation
planning and
decision making.
Deschutes National 
Forest: Alternative 
Transportation 
Feasibility Study
d. Pursue recommended connectivity study 
improvements as soon as practical.
EC Metro On the horizon Staff time Staff directed to
pursue top priority
projects.
N/A 
Objective 3.1.2: Reduce and/or minimize noise pollution throughout Emigration Canyon.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Strategize with UPD regarding opportunities 
to enhance noise pollution enforcement 
(including considerations of aircraft and drones).
UPD, Legal 
counsel, PDS
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Meetings among staff 
and strategy developed. 
Noise Pollution 
Clearinghouse
b. Support improved noise pollution controls 
and enforcement measures (e.g. strict speed 
enforcement, use of EPA compliant exhaust 
systems on motorcycles).
UPD Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Increased enforcement
record, reduced number 
of noise complaints.
N/A
Objective 3.1.3: Increase trailhead parking and related facilities.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Design projects to be shovel-ready. ECCC, PDS Immediate and 
ongoing
Volunteer and 
staff time
Designs ready and ap-
proved by all partners.
See also objective 
2.3.1
b. Apply for trail-related grants. ECCC, PDS Immediate and 
ongoing
Volunteer and 
staff time
Grants applied for.
c. Build and maintain facilities in appropriate 
areas, based on 2019 priorities (e.g. where trails 
exist or are planned and in keeping with the cur-
rent version of the Emigration
Canyon Trails Master Plan) as funding becomes 
available.
ECCC High Priority Volunteer time, 
grant funding 
matches ($).
Length of trails
built/maintained,
Number of parking and 
other support
facilities built.
Salt Lake County
Parks and
Recreation, 2007;
Emigration Canyon
Community Coun-
cil,
2019
Goal 3.2: Provide a safe, efficient transportation network for all users.
Objective 3.2.1: Improve safety of Emigration Canyon’s roadways for all users.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Where practical, build and maintain all public 
roads to State and County standards.
Engineering, 
UPD, PDS
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Regular inspection 
reports.
Engineering
b. Build and maintain all private roads per 
the plans approved and permitted by MSD/
Engineering.
Developer, 
property owners
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Regular inspection 
reports.
c. Ensure the safety of all road users through 
the appropriate application of signage, striping, 
traffic calming and enforcement.
Engineering, 
UPD, PDS
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Regular inspection 
reports.
 Page. 140         
     
Page. 141      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
d. Manage traffic speeds along the entire 
length of Emigration Canyon Road through the 
appropriate application of signage, striping, 
traffic calming, and enforcement.
UPD, 
Engineering, PDS
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Reports produced, 
presented, and available 
re: transportation 
planning and decision 
making.
Lochner, 2016
e. Implement projects in a priority order 
(identified in Lochner) to achieve the highest 
benefit/cost first, while recognizing there 
are limited funds available to achieve  road 
improvements.
Engineering, 
PDS, EC Metro
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Grants applied for, 
projects funded.
f. Implement roadway striping and signing 
improvements first, followed by the construction 
projects as prioritized in the Lochner 2016 
Emigration Canyon Transportation Study, 
unless opportunities or new data suggest 
otherwise.
Engineering, 
PDS, EC Metro
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Regular reports.
Objective 3.2.2: Improve regional, city-wide, and neighborhood transportation management 
to create an efficient traffic system and reduce traffic impacts on air quality, especially 
during high-use times.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Organize a collaborative transportation 
and mobility working group, at EC Metro’s 
discretion, to ensure that all future work adopts 
best practice design standards, traffic calming 
measures, recognizes  Main Canyon Road’s vital 
role as the only alternative route for sections 
of I-80 within Lower Parley’s Canyon, and 
technologies to reduce congestion and delays 
and ensure the safety of Emigration Canyon 
residents and other users.
UPD, Legal 
counsel, PDS
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Meetings among staff 
and strategy developed. 
BBC: The
Technology
that Could End
Traffic Jams
Chapter 4: Economic Development Work Program
Goal 4.1: Foster responsible, equitable, and sustainable economic development in keeping 
with the character and values of Emigration Canyon.
Objective 4.1.1: Enhance a community environment that embraces sustainable economic 
growth, while preserving the community’s dedication to the environment, recreational 
amenities and historic identity.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Apply for digital infrastructure improvement 
funding.
PDS, EC Metro Immediate Staff time Grant applications 
submitted
WFRC, NSF
b. Develop a working group, at EC Metro’s 
discretion, to establish economic development 
criteria and support options that would be 
appropriate for the unique character and 
environment of Emigration Canyon.
PDS, ECCC Encouraged Staff time Working group 
established 
N/A
c. Support sustainable economic growth 
opportunities that would strengthen the 
community, while still preserving the 
community’s dedication to the environment, 
recreational amenities and historic identity.
PC, ECCC On the horizon Staff time Information sharing 
increased
WFRC 
d. Establish a framework of community arts & 
culture events that can bring diverse commerce 
to Emigration Canyon Metro Township while 
strengthening a sense of community and 
connection among canyon residents.
ECCC, PDS Encouraged Staff time Framework established Small Business 
Saturday
e. Develop a plan for digital infrastructure to 
provide faster and more reliable internet speeds 
and access for businesses and residents.
PDS High Priority Staff, 
consultant time
Plan produced See Table 6.5, 
Southwest Georgia 
Digital Economy 
Plan
f. Upgrade digital infrastructure access. PDS, EC Metro Strongly 
Encouraged and 
ongoing
Staff time, 
leverage funds
Access improvements WFRC, NSF
 Page. 142         
     
Page. 143      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Chapter 5: Environment Work Program
Goal 5.1: Protect and enhance clean, clear air quality.
Objective 5.1.1: Improve air quality in and around Emigration Canyon.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Support policies and strategies that reduce 
driving miles.
PC, EC Metro Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Policies and strategies 
adopted and employed
Sustainable 
Development 
Code – Chapter 
4: Mobility & 
Transportationb. Support policies and strategies that enhance 
ride sharing/public transit in Emigration 
Canyon. 
PC, EC Metro Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Policies and strategies 
adopted and employed
c. Educate local community members about air 
quality issues.
EC Metro, ECCC, 
PDS
Encouraged Staff time Newsletter articles, other 
education materials 
developed
UCAIR
Goal 5.2: Preserve and enhance the health of the watershed to ensure that it 
has adequate quality and capacity to fulfill the needs of all those who depend 
upon it for life and well-being, both human and non-human.
Objective 5.2.1: Improve water quality and maintain or improve water quantity in the Upper 
Emigration Creek subwatershed.
Actions Lead(s) Timeline Cost Metric Resources
a. Complete a watershed plan to address surface 
water contamination and other issues that could 
threaten the health of the watershed and effect land 
use options.
EC Metro, PDS
 
Immediate and 
ongoing
Grants and grant 
match ($)
Completed plan EPA;
Hubbard-Rice, 
2015; See also 
objective 2.1.2d
b. Complete a groundwater study to help guide future 
land use decision making.
EC Metro, PDS Highest priority 
or as funding is 
available
Grants and grant 
match ($)
Completed study
c. Identify funding sources to complete watershed 
plan and/or groundwater study recommendations 
where practical. 
EC Metro, PDS High Priority Grants and grant 
match ($), Staff 
time
Grants submitted
d. Implement recommendations outlined by 
watershed plan and/or groundwater study, including 
implementing updates to General Plan as needed, as 
resources become available.
PC, EC Metro,
PDS,
Engineering
Encouraged Grants and grant 
match ($), Staff 
time
Updates or changes 
to plans and codes
e. Support the application of the precautionary 
principle to proposed development projects to ensure 
that there is adequate ground and surface water 
available to fulfill the needs of all those who depend 
upon it for life and well-being, both human and non-
human.
PC, PDS Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Instances of
precautionary
principle
incorporated into
decision making
IUCN
f. Educate local community and visitors on 
watershed protection (e.g. E. coli contamination 
of the creek from non-point sources such as 
recreational users, faulty septic systems, and 
stormwater runoff).
EC Metro, ECCC, 
PDS
Encouraged Staff time,
Signage ($)
Educational materials
produced and 
disseminated
EPA - Tools and 
resources to 
protect watersheds
 Page. 144         
     
Page. 145      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
g. Encourage coordination of regulatory and 
voluntary watershed management efforts across 
scales (e.g. local, regional, state).
EC Metro, Local
groups
Encouraged 
and ongoing
Funds for
participation in 
regional
events ($)
Participate in
collaborative
cross-scale forums, 
establish
collaborative
agreements and
partnerships
DEQ Watershed 
Management, 
Utah Clean Water 
Partners 
h. Develop incentives programs to improve septic 
management and reduce water use (e.g. provide 
financial support for installation of water meters on 
private wells, provide education on benefits of water 
efficient appliances, provide support for system 
assessments that reveal leaks and enhance water 
conservation).
EC Metro, ECCC Encouraged Staff time,
incentive
funding ($)
Programs and
educational
materials
developed and
funded
Sustainable 
Development 
Code Ch 1-2 
Low-Impact 
IDevelopment
Goal 5.3: Preserve and enhance natural areas and ensure that landscapes are 
functional and diverse.
Objective 5.3.1: Increase open space preservation and access in Emigration Canyon.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Complete  an open space area plan as resources 
become available.
PDS On the horizon Staff time Completed plan Ridges to Rivers 
Open Space 
Network
b. Identify funding sources to complete plan 
recommendations.
PDS On the horizon Grants and
grant match
($), Staff
time
Grants submitted
c. Address priority projects as recommended by plan 
and as resources become available.
EC Metro On the horizon Grants and
grant match
($), Staff
time
Projects completed
Objective 5.3.2: Increase coordination of biodiversity and invasive species management in 
Emigration Canyon.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Support efforts to conduct a biodiversity 
assessment of Emigration Canyon.
Local partners, 
PDS
On the horizon Staff time Support provided Red Butte
Canyon
b. Support development of a management plan with 
key partners who operate across scales (e.g.local, 
regional, state).
Local partners, 
PDS
On the horizon Staff time Plan completed
c. Support ecosystem-based management practices 
in line with plan.
Local partners On the horizon Staff time, 
management 
support 
materials ($)
Management
projects completed
d. Support education of locals and visitors about 
the importance of biodiversity and invasive species 
management.
Local partners, 
ECCC
On the horizon Staff time,
Signage ($)
Educational events/ 
opportunities 
supported 
Objective 5.3.3: Preserve and enhance views of the night sky and protections for nocturnal 
wildlife.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Support the adoption of a Dark Sky
compliant light-pollution control ordinance.
PDS, PC, EC 
Metro
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Ordinance enacted See also
objective 2.3.2a
b. Support the adoption of a natural view
shed preservation ordinance.
PDS, PC, EC 
Metro
Highest Priority Staff time Ordinance enacted See also
objective 2.3.2b
 Page. 146         
     
Page. 147      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Goal 5.4: Foster healthy, balanced relationships between humans and nature.
Objective 5.4.1: Increase identification of cultural, historical, geological, archaeological 
and paleontologist resources.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Complete an assessment of existing cultural 
resources and prioritize projects (as resources 
become available).
PDS, Local 
partners
On the horizon Staff time Assessment 
completed
Preservation Utah 
b. Identify funding sources to support project 
implementation based on assessment 
priorities.
PDS, Local 
partners
On the horizon Staff time Grants submitted
c. Implement projects as funding becomes 
available.
ECCC, EC Metro On the horizon Grant funding 
match ($)
Projects completed
Objective 5.4.2: Increase education and outreach that encourages stewardship, 
sustainability, and other balanced  interactions with the environment.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Support events that encourage 
environmental education, stewardship, and 
sustainability.
ECCC, EC Metro Encouraged Sponsorships ($) Events supported
USEE 
b. Develop educational and outreach resources 
for Emigration Canyon MT website. ECCC, PDS On the horizon Staff time, 
resources ($) Resources developed
c. Identify funding sources to support
educational outreach project implementation. PDS, ECCC On the horizon Staff time Grants submitted
d. Develop and install educational signage at 
appropriate locations throughout Emigration 
Canyon as funding becomes available.
ECCC, EC Metro On the horizon Grant funding 
match ($) Projects completed
Chapter 6: Resilience and Infrastructure Work Program
Goal 6.1: Practice fiscal responsibility and sustainability in all decision-making.
Objective 6.1.1: Enhance Emigration Canyon Metro Township's fiscal capacity and economic 
resilience.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Conduct a fiscal capacity and economic 
resilience assessment as resources become 
available.
EC Metro, PDS Encouraged Staff time Completed assessment Rupri, 2013
b. Consider ongoing maintenance costs as a 
component of all new projects.
EC Metro, PDS Encouraged Staff time Projects assessed N/A
c. Progress recommendations resulting from 
assessment as practical.
EC Metro, PDS Encouraged Staff time Projects completed Rupri, 2013
Objective 6.1.2: Increase collaboration between utility providers and municipal services in 
timing of roadway and other infrastructure projects.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Coordinate timing of all infrastructure 
and utility projects as practical.
PDS, Engineering Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time # of coordination 
meetings/projects
Federal Highway 
Administration, 2013
b. Support adoption of a “dig-once” policy. EC Metro, PDS, 
Engineering
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time # of coordinated projects
Objective 6.1.3: Increase transparency in budgeting and spending decisions.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Adhere to Open and Public Meetings Act 
requirements.
PDS Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time # of public meetings 
posted
Open and Public 
Meetings Act, 2018
b. Publish outreach/educational 
information about budget and spending in 
EC newsletter and/or other relevant outlets.
PDS, EC Metro Encouraged Staff time # of publications/posts Emigration Canyon 
Community Council 
News
 Page. 148         
     
Page. 149      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Goal 6.2: Maintain the infrastructure system in good working condition and 
ensure that it meets the needs of current and future residents and visitors.
Objective 6.2.1: Improve the safety, sustainability, and resilience of groundwater resources 
and associated infrastructure.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Establish a working group, at EC Metro’s 
discretion, to address relevant groundwater 
safety, sustainability, and resilience issues, 
including considering green infrastructure 
options.
EC Metro, PC, PDS Strongly 
Encouraged
Staff time Working group 
established, guidelines 
and recommendation 
produced
See also objectives 2.1.2, 
5.2.1
b. Support updating General Plan 
and ordinances as needed to include 
recommendations of working group.
PDS, PC, EC Metro Encouraged Staff time Updates adopted N/A
c. Work with Salt Lake County Public 
Health to geolocate all septic tanks in 
Emigration Canyon Metro Township and 
update data and monitoring systems 
associated with these systems.
PDS, SLCo Public 
Health
Highest Priority Staff time Septic systems 
geolocated, data and 
monitoring systems 
updated
WelSTROM Project
Objective 6.2.2 Maintain the road network in a safe and serviceable condition.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Support maintaining a regularly 
reviewed and prioritized road maintenance 
plan.
Engineering, PDS Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Report on road 
maintenance and 
Capital Improvement 
needs to EC Metro
N/A
b. Annually review roadway needs in a 
Capital Improvement Plan.
Engineering, PDS Highest Priority Staff time
Goal 6.3: Mitigate the effects of climate change, natural disaster risk, and 
other hazards.
Objective 6.3.1: Increase responsible stewardship over energy and resources.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Encourage fire-wise landscaping and land use, 
consistent with recommendations from Utah 
State University and other leaders in wildfire 
preparation.
EC Metro, ECCC, 
PDS
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time # publications and 
outreach
USU
b. Support land use, transportation, and housing 
patterns that encourage energy- efficiency and 
reduce vehicle miles traveled.
PC, EC Metro Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time Project approval 
assessment
Wasatch Choice 2050
c. Support development and adoption of a 
water-wise ordinance.
PDS, EC Metro Highest Priority Staff time Ordinance adopted See also 2.1.2f
d. Develop resources/programs that support 
public education on sustainable resource use, 
wildfire risk, climate change.
PDS, EC Metro Encouraged Staff time # publications and 
outreach
EPA – Tools and 
resources for 
sustainability
Objective 6.3.2: Reduce key hazard risks for Emigration Canyon community members.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Identify sensitive lands prone to hazards and 
support adoption of an ordinance(s) to prohibit 
or restrict development in these areas.
PDS, ECCC, PC, 
EC Metro
Encouraged Staff time Lands identified, 
ordinance adopted
Planning for Hazards 
Resources
b. Work with SLCo health department to identify 
and address high- risk community health 
concerns.
EC Metro, ECCC, 
PDS
Encouraged Staff time # of meetings, 
recommendation ons, 
projects established
SLCo Health 
Department
 Page. 150         
     
Page. 151      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Goal 6.4: Adapt to climate change, natural disaster risk, and other hazards.
Objective 6.4.1: Improve integration of emergency-preparedness in local decision-making, 
community outreach, and planning efforts.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Work with partners to develop a toolkit to help 
households discuss and develop an emergency-
preparedness plan.
UFD, UPD, PDS, 
ECCC
On the horizon Staff time Toolkit developed, 
outreach conducted
FEMA
b. Publish important data, programs, and plans 
related to resilience and hazard mitigation on 
municipal websites and social media pages.
EC Metro, PDS On the horizon Staff time Information published, 
# times accessed
MSD
c. Set aside financial and material resources for 
use in community emergencies as practical.
EC Metro On the horizon Staff time Resources allocated N/A
Objective 6.4.2: Improve communication across all members of the community, including 
those who may be disproportionately affected by a disaster or change.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Support collaboration between essential 
service entities within Emigration Canyon.
EC Metro, PDS Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time # collaborative 
meetings and 
projects
N/A
b. Support coordination of hazard 
communications across a range of platforms.
ECCC, EC Metro High Priority Staff time Hazards 
communication 
methods updated
N/A
c. Develop a plan for digital infrastructure 
to provide faster and more reliable internet 
speeds and access for businesses and 
residents.
PC, ECCC, PDS High Priority Staff, consultant 
time
Plan produced See also Economic 
Development Work 
Program
d. Work with partners to develop resource 
packets specific to needs of potentially 
disproportionately affected people.
PDS, ECCC, UFD, 
UPD
On the horizon Staff time Resources developed, 
outreach conducted
See also 6.4.1a
Goal 6.5: Ensure that all community members enjoy a sense of belonging and 
high levels of social connectedness and trust.
Objective 6.5.1: Improve opportunities for potentially disproportionately affected residents 
to become engaged in community leadership and service, especially planning and decision-
making processes.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Support development of programs to help 
diversify community leadership (e.g. youth 
council)
EC Metro, PDS On the horizon Staff time Programs supported Y outh Council 
Development Guide
b. Establish funding to support participation 
in service for under represented/under served 
groups as practical.
EC Metro, PDS On the horizon Staff time Funding established
Objective 6.5.2: Increase access to spaces where people from diverse backgrounds feel safe 
and welcome to gather, play, organize, and engage with one another.
Actions Lead(s) Priority Cost Metric Resources
a. Support collaboration between active 
community organizations through 
partnership funding.
EC Metro, 
ECCC
Immediate and 
ongoing
Staff time, 
event funding 
($)
# collaborative meetings 
and projects
Utah Funding Directory
b. Conduct a study of viable local park/
open space access interests, needs, 
and future requirements for existing 
communities and new subdivisions.
PDS Highest Priority Staff time Completed study See Land Use Work Program
c. Support community arts & culture 
events that can strengthen the sense of 
community and connection among canyon 
residents.
PC, ECCC High Priority Staff time Support provided See Economic Development 
Work Program
d. Progress local park/open space access 
study recommendations as resources 
become available.
PC, PDS Priority Staff time Recommendations 
incorporated into 
guidelines, ordinances, 
and projects
See Land Use Work Program
 Page. 152         
     
Page. 153      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
e. Conduct annual reviews of Emigration 
Canyon policies and the impacts that they 
have on various communities.
PDS Strongly 
Encouraged
Staff time Review completed, 
report published
N/A
f. Establish a working group, at EC Metro’s 
discretion, of local artists, educators, and 
residents to develop historic markers, edu-
cational signage, and wayfinding signage.
ECCC, PDS Strongly En-
couraged
Staff time Working group estab-
lished
See Land Use Work Program
g. Seek funding to support the establish-
ment of historic markers, educational 
signage, and wayfinding signage.
ECCC, PDS Encouraged Staff time, 
grant match ($)
Grants submitted See Land Use Work Program
h. Increase opportunities for children and 
adults to participate in community educa-
tional events and classes as practical.
EC Metro, 
ECCC
Encouraged Staff time Opportunities developed 
and promoted
N/A
This Page Left Intentionally Blank
 Page. 154         
     
Page. 155      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
REFERENCES
Allen, A. (2003). Environmental planning and management of the peri-urban 
interface: Perspectives on an emerging field. Environment and Urbanization, 
15(1), 135–148. https://doi.org/10.1177/095624780301500103 
Alston, D. G., Davis, R., McAvoy, D., Spears, L. R., Malesky, D., Hebertson, L., & 
Keyes, C. (2018). Balsam Woolly Adelgid—Advanced Fact Sheet (p. 7). Utah 
State University Extension and Utah Plant Pest Diagnostic Laboratory. 
https://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2854&contex-
t=extension_curall 
Barnett, J. A. (1966). Ground-water Hydrology of Emigration Canyon, Salt 
Lake County, Utah [Masters Thesis]. University of Utah.
Best Places. (2020). Emigration Canyon, Utah Climate. Https://Www.Best-
places.Net. https://www.bestplaces.net/climate/city/utah/emigration_canyon 
BIO-WEST , Inc. (2010). Salt Lake City Riparian Corridor Study: Final Emigra-
tion Creek Management Plan. Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities. 
http://www.slcdocs.com/utilities/Stream%20Study%20website/Emigration/
Final/6.%20BASELINE%20ASSESSMENT%20RESULTS.pdf 
Bornstein, M. H., Jager, J., & Putnick, D. L. (2013). Sampling in developmental 
science: Situations, shortcomings, solutions, and standards. Developmental 
Review, 33(4), 357–370. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dr.2013.08.003 
Bowling, T . (2008). Facing Uncertainty: Local Governments and the Precau-
tionary Principle (MASGP 08-020). National Sea Grant Law Center. http://
nsglc.olemiss.edu/Precautionary%20Principle.pdf 
 
Brundtland, G. (1987). Report of the World Commission on Environment and 
Development: Our Common Future (A/42/427). United Nations General As-
sembly. http://www.un-documents.net/our-common-future.pdf 
Carlstrom, J., & Furse, C. (2019). Emigration Canyon: Gateway to Salt Lake 
City (2nd ed.). Lulu Press, Inc.
Duffy, C., & Tappe, A. (2020, May 17). America’s surprising breeding ground 
for inequality: The internet. CNN. https://www.cnn.com/2020/05/17/econo-
my/internet-access-universal-wifi/index.html 
Cooper, T . (2020, June 3). How Much Internet Speed Do I Need? Broadband-
Now. https://broadbandnow.com/guides/how-much-internet-speed-do-i-
need 
Duffy, C., & Tappe, A. (2020, May 17). America’s surprising breeding ground 
for inequality: The internet. CNN. https://www.cnn.com/2020/05/17/econo-
my/internet-access-universal-wifi/index.html
Emigration Canyon Community Council. (2019). Emigration Canyon: Trails 
Working Group. Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council.
Emigration Canyon Metro Township. (2019). 2019 Salt Lake County 
Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan—Jurisdictional Annex: Emigra-
tion Canyon Metro Township. Emigration Canyon Metro Township.
EnviroAtlas. (2014). Fact Sheet: Employment to Housing Ratio. US Environ-
mental Protection Agency. https://enviroatlas.epa.gov/enviroatlas/DataFact-
Sheets/pdf/Supplemental/Employmenthousingratio.pdf 
Epperson, C. (2019). How Did I Get Here? – Follow the Historical Markers. 
Utah Division of State History. https://history.utah.gov/how-did-i-get-here-
follow-the-historical-markers/ 
Esri. (2020). Community Analyst.
Federal Highway Administration. (2000). Road Function Classifications 
[Factsheet]. US Department of Transportation. https://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/
speedmgt/data_facts/docs/rd_func_class_1_42.pdf 
Federal Highway Administration. (2013). Minimizing Excavation Through 
Coordination. https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/policy/otps/policy _brief_dig_once.pdf
Google. (2020). Google Fiber. Google Fiber. https://fiber.google.com/cities/
saltlakecity/
Governor’s Office of Management and Budget. (2020). Life Elevated 2020 
Initiative. https://gomb.utah.gov/life-elevated-2020-initiative/ 
 
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District. (2020a) . Transportation Plan-
ning Principles Workshop Report. 
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, Planning and Development 
Services.
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District. (2020b). Transportation and 
Land Use Survey Report: Draft August 2020. Greater Salt Lake Municipal 
Services District, Planning and Development Services.
Guerry, A.D., Polasky, S., Lubchenco, J., Chaplin-Kramer, R., Daily, G.C., Griffin, 
R., Ruckelshaus, M., Bateman, I.J., Duraiappah, A., Elmqvist, T ., Feldman, M.W., 
Folke, C., Hoekstra, J., Kareiva, P.M., Keeler, B.L., Li, S., McKenzie, E., Ouyang, Z., 
Reyers, B., … Vira, B. (2015). Natural capital and ecosystem services informing 
decisions: From promise to practice. Proceedings of the National Academy of 
Sciences, 112(24), 7348. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1503751112 
Hammond, H. (2002). Ecosystem-based Planning: Principles and Process (p. 
12). The Silva Forest Foundation.
Hansen, D. E. (2018). Hansen Memo 2018. https://echo-association.com/
wp-content/uploads/Hansen-Report-2018-.pdf 
Harris, E. (2019). State and County Population Estimates for Utah: 2019 (p. 
12). Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute, University of Utah. https://gardner.utah.
edu/wp-content/uploads/StateCountyPopEst-Dec2019.pdf 
Hegel, J., & Wilding, J. (2019). Disconnected: Seven Lessons on Fixing the 
Digital Divide. Community Affairs Department of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Kansas City. https://www.kansascityfed.org/community/~/media/31d-
c7512db164fce8ae79ec7709924fd.ashx 
 
Hubbard-Rice, M. (2015). Section 319 Non-point Source Pollution 
Control Program—Assessment/Planning Project Final Report—Emi-
gration Implementation Project. https://www.utahcleanwater.org/up-
loads/4/7/2/2/47227279/emigration_implementation_final_report_
v3_2009_.pdf 
Irvin, R. A., & Stansbury, J. (2004). Citizen Participation in Decision Making: 
Is It Worth the Effort? Public Administration Review, 64(1), 55–65. https://doi.
org/10.1111/j.1540-6210.2004.00346.x 
Kamal, M. A. (2011). Development vs growth [Education]. https://www.slide-
share.net/farha451288/development-vs-growth-l9 
Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. (2016). U.S. Census Bureau 2015 Popula-
tion Estimates: Utah. Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute, University of Utah. 
https://gardner.utah.edu/wp-content/uploads/May-Census-Estimates-Fact-
Sheet-V21.pdf 
Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. (2020). The Utah Roadmap: Positive Solu-
tions on Climate and Air Quality (p. 24). Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute, 
University of Utah.
Kostopulos Dream Foundation. (2019). Kostopulos Dream Foundation: About 
Us. Camp K. http://www.campk.org/about/ 
Kriebel, D., Tickner, J., Epstein, P., Lemons, J., Levins, R., Loechler, E.L., Quinn, M., 
Rudel, R., Schettler, T ., & Stoto, M. (2001). The precautionary principle in envi-
ronmental science. Environmental Health Perspectives, 109(9), 871–876.
Lochner. (2016). Emigration Canyon Transportation Study. Salt Lake County 
Townships.
 
Maffly, B. (2020, January 28). Salt Lake City’s air quality is nation’s 7th worst 
among large metro areas. The Salt Lake Tribune. https://www.sltrib.com/
news/environment/2020/01/28/salt-lake-citys-air/ 
Master, C. (n.d.). GUIDELINES FOR APPLYING THE PRECAUTIONARY 
PRINCIPLE. 11.
McFarland, S. (2013, September 5). The 10 best stargazing spots in Utah. The 
Salt Lake Tribune. https://archive.sltrib.com/article.php?id=56740305&i-
type=cmsid
O’Donoghue, A. J. (2019a, January 2).  Emigration Canyon and groundwa-
ter pumping in Utah: What’s at risk? Deseret News. https://www.deseret.
com/2019/1/2/20662500/emigration-canyon-and-groundwater-pumping-
in-utah-what-s-at-risk 
O’Donoghue, A. J. (2019b, January 18). District’s water diversion will continue 
in Emigration Canyon. https://www.ksl.com/article/46471323/districts-wa-
ter-diversion-will-continue-in-emigration-canyon 
Partnership for Sustainable Communities. (2011). Supporting Sustainable 
Rural Communities (p. 52). United States Department of Agriculture. https://
www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/documents/2011_11_supporting-sus-
tainable-rural-communities.pdf 
Ramsey, R.D., & West, N.E. (2009). Vegetation of Utah. In Rangeland Resourc-
es of Utah (2nd ed.). Utah State University Cooperative Extension Service. 
https://extension.usu.edu/rangelands/ou-files/RRU _Final.pdf 
Red Butte Canyon Research Natural Area. (n.d.-a).  Avian Fauna. Retrieved 
October 24, 2020, from https://redbuttecanyon.net/avian.html 
Red Butte Canyon Research Natural Area. (n.d.-b). Mammalian Fauna. Re-
trieved October 24, 2020, from https://redbuttecanyon.net/mammalian.html 
Salt Lake City. (2020, August). Pilot Program Offers Access To Inter -
net, Computers for Rose Park Residents. SLC.Gov. https://www.slc.gov/
blog/2020/08/04/pilot-program-offers-access-to-internet-comput-
ers-for-rose-park-residents/
 Page. 156         
     
Page. 157      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Salt Lake Community College Libraries. (2020). Wi-Fi Hotspots FAQ. Salt 
Lake Community College Libraries. https://libweb.slcc.edu/wi-fi-hotspots-faq
Salt Lake Conservation District. (2013). Salt Lake County Resource Assess-
ment. Salt Lake Conservation District. https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/wps/portal/
nrcs/detail/ut/technical/dma/nri/?cid=nrcs141p2_034123 
Salt Lake County. (2012). Emigration Canyon Township General Plan. http://
www.emigrationcanyon.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/EmigrationGen-
Plan-FINAL-Adopted2012.pdf 
Salt Lake County. (2017). Salt Lake County Resource Management Plan. Salt 
Lake County. https://le.utah.gov/interim/2017/pdf/00005018.pdf 
Salt Lake County Emergency Management. (2019). 2019 Salt Lake County 
Hazard Mitigation Plan Jurisdictional Annexes.
Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation. (2007). Emigration Canyon Trails 
Master Plan. Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation.
Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services. (1999). Emigration 
Canyon Township General Plan.
Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services. http://www.emi-
grationcanyon.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/1999-Emigration-Can-
yon-General-Plan.pdf 
Salt Lake County Regional Development. (2020). Wasatch Canyons General 
Plan Update (p. 202). Salt Lake County Regional Development. https://slco.
org/planning-transportation/wasatch-canyons-general-plan-update/
Salt Lake County Watershed Planning & Restoration. (2015). 2015 Salt Lake 
County Integrated Watershed Plan. Salt Lake County Watershed Planning & 
Restoration. https://slco.org/globalassets/1-site-files/watershed/2015_slco_
integratedwatershedplan_revsep2017.pdf 
Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity. (2004). The Ecosystem 
Approach. Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity. https://www.
cbd.int/doc/publications/ea-text-en.pdf 
Semerad, T . (2020, June 10). University of Utah plans major revamp of re-
search park on Foothill Drive, adding lots of housing. The Salt Lake Tribune. 
https://www.sltrib.com/news/2020/06/09/dense-walkable-amenity/ 
Simmons, L. (2019, August 13). Springfield City Utilities partnering with 
CenturyLink to expand high speed internet access. Https://Www.Ky3.Com. 
https://www.ky3.com/content/news/Springfield-City-Utilities-partner-
ing-with-CenturyLink-to-expand-high-speed-internet-access-540397691.
html
Slottach-Ratcliff, L., & Cowgill, J. (2015). Wayfinding Plan for the City of 
Victoria. City of Victoria. https://conservancy.umn.edu/bitstream/han-
dle/11299/184921/RCP-12a_PA-5511_report.pdf?sequence=3&isAl-
lowed=y 
Smart Growth America, & National Complete Streets Coalition. (2015). Com-
plete Streets: Changing Policy.
Tomer, A., Fishbane, L., Siefer, A., & Callahan, B. (2020, February 26). Digital 
prosperity: How broadband can deliver health and equity to all communities. 
The Brookings Institution. https://www.brookings.edu/research/digital-pros-
perity-how-broadband-can-deliver-health-and-equity-to-all-communities/ 
Stimac, V . (2018, July 21). The 21 Best Places for Stargazing in Salt Lake City. 
Space Tourism Guide. https://spacetourismguide.com/best-places-stargaz-
ing-salt-lake-city/
Tomer, A., Fishbane, L., Siefer, A., & Callahan, B. (2020, February 26). Digital 
prosperity: How broadband can deliver health and equity to all communities. 
The Brookings Institution. https://www.brookings.edu/research/digital-pros-
perity-how-broadband-can-deliver-health-and-equity-to-all-communities/
Transfer of Public Lands Act, 63L-6–102 Utah Code (2012). https://
le.utah.gov/xcode/Title63L/Chapter6/63L-6-S102.html?v=-
C63L-6-S102_1800010118000101
United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs. (2009). Rural 
Development: United Nations Sustainable Development Knowledge Platform. 
https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/topics/ruraldevelopment/decisions 
US Census Bureau. (2010). American Community Survey 2010-2014 5- Y ear 
Estimates. United States Census Bureau. https://www.census.gov/pro-
grams-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/table-and-geography-chang-
es/2014/5-year.html 
US Census Bureau. (2017). OnTheMap Emigration Canyon. https://onthe-
map.ces.census.gov/
US Census Bureau. (2019) . American Community Survey 2014-2018 5- Y ear 
Estimates. United States Census Bureau. https://www.census.gov/newsroom/
press-releases/2019/acs-5-year.html 
US Environmental Protection Agency. (2016). What Climate Change 
Means for Utah (p. 2). US Environmental Protection Agency. https://19janu-
ary2017snapshot.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2016-09/documents/cli-
mate-change-ut.pdf 
US Forest Service. (n.d.-a) . Invasive Species. Retrieved November 2, 2020, 
from https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/invasive-species 
US Forest Service. (2003). Revised Forest Plan Wasatch-Cache National 
Forest. United States Department of Agriculture. https://www.fs.usda.gov/In-
ternet/FSE_DOCUMENTS/stelprdb5347083.pdf 
US Geological Survey. (2000). Ecoregions of Utah front [Map]. https://store.
usgs.gov/assets/MOD/StoreFiles/Ecoregion/112579_ut_front.pdf
US National Park Service. (n.d.). Rocky Mountain System Provinces. Retrieved 
November 2, 2020, from https://www.nps.gov/articles/rockies.htm 
 
Utah Code. Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, 10-
9a–401 Utah Code § Section 401 General plan required (2019). https://
le.utah.gov/xcode/Title10/Chapter9A/10-9a-S401.html?v=C10-9a
-S401_2019051420190514 
 
Utah Code. Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, 10-
9a–403 Utah Code § Section 403 General plan preparation (2020). https://
le.utah.gov/xcode/Title10/Chapter9A/10-9a-S403.html?v=C10-9a
-S403_2020051220200512 
Utah Department of Environmental Quality. (2011). TMDL for Escherichia 
coli (E. coli) in the Upper Emigration Creek Watershed. https://documents.deq.
utah.gov/water-quality/watershed-protection/total-maximum-daily-loads/
DWQ-2015-006579.pdf 
Utah Department of Transportation. (2020). UDOT - Keeping Utah Moving. 
UDOT . https://www.udot.utah.gov/connect/ 
Utah Department of Workforce Services. (2018). An Introduction to General 
Planning: Guidance and Best Practices for Local Leaders. http://www.ru-
ralplanning.org/assets/general-plan-guide.pdf 
Utah Geological Survey. (n.d.). Geologic Guide to the Central Wasatch Front 
Canyons. Utah Geological Survey. Retrieved November 2, 2020, from http://
www.emigrationcanyon.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/pi-87-Utah-Geo-
logic-Survey-Canyon-Geology.pdf 
Utah Office of Tourism. (2020). 10 Cycling Routes Chosen by Utah Cyclists | 
Visit Utah. https://www.visitutah.com/articles/10-top-roads-for-cyclists/ 
Utah State University Extension. (n.d.). Rivers and Streams. Water Quality. 
Retrieved November 2, 2020, from https://extension.usu.edu/waterquality/
learnaboutsurfacewater/watersheds/riversandstreams/index 
Utah Transit Authority. (2020). Mission and Vision. UTA. https://www.rideuta.
com/About-UTA/Mission-and-Vision 
Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2018a).  Comprehensive Economic Devel-
opment Strategy: 2018-2023. https://wfrc.org/Committees/WFEDDStrate-
gy/2019/04_May20/CEDS_2018_2023_Final_Draft_5.15.19.pdf 
Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2018b). Utah Statewide Annual Average 
Daily Traffic (AADT)—Historic and Forecast. https://wfrc.org/traffic-vol-
ume-map/ 
Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2018c, December 17). Salt Lake 
County Land Use Parcels. WFRC Open Data Content. https://data.
wfrc.org/datasets/salt-lake-county-land-use-parcels?geome-
try=-113.214,40.486,-110.601,40.851 
Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2019a ). Access to Opportunities. https://
wfrc.org/maps-data/access-to-opportunities/ 
 
Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2019b). Active Transportation GIS 
Data Resources—Future AT Network. https://wfrc.maps.arcgis.com/apps/
MapSeries/index.html?appid=87827ba730d44a09aeeae83a8f9dc43e 
Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2019c). Wasatch Choice Map—Economic 
Development. https://wfrc.org/wasatch-choice-map/#mapList=vision.trans-
portation.landuse.econdev.recreation.ato&scale=72224&selectedMap=econ-
dev&sideBarClosed=true&x=-12440110&y=4977622 
Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2019d). Wasatch Choice Map—Transpor-
tation. https://wfrc.org/wasatch-choice-map/#mapList=vision.transporta-
tion.landuse.econdev.recreation.ato&selectedMap=vision&sideBarClosed=-
false 
Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2019e). Wasatch Choice Regional Vision. 
Wasatch Front Regional Council. https://wfrc.org/vision-plans/wasatch-
choice-2050/
West Point City. (2019a). West Point City Fiber Project with UTOPIA Fi-
ber—FAQ. West Point City. https://westpointcity.org/wp-content/up-
loads/2020/01/FAQ-UTOPIA-Fiber-11.2019-on-letterhead.pdf
West Point City. (2019b). West Point City Council Agenda. West Point City. 
https://westpointcity.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/2019-05-21-Agen-
 Page. 158         
     
Page. 159      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Figures
Figure 1.2:  The general planning process shown with 
involved parties (adapted from Utah Department of 
Workforce Services, 2018).  ‑ Page. 14
Figure 1.3: Key statistics for Emigration Canyon 
(Esri, 2020).  ‑ Page. 17
Figure 1.5:  Emigration Canyon Metro T ownship 
General Plan Steering Committee SWOT (strengths, 
weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) analysis. This 
analysis informs the goals and objectives associated 
with each element (for details see Chapter 7 and the 
Work Programs for each chapter). ‑ Page. 24
Figure 1.6:  Emigration Canyon Metro T ownship 
General Plan Steering Committee APAE (achieve, 
preserve, avoid, and eliminate) analysis. While the 
SWOT analysis helps a community assess its assets 
and challenges, the APAE analysis forms the basis for 
the plan of action to ensure desired future outcomes 
(for details see Chapter 7 and the Work Programs for 
each chapter).  ‑ Page. 25
Figure 1.7:  Emigration Canyon resident responses 
to the Land Use and Transportation Survey question 
“How important are the following items in terms of 
development in your area?” ‑ Page. 27
Figure 2.1: Lands held under easements by Utah 
Open Lands Conservation Association.  
              ‑ Page. 35
Figure 2.3: Current Land Use in Emigration Canyon.
 ‑ Page. 39
Figure 2.2: Public/Private Land Ownership in 
Emigration Canyon. ‑ Page. 41
Figure 2.4: Current zoning for Emigration Canyon. 
See Figures 2.10 and 2.11 for details on commercial 
zoning. ‑ Page. 43
Figure 2.5: Ridgeline protection areas in Emigration 
Canyon.  ‑ Page. 44
Figure 2.6: Residential and Commercially 
Developed Areas. See Figures 2.7 and 2.8 for details 
on commercial zoning. ‑ Page. 45
Figure 2.7: Commercial Zones near Ruth’s Diner. 
Please note that the largest commercially zoned 
parcel  shown is under a conservation easement 
and therefore is not available for commercial 
development. Updates to zoning ordinances that will 
reflect this change are included in the Community 
Work Program at the end of this chapter and also in 
Chapter 7 .   ‑ Page. 46
Figure 2.8: Commercial Zones near former Sun & 
Moon Cafe. ‑ Page. 47
Figure 2.9: Future Land Use and Character Areas 
Map for Emigration Canyon. ‑ Page. 49
Figure 2.10: Vacant lot and slope constraints in the 
Main Canyon Corridor Character Area. According to 
WFRC’s Land Use Inventory (Wasatch Front Regional 
Council, 2018c), there are 86 vacant lots totaling 
294.871 Acres in the Main Canyon Corridor Character 
Area. The buildability of many of these lots is limited 
by a range of constraints, including large proportions 
of the land that have a greater than 35% slope, as 
shown in this figure.  ‑ Page. 51
Figure 2.11: Vacant lots and slope constraints in 
the Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area. According to 
WFRC’s Land Use Inventory (Wasatch Front Regional 
Council, 2018c), there are 78 vacant lots totaling 
488.832 Acres in the Maryfield/Pioneer Character 
Area. The buildability of some of these lots is limited 
by a range of constraints, including large proportions 
of the land that have a greater than 35% slope, as 
shown in this figure.   ‑ Page. 53
Figure 2.12: Vacant lots and slope constraints in 
the Pinecrest/Killyons Character Area. According to 
WFRC’s Land Use Inventory (Wasatch Front Regional 
Council, 2018c), there are 51 vacant lots totaling 
22.909 Acres in the Pinecrest/Killyons Character 
Area. The buildability of many of these lots is 
extremely limited by a range of constraints, including 
large proportions of the land that have a greater than 
35% slope, as shown in this figure.   ‑ Page. 55
Figure 3.1: UDOT core values (Utah Department of 
Transportation, 2020).  ‑ Page. 63
Figure 3.2: Wasatch Choice 2050 goals (Wasatch 
Front Regional Council, 2019e). ‑ Page. 64
Figure 3.3: T op transportation values identified by 
participants at Transportation Planning Workshop 
(for details see section 1.4 and Appendix B).  
 ‑ Page. 66
Figure 3.3.1: Emigration Canyon Transportation 
and Traffic Circulation Map.  
Figure 3.4: Transportation concerns marked as 
either “very important” or “important” by percentage 
of survey respondents. ‑ Page. 67
Figure 3.5: Emigration Canyon Transportation and 
Traffic Circulation Map.   ‑ Page. 69
Figure 3.6: Accident data for Emigration Canyon 
from 2010‑2020 reveals the highest density of 
accidents is at the intersection between Emigration 
Canyon Road and Pioneer Fork (out of 116 total 
incidents reported in that time). The focus of 
accidents in this area is consistent with previous work 
(Lochner, 2016, Fig. 3).   ‑ Page. 71
Figure 3.7: Share of Emigration Canyon residents 
employed by location. Source: OntheMap Data, 2017 .
 ‑ Page. 73
LIST OF FIGURES AND TABLES 
Figure 3.8: Emigration Canyon Traffic Growth 
Projections 2017 to 2050. Source: (Wasatch Front 
Regional Council, 2018b). ‑ Page. 75
Figure 4.1: Demographic Profile of Emigration 
Canyon (Esri, 2020). ‑ Page. 86
Figure 5.1:  Emigration Creek Subwatersheds 
(Hubbard‑Rice, 2015, pg. 3). ‑ Page. 101
Figure 5.2:  Average E. coli data for various 
monitoring locations along Emigration Creek  (Salt 
Lake County Watershed Planning & Restoration, 
2015, Figure 3‑34). ‑ Page. 102
Figure 5.3:  Key historical locations in Emigration 
Canyon (Epperson, 2019).   ‑ Page. 104
Figure 6.1: The General Plan Steering Committee 
demonstrating their resilience by moving to online 
meetings when the COVID‑19 pandemic made it too 
risky to continue in‑person meetings. ‑ Page. 111
Figure 6.2: Wildfire risk for Emigration Canyon. 
Source: (Emigration Canyon Metro T ownship, 2019).
 ‑ Page. 118
Figure 6.3: Landslide Susceptibility and Incident 
Impact Potential. Source: (Emigration Canyon Metro 
T ownship, 2019). ‑ Page. 119
Figure 6.4: Unreinforced masonry in Emigration 
Canyon. Source: Salt Lake County Emergency 
Management T eam.  ‑ Page. 124
T ables
T able 1.1:  Advantages of citizen participation 
government decision making, adapted from Irvin & 
Stanbury, 2004. ‑ Page. 23
T able 2.1: Zone Classification Source: Emigration 
Canyon Code, 2020. ‑ Page. 42
T able 2.2 (above): Main Canyon Corridor Character 
Area Zoning Summary. ‑ Page. 50
T able 2.3 (right): Main Canyon Corridor Character 
Area Land Use Summary data from WFRC’s Land Use 
Inventory (Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2018c).  
                ‑ Page. 50
T able 2.4: Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area Land 
Use Summary data from WFRC’s Land Use Inventory 
(Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2018c)  .
 ‑ Page. 52
T able 2.5: Maryfield/Pioneer Character Area Zoning 
Summary. ‑ Page. 52
T able 2.6: Pinecrest/Killyons Character Area Land 
Use Summary data from WFRC’s Land Use Inventory 
(Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2018c).   
 ‑ Page. 54
T able 2.7: Pinecrest/Killyons Character Zoning 
Summary.  ‑ Page. 54
T able 2.8: Open Space Character Area Land Use 
Summary data from WFRC’s Land Use Inventory 
(Wasatch Front Regional Council, 2018c).   
                  ‑ Page. 56
T able 2.9: Open Space Character Area Zoning. 
 ‑ Page. 56
T able 3.1: Functional classes of streets in Emigration 
Canyon.   ‑ Page. 70
T able 3.2: 2017 AADT Data retrieved from UDOT. 
Source: Esri Community Maps Contributors, County 
of Salt Lake, Utah AGRC, Esri, HERE, Garmin, 
SafeGraph, INCREMENT P, METI/NASA, USGS, 
Bureau of Land Management, EPA, NPS, US Census 
Bureau, USDA.          ‑ Page. 72
T able 3.3: Commuting Modes ‑ Page. 73
T able 4.1 (at left): Age ranges, current and projected, 
for Emigration Canyon (Esri Business Analyst, 2018)  
                ‑ Page. 85
T able 4.2: Current business and employees based 
in Emigration Canyon. ‑ Page. 87
T able 6.1: Key community programs or events 
that contribute to social cohesion and community 
resilience in Emigration Canyon. ‑ Page. 116
T able 6.2: Key Social Factors to Consider in 
Resilience Planning, from (Emigration Canyon Metro 
T ownship, 2019) *Poverty levels and all other data 
from the US Census Bureau American Community 
Survey, 2017 .    ‑ Page. 117
T able 6.3: Health factors that can complicate access 
to social networks and reduce mobility. Source: Salt 
Lake County Health Department Community Health 
Data Dashboard (Healthy Salt Lake, 2020).   
                    ‑ Page. 117
T able 6.4: Broadband details for Emigration 
Canyon. ‑ Page. 125
T able 6.5: The options included in this table could 
potentially expand fiber ‑internet access to more 
Emigration Canyon residents, thus improving 
community resilience. This table is included 
for reference  only and does not represent an 
endorsement of any of the products or services 
mentioned.  ‑ Page. 127
 Page. 160         
     
Page. 161      
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
Emigration Canyon General Plan 2022
APPENDIX A-L:
For Complete Appendix A-L See: bit.ly/lrp-ec
Appendix A: Glossary of Terms                          2  
Appendix B: Transportation Planning Principles Workshop Report                                    5
Appendix C: Transportation and Land Use Survey Report                                   13
Appendix D: Emigration Canyon Metro Township: Technical Assessment                                  73 
Appendix E: Emigration Canyon Transportation Study                                  115
Appendix F: Regional Economic Development Conditions                                                 253
Appendix G: Wasatch Canyons General Plan                           257
Appendix H: Emigration Canyon Trails Master Plan                          459
Appendix I: Emigration Canyon Community Council Trails Working Group Presentation                                  498
Appendix J: Emigration Canyon Neighborhood Descriptions                   578
Appendix K: Vegetation in Emigration Canyon                    582
Appendix L: Emigration Township Wildlife Habitat                    583
This Page Left Intentionally Blank