KEARNS GENERAL PLAN
Prepared for Kearns Metro Township, 2020
CONTENTSACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Introduction
General Plan Overview . . . . . . . . . . 8
Using This Document . . . . . . . . . . 9
General Plan Process . . . . . . . . . . 10
Important T erms . . . . . . . . . . 12
Data Collection . . . . . . . . . . 12
Community Input . . . . . . . . . . 14
Who Are We?. . . . . . . . . .  18
The Future We Choose . . . . . . . . . . 19
Land Use
What’ s Included in the Land Use  -
Chapter? . . . . . . . . . . 22
Land Use and Build Out. . . . . . . . . .  22
Kearns Land Use Inventory. . . . . . . . . .  24
Zoning Classifications. . . . . . . . . .  27
Access to Daily Needs. . . . . . . . . .  28
Community Input. . . . . . . . . .  30
Map of Future Land Uses and Character -
Areas. . . . . . . . . .  34
The Core Character Areas. . . . . . . . . .  36
The Neighborhood Residential Character - 
Areas. . . . . . . . . .  72
The Supplementary Character Areas 82
Community Work Program 84
T ransportation
What’ s in the Kearns T ransportation  -
Element? . . . . . . . . . .  98
Who Plays What Role?. . . . . . . . . .  98
Existing Conditions. . . . . . . . . .  100
Engaging the Community. . . . . . . . . .  102
Street Classifications and Level of -
Service . . . . . . . . . . 106
T raffic Load and Speeds. . . . . . . . . .  108
Future Roadway Conditions. . . . . . . . . .  110
T raffic Safety. . . . . . . . . .  112
Public T ransportation and Major T ransit -
Investment Corridors. . . . . . . . . .  114
Active T ransportation. . . . . . . . . .  116
ADA Compliance. . . . . . . . . .  118
Resident T ransportation Patterns and -
Preferences. . . . . . . . . .  120
Drawing from Other Plans. . . . . . . . . .  122
Planned Roadway Expansion -
Projects. . . . . . . . . .  124
Moving Forward. . . . . . . . . .  126
Community Work Program. . . . . . . . . .  127
Economic Development
Why Plan for Economic - 
Development?. . . . . . . . . .  136
Existing Local and Regional Economic -
Development Plans. . . . . . . . . .  138
Existing Conditions: Regional. . . . . . . . . .  140
Existing Conditions: Local. . . . . . . . . .  144
Kearns’ Spending Patterns. . . . . . . . . .  146
Leakage and Surplus. . . . . . . . . .  148
Access to Broadband and Other Digital  -
Infrastructure. . . . . . . . . .  150
Resident-Desired Economic  -
Development. . . . . . . . . .  152
Big T akeaways: Local Opportunities,  -
Advantages, and Challenges. . . . . . . . . .  156
Community Work Program. . . . . . . . . .  158
Appendix . . . . . . . . . . 162
Kearns Metro T ownship Planning Commission / 
General Plan Steering Committee
Jerry Wellman (Chair)
Joy Nelson (Vice-Chair)
Kim Barbushev
Nathan Bush
Chris Collard
Joe Hatch
Laura Koester
David T aylor
Patrick Schaffer
Roger Snow
Kearns Metro T ownship Council
Kelly Bush (Chair/Mayor) 
Tina Snow (Vice Chair/Deputy Mayor)
Chrystal Butterfield (Council Member) 
Al Peterson (Council Member) 
Patrick Schaeffer (Council Member) 
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Bart Barker (General Manager)
Brian Hartsell (Associate General Manager)
Lupita McClenning (Director of Planning and Development Services)
Kayla Mauldin (Long Range Planner)
Mikala Jordan (Long Range Planner)
Kate Davies (Senior Long Range Planner)
Jim McNulty (Planning Manager)
Wendy Gurr (Planning Coordinator)
Alex Rudowski (G.I.S. Analyst)
T ravis Hair (Planner II)
Maridene Alexander (Communications Manager)
Other Partners
T odd Andersen (Municipal Economic Development Coordinator, Salt Lake County)
Nathan Bracken (Attorney, Smith Hartvigsen)
Madeline Francisco-Galang (T ransportation Engineering Manager, Salt Lake County)
Thomas McMurtry (Planner, Avenue Consultants)
All Participating Members of the Public Cover Photo: Profile of the Utah Olympic Oval (photo credit: Kayla Mauldin, 2020).
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Context: The 2020 General Plan is the first general 
plan for Kearns since the Municipality incorporated 
as a Metro T ownship in 2017 . The Plan synthesizes 
data and public feedback to assess current conditions, 
formulate a future vision, and prepare a work program 
for navigating from the current state to the desired 
future state.  In this Plan, readers will find information 
about the planning process and context, methods of 
data collection and public engagement, three topical 
elements—land use, transportation, and economic 
development—and a work program tailored toward 
each element. 
Existing Conditions: Kearns developed as a post-
war bedroom community, located approximately 13 
miles southwest of Salt Lake City. The Municipality 
boasts over 36,800 residents, with 36% identifying as 
Hispano or Latino and a median age of just 30.3. This 
makes Kearns one of the youngest and most diverse 
populations in all of Salt Lake County.
Land is used primarily for residential purposes, with 
51.2% of Kearns’ 4.8 square miles being dedicated 
to single-family residential uses. Kearns’ landmarks 
include Oquirrh Park and the Utah Olympic Oval 
located in the heart of the Municipality, the Camp 
Kearns Industrial Area (referred to later in this Plan as 
the Warehouse District), and the commercial cluster 
at the intersection of 5400 S and 4015 W (proposed 
for redevelopment as the future Kearns T own Center). 
The Municipality is almost entirely built out, with only 21 
acres left to be developed.
Kearns benefits from exceptional access to regional 
destinations. The Municipality is adjacent to both 
Mountain View Corridor and Bangerter Highway, with 
service to Salt Lake City International Airport and the 
coming Inland Port. Six UTA bus routes service the 
area, many with 15-minute frequency. However, the 
majority of residents still commute to work by private 
automobile. Walking and biking are made difficult by 
Kearns’ Cul-de-sac street pattern and a lack of active 
transportation infrastructure. Although sidewalks exist 
throughout the Municipality, conditions are poor in 
several locations, and the Savage Services Corporation 
rail line that cuts through the middle of Kearns creates 
significant pedestrian barriers.
Kearns’ civilian labor force is estimated at 19,932. There 
are approximately 240 businesses in the Municipality, 
supplying 3,416 jobs. Most residents must commute 
outside of the community for work. Residents are 
employed most often in Service and Manufacturing 
Industries. At $62,370, the median household income 
in Kearns is lower than in the County. 
Key Strengths and Challenges: The community’ s key 
strengths are its diverse population, its commitment 
to supporting families and building strong residential 
neighborhoods, and its location within the Salt Lake 
Valley. Kearns also benefits from a rich history, including 
both the former Camp Kearns and the 2002 Olympic 
games. Core challenges include transportation barriers 
created by the street network and railroad, lack of 
sales-tax generating commercial properties, and low 
educational attainment and opportunities for job 
training and growth.
A Way Forward: This Plan addresses those 
challenges by leveraging existing assets, planning 
future development around unique ‘Character Areas’, 
integrating local and regional planning efforts, and 
seeking to establish creative partnerships. Kearns 
developed this vision statement to guide the way 
forward for future planning initiatives and decision-
making:
“Kearns is a community of diverse 
individuals and families dedicated 
to health, safety, quality education, 
economic opportunity, environmental 
sustainability, sincere friendship, service 
to others, pursuit of happiness, and 
finding pleasure in activities for all ages. 
The Kearns community celebrates its 
military and Olympic history and takes 
responsibility for the future by fostering 
a strong sense of shared identity. T o 
support a high quality of life for all 
residents, Kearns promotes shared 
decision-making regarding housing, 
transportation, environment and 
economic growth.”
This vision statement is further supported by actions 
included in the Community Work Programs in each 
of the Land Use, T ransportation, and Economic 
Development chapters of this General Plan. This Plan is 
intended to guide Kearns forward for the next five years, 
after which point the Plan will be re-evaluated to ensure 
that it continues to meet the needs of the community. 
Thank you to all the elected officials, community 
leaders, and members of the public who made this 
Plan possible. 
Families gather to celebrate Easter in Kearns. (Photo credit: Kearns 
Community Council, 2019).
Kearns General Plan 6 7
INTRODUCTION
A view of the Oquirrh Mountains from Kearns. Photo Credit: Kayla Mauldin, 2020.  
Kearns General Plan 8
Is a General Plan Required? General Plan Overview
Utah State Code Section 10-9a-401 requires every 
county and municipality to have a long-range general 
plan in order to provide for the health, safety, and welfare 
of each community and its residents. Section 10-9a-
403 of the code outlines the components that can be 
included in a general plan. Land use and transportation 
elements are required for all counties and municipalities. 
Many additional elements are also frequently included 
in general plans. Such sections may cover housing, 
economic development, infrastructure, natural hazards 
and resilience, or the environment. 
Land Use: “The General Plan shall designate the long-
term goals and the proposed extent, general distribution, 
and location of land for housing, business, industry, 
agriculture, recreation, education, public buildings and 
grounds, open space, and other categories of public and 
private uses of land as appropriate; and may include 
a statement of the projections for and standards of 
population density and building intensity recommended 
for the various land use categories covered by the plan.” 
T ransportation: “The General Plan shall provide a 
transportation and traffic circulation element consisting 
of the general location and extent of existing and 
proposed freeways, arterial and collector streets, mass 
transit, and any other modes of transportation that 
the planning commission considers appropriate, all 
correlated with the population projections and the 
proposed land use element of the general plan.” 
Moderate Income Housing: “The General Plan shall 
include a plan that provides a realistic opportunity to 
meet the need for additional moderate-income housing.” 
(*Metro townships with populations less than 5,000 
people are excluded from this requirement.) 
A General Plan is a document that guides future development 
in a place. Through the planning process, existing conditions 
are examined, desired future conditions are established, 
and a path is laid out to bring a community from its present 
state to its envisioned future. Decision-makers, residents, 
and other stakeholders can and should use the General 
Plan to coordinate and implement decisions about land use, 
infrastructure, parks, recreation and open space, city services, 
housing supply and affordability, and other public resources. 
As such, a General Plan is a living, fluid document that should 
be regularly reviewed and updated.    
Why  Make a  General  Plan?
Municipalities make plans for many reasons. The main purpose 
of a General Plan is to aid a community in defining and 
achieving its desired future. More specifically, municipalities 
make General Plans because: 
• Plans strengthen community autonomy; by establishing 
a community vision, priorities, and goals, communities 
avoid change “just happening” to them. 
• Plans enhance decision-making: syncing data, local 
knowledge, and on-the-ground conditions enable 
decisions to be comprehensively informed. 
• With plans, communities can bolster strengths, achieve 
goals, minimize and re-solve problems, and prevent 
threats. 
• Through the establishment of common goals, the planning 
process brings together various community members. 
• Utah State Code 10-9a-401 requires each municipality in 
Utah to prepare a General Plan.
“Cities have the capability of providing something 
for everybody , only because, and only when, they 
are created by everybody.”
- Jane Jacobs (The Death and Life of Great American Cities, 1961)Throughout the General Plan, 
look to these boxes to 
understand how community 
input informed plan content. Boxes 
may include quotes, survey results, or 
other information from community 
engagement events.
Chapter 1 - Introduction
9
Planning  Authority
Kearns became an independent municipality with its own 
governing authority by a vote of the residents of Kearns in 2015. 
Incorporation took place in 2017 . The Municipality is governed 
by an elected legislative council, one of whom is selected by the 
others to be the Mayor. The Mayor, at the time of this writing 
– Kelly Bush, is the chief executive officer of the Municipality.  
Kearns has all the municipal powers allocated by the Utah 
Municipal Code with the exception of certain powers of 
taxation. The Municipality does not have the power to enact a 
property tax or municipal energy taxes.  
The Metro T ownship Council has the authority to enact laws 
and ordinances to carry out its responsibilities, including land 
use and development regulations (zoning) as long as these 
laws and ordinances are consistent with the Utah Municipal 
Code and other state statutes.  
The Municipality is a member of the Greater Salt Lake 
Municipal Services District (“MSD”). The MSD provides the 
Municipality with planning and development services as part 
of its membership agreement. The Kearns Metro T ownship 
Council appoints a Planning Commission and a General Plan 
Steering Committee to work with District Long Range Planners 
on the development of Kearns’ General Plan. The General 
Plan Steering Committee and Planning Commission make 
recommendations to the Council regarding the adoption and 
amendment of the General Plan. The Council can adopt, 
reject, or revise a recommended General Plan. 
Using This Document
This plan is divided into four chapters that express the vision 
and a plan forward for Kearns. T ogether, these chapters 
build a foundation from which the Municipality can adopt 
programs and policies to improve the quality of life for its 
residents.
Chapter 1: Introduction – this chapter introduces the 
“when, why, and how?” of the General Plan. It explains 
the need for a General Plan, State Code Requirements, 
and the methodology used to prepare this Plan for 
Kearns.
Chapter 2: Land Use – how is our land currently used? 
How are land uses changing? And how should land be 
used in the future to meet our needs and desires? . This 
chapter is required by State Code, and includes the 
Future Land Use Map.
Chapter 3: T ransportation – can residents effectively 
access their daily needs using the transportation system? 
How are our transportation patterns changing? And 
how will we respond?. This chapter is required by State 
Code, and considers street classifications, regional 
planning projects, and Major T ransit Investment 
Corridors.
Chapter 4: Economic Development - what is the 
state of the local economy? What regional trends are 
impacting our market? How can we sieze economic 
opportunities? This chapter is not required by State 
Code, but is important for ensuring the future success 
and financial sustainability of the Municipality.
Each Chapter of the Plan includes an analysis of existing 
conditions related to that topic, a description of the 
community’ s feedback regarding the topic (look for speech 
bubbles), an explanation of underlying planning concepts 
(look for dark green panels), and the community’ s vision and 
goals related to that topic. Although subjects are divided 
into distinct chapters in this General Plan, they remain tightly 
interwoven, so that common themes emerge across Land 
Use, T ransportation, and Economic Development Chapters. 
At the end of each Chapter, a Work Program is included 
that provides a detailed outline of how the Municipality will 
achieve its envisioned future.
Figure 1-1: Community leaders participate in the MSD 
T ransportation Planning Principles Workshop, January 2020. Photo 
Credit: Max Johnson, 2020.
Kearns General Plan 10
Chapter 1 - Introduction
11
Kearns General Plan 12
Turning Goals into Actions Important Terms
Goals are important because they guide us to the 
shared community vision. However, goals on their own 
are not enough: while they indicate where a community 
aims to be, they do not explain how a community can 
get there. This plan is meant to be useful for elected 
and appointed officials, property owners, developers, 
and other community members; as such, it needs to be 
implementable. Actions are the method through which 
community goals can be realized. Actions lay out the 
path from today’ s reality to the vision for tomorrow.  
In this plan, the Work Program lists the actions necessary 
for Kearns to accomplish its goals. T ypes of actions 
range from forming partnerships to collaborate on 
tasks, to applying for specific grants, to conducting 
public outreach and much more.  The Work Program 
also answer questions such as who is responsible for 
the action, when the action needs to take place, and 
approximately how much the action will cost; such details 
make the Work Program clear, complete, and current. 
After a plan is adopted, the responsible parties named 
in the Work Program look to the Work Program to know 
what actions they ought to take. In this way, progress is 
made toward community goals. 
This document is intended to be actionable. T owards that end, 
the Kearns General Plan breaks down priorities and strategies 
into digestible and implementable pieces. Throughout the 
plan, the following terms and definitions will be important: 
• Vision: the vision represents the ultimate purpose of an 
organization (in this case, Kearns) and outlines what the 
plan should ultimately achieve
• Values and Principles: beliefs about desirable states or 
modes of conduct that guide behavior and prioritization 
of goals and objectives 
• Goals: overarching desired outcomes that can be 
attained by following the General Plan  
• Objectives: more specific outcomes that identify an end 
state 
• Policies: statements that inform elected officials and 
decision-makers  
• T argets: numerically defined thresholds that objectives 
are designed to meet 
• Programs: intentional governmental or community 
actions toward meeting goals 
• Baselines & Metrics: current measurement and future 
measurement to assess progress toward meeting goals 
A glossary is also included in the Appendix of this document, 
to provide readers with definitions of key terms used in the Plan.
Data Collection
T echnical Assessment: An integral component of the 
General Plan is a T echnical Assessment. This assessment 
describes the current state of Kearns today, and how its future 
could be shaped. The purpose of the assessment is to present 
a factual foundation upon which the rest of the General 
Plan is built. Preparation of the assessment is largely a staff 
function of collecting and analyzing data and information and 
presenting the results in a concise, easily understood format for 
consideration by the public and decision makers involved as 
the General Plan is developed. The T echnical Assessment for 
Kearns can be found in the Appendix of this General Plan. Data 
came from a variety of sources, most notably the U.S. Census 
Bureau’ s American Community Survey 5- Y ear Estimates and 
Esri’ s Business Analyst.
Conversations with Kearns 
Metro Township leaders and 
officials have revealed the 
community’s desire for this General 
Plan to be community-engaged and 
data-driven. To these ends, robust 
quantitative and qualitative data 
collection has informed this Plan. 
A variety of credible sources were 
used to provide baseline statistics 
for Kearns, while multiple public 
engagement efforts helped inform the 
future vision.
Chapter 1 - Introduction
13
Land Use Chapter Methods: ArcGIS was used extensively 
for analyses in the Land Use Chapter, including the build-out 
analysis, land use inventory, and character area analysis. The 
GIS work relied heavily on Wasatch Front Regional Council’ s 
shapefile layer: Salt Lake County Land Use Parcels 2018.  
Although the data is two years old, it was the most robust and 
accurate available at the time of the drafting of this General 
Plan. The data provided information such as parcel size, total 
market value, land use, and square footage of structures. Major 
discrepancies are identified with asterisks, and occur most 
often when land has been developed in the two years since 
WFRC published their data. In the Character Area Analysis, 
population of each character area is estimated by multiplying 
the dwelling units of the character area (from WFRC data) by 
the average household size by tenure for Kearns. According 
to ACS 5- Y ear Estimates 2018, the average household size of 
owner-occupied households was 3.7 , while the size for renter-
occupied households was 4.3. 
Esri Community Analyst was also used to provide some of the 
data found in this chapter, namely that found in the ‘ Access 
to Daily Needs’ section. Community Analyst allowed for a 
facility search by type in Kearns. For the Access to Daily Needs 
analysis, ‘grocery and convenience stores’ and ‘park facilities’ 
were identified using the software. Community Analyst was 
then used to draw five and ten minute walk rings around these 
facilities, producing maps of the Municipality that showed 
resident access to amenities.
T ransportation Chapter Methods: the T ransportation 
Chapter relied heavily on publicly-available data from Wasatch 
Front Regional Council (WFRC), Utah T ransit Authority (UTA), 
Utah Department of T ransportation (UDOT), and the Kearns 
Master T ransportation Plan (included in the Appendix of this 
General Plan). Maps included in the Chapter were produced 
using ArcGIS, and sources of map data are included in figure 
subtitles. Data from the U.S. Census Bureau was used to 
describe residents’ transportation preferences and commuting 
patterns.
Economic Development Chapter Methods: the Economic 
Development Chapter includes robust data analysis of 
both local and regional economic conditions. An analsyis 
of location quotient and shift share was conducted using 
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Quarterly Census of 
Employment and Wages  for Salt Lake County. The analysis 
focused on changes in average employment from Q1 2018 to 
Q1 2019. The results of the shift share and location quotient 
analyses are shown in a graph that reveals growing, emerging, 
transforming, and declining industries in the County, This 
analysis was accompanied by an overview of area market real 
estate reports that revealed trends in real estate vacancy and 
net absorption for Northern Utah. Our analysis relied heavily 
on NAI Excel’ s 2019 Outlook for Northern Utah . A review of 
leakage and surplus in retail sales was also conducted for three 
zip codes in and around Kearns, including: 84118, 84120, and 
84081. Spending data was derived from Esri Business Analyst 
Retail MarketPlace Profiles.
Other data regarding Kearns employment, businesses, and 
household spending patterns were derived from Esri Business 
Analyst Reports and U.S. Census Bureau estimates (ACS 
5- Y ear Estimates, 2018).
Kearns General Plan 14
Why is Community Input so Important? Community Input
By now, you have probably noticed that this Plan places 
great emphasis upon community-engaged decision 
making. Figure 1-2 highlights just a few of the benefits of 
engaging citizens in government decisions.
(Figure 1-2 Source: Irvin and Stansbury, 2004).
Involving the public in the planning process allows 
residents to share their unique community knowledge 
with local leaders and elected officials. As leaders learn 
from their constituents, decisions are made that better 
reflect residents’ values and lived experiences. Robust 
community engagement also gives the public ownership 
over projects and decisions. When the community feels 
that their voice was represented in a decision, they 
are more likely to become active advocates for and 
participants in decision outcomes.
Community input is a vital part of the general planning process, 
and key to a successful project. Input from community groups, 
residents, a steering committee, the Kearns Metro T ownship 
Planning Commission, and the Kearns Metro T ownship 
Council, as well as various technical experts throughout the 
process, is needed to create the best possible long-range 
plan for Kearns. In addition, input from these groups as well 
as collaboration and support from various elected officials 
throughout the region helps maintain transparency and 
generate the holistic, cross-boundary approaches needed 
for effective decision-making. Engagement to thoroughly 
understand the universe of alternatives on a case by case basis 
is critical to successful governance.
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats 
(SWOT) Analysis: A Community Workshop served as 
the kick-off event of the General Plan Update process. 
Approximately thirty-five members of the community 
participated in the workshop, which was help on Wednesday, 
December 18, 2019, at the Kearns Element Center. Since its 
completion in 2019, the Element Center, also known as the 
Kearns Athletic and T raining Center (KTAC), serves as a major 
gathering space for the community where many community-
related events occur. This facility is located between the iconic 
Kearns Olympic Oval and the Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness 
Center in the heart of Kearns.
The workshop consisted of a facilitated discussion of both a 
“Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT)” 
analysis and an “ Achieve, Preserve, Avoid, and Eliminate 
(APAE)” exercise. The SWOT analysis is a strategic planning 
technique that helped identify the needs and opportunities 
for Kearns, while the APAE exercise, an integral component 
to problem solving known as the Goals Grid, helped identify 
potential problems and contemplate possible solutions to 
design a future direction for the Municipality. What follows 
is a explanation of the results obtained from the Community 
Workshop as seen through the lens of the SWOT analysis 
and the APAE exercise. Figure 1-3 helps to graphically show 
what the analysis is designed to achieve. Results from both the 
SWOT and APAE analyses are provided throughout this Plan. 
A full report of the outcomes of the December 2019 Workshop 
is included in the Appendix.
When staff members went 
door-to-door to converse with 
and collect survey responses from 
existing business owners in the Kearns 
Town Center, these owners expressed 
gratitude at being engaged in the 
planning process. Many had never been 
directly contacted before to weigh in 
on local planning and decision-making. 
The business community represents 
an important voice in Kearns and must 
continue to be represented in plans.
Chapter 1 - Introduction
15
Achieve, Preserve, Avoid, and Eliminate (APAE) 
Analysis: The APAE exercise is designed to help residents 
take ownership over T ownship conditions, future goals, and 
proposed actions. T wo questions form the foundation of this 
exercise: 1) ‘Do you have it?’, and 2) ‘Do you want it?’. Each 
question is answered with a ‘Y es’ or ‘No’ response, and the 
questions and responses together form a matrix identifying 
qualities to: ‘achieve’, ‘preserve’, ‘avoid’, and ‘eliminate’ (see 
Figure 1-3). 
MSD T ransportation Planning Principles Workshop: 
A workshop was held in January 2020, with 32 participants 
representing various communities who receive planning 
and development services from the MSD. Kearns had 
representatives present at this workshop, which ultimately 
determined MSD-wide transportation priorities. A report of 
the outcomes of this workshop is included in the Appendix.
Land Use and T ransportation Survey: In April and May 
of 2020, the MSD Land Use and T ransportation Survey 
was emailed to community leaders (Councilors, Planning 
Commissioners, and General Plan Steering Committee 
Members) and posted on community websites. In total, 464 
responses were received from the municipalities served by the 
MSD. Kearns represented 54 of those respondents, and results 
from Kearns-specific participants are included throughout this 
Plan. Survey questions addressed transportation preferences 
and barriers, development concerns, and location-based 
areas of importance in the community.
Kearns T own Center Master Plan - Existing Business 
Survey: This survey was intended to gather input from existing 
business owners in the area proposed for redevelopment as 
the Kearns T own Center. In August and September of 2020, 
approximately 35 business owners were reached through 
mailers, emails (utilizing contact information from business 
licensing), and door-to-door outreach. Nine responses were 
received, for a response rate of slightly over 25%. The results 
of this survey are discussed in the Economic Development 
Chapter.
General Plan Steering Committee Meetings: Over the 
course of this General Plan process, twenty meetings were held 
with the General Plan Steering Committee. Using quantitative 
and qualitative (community feedback) data, as well as their 
own experiences, these committee members helped guide the 
direction of this Plan.
Figure 1-3: SWOT and APAE Analysis Framework
Kearns General Plan 16
Average 
household 
size = 3.66
4.8 square miles
Population and Demographics:
Kearns has a population of 36,867 and growing. Between 
2010 and 2020, the annual growth rate was 0.29% (Esri 
Community Analyst, 2020). Between 2020 and 2025, the 
annual growth rate is expected to grow to 0.77% (ibid). This 
would result in a 2025 population of approximately 38,307 . 
The number of households in Kearns is also growing (ibid). 
Surprisingly, the average household size (3.66 in 2020) has 
been increasing for Kearns, which contrasts with regional and 
national trends toward a smaller household size.
The population of Kearns is young, with a median age of 30.3 
(Esri Community Analyst, 2020). The age pyramid shows a 
growing population, with a large group of young children and 
middle-age adults. The largest group of individuals in Kearns 
is males in the category of 0 to 4 years old.
The population is extremely diverse compared to other 
Chapter 1 - Introduction
17
0-4
5-9
10-14
15-19
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
80-84
85+
Male
Female
municipalities in Salt Lake County. The percentage of individuals 
identifying as White is 66%, while 36% of the population 
identifies having Hispanic or Latino Ethnicity (Esri Community 
Analyst, 2020).
Educational attainment in Kearns is lower than in Salt Lake 
County as a whole, although the percentage of residents with 
a college degree is rising (Esri Community Analyst, 2020). In 
2020, over 20% of the population 25 and older had no high 
school diploma. Median household income, at $62,370 is also 
lower than the County median. 
Kearns employs approximately 3,416 people at 240 businesses 
(Esri Community Analyst, 2020). The majority of these 
businesses are categorized as Retail or Services (ibid). The 
Municipality experienced an increase in sales in every category 
between 2019 and 2020 (SLCo Dashboard, 2020).
Kearns General Plan 18
The Fascinating History of Camp Kearns Who Are We?
Although it only operated for four short years, life at 
Camp Kearns was anything but forgettable. Did you 
know it is believed that the base was home to the second 
largest hospital in Utah at the time, with a capacity of 
1,800 beds (Kearns Historical Society, 2020)? The 
site also hosted what could have then been the largest 
dental facility in the nation (Davidson, 2008).
Camp Kearns was also a hub of culture and 
entertainment. During its heyday, the Camp was 
frequented by celebrities, including Louis Armstrong and 
Nat King Cole, both of whom gave performances for the 
men in training (Davidson, 2008). Several famous men 
went through training at Camp Kearns, including Johnny 
Sturm and Duane Bryers. Sturm was the starting first 
baseman for the New Y ork Y ankees when they won the 
World Series prior to the outbreak of war; he joined the 
Kearns amateur baseball team while training on base 
and helped lead them to win the Utah championship 
twice (ibid). Duane Bryers was another resident of the 
Camp; when the war was finished, Bryers went on to work 
as a commercial artist, earning fame for his depictions 
of the idealized American West and of the plus-size pin-
up girl, referred to as Hilda (ibid). Bryers received the 
T rustee’ s Gold Medal from the National Cowboy Hall of 
Fame for his contributions to Western art.
After the 1942 Japanese Internment Order, innocent 
Japanese Americans passed through the Camp 
(sometimes picked up for work on building projects) 
on their way to the T opaz Internment Camp (Kearns 
Historical Society, 2020). In 1945, researchers involved 
in the Manhattan Atomic Bomb project also made a trip 
to Camp Kearns (Davidson, 2008). T oday, few signs of 
Camp Kearns remain, but the stories live on.
Geography: Kearns consists of 4.8 square miles of land-locked 
area, located in the west central portion of Salt Lake County. 
Kearns is surrounded by West Valley City to the north and west, 
Oquirrh and West Jordan City to the south, and T aylorsville City 
to the east. The average elevation in Kearns is 4,531 feet above 
sea level. There are approximately 225 sunny days per year, and 
92 days of precipitation (the majority of which are snow days). 
The lowest January temperature averages around 24.5 degrees 
Fahrenheit,  while the highest July temperature is 91.9 degrees on 
average. (Climate data derived from the 2019 Salt Lake County 
Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan)
History: Few people are aware of the rich history of Kearns. 
Kearns sits on land thought to have been included in the original 
hunting territory of the Ute T ribe, from whom Utah derives its name 
(Lee, 2019). The tribe consisted of several bands (family groups), 
that were united by a common language, trade relationships, 
intermarriage, temporary military alliances, and important events 
– including the Bear Dance, an annual gathering celebrating the 
coming of Spring (Utah American Indian Digital Archive, 2020). 
Bands of the Ute tribe were primarily nomadic, moving through 
Salt Lake Valley hunting and gathering mammals, fish, birds, 
seeds, roots, and berries in keeping with the natural seasons (ibid).  
The first LDS pioneers settled the area around 1848. Canal 
creation in the 1870s and expansion in the 1880s allowed 
agriculture to expand into the area now known as Kearns. After 
the bombing of Pearl Harbor, this agricultural land was converted 
over to an Army Air Force Base that was responsible for training 
American troops for combat in World War II. The base eventually 
became known as “Camp Kearns” and operated from 1942 to 
1946, training an estimated 90,000 troops during this period. The 
Camp was approximately 5,450 acres in area and is now covered 
by the northeast quadrant of Kearns (see Figure 1-4). After the end 
of the War, and as a result of extensive lobbying from veterans, the 
land that was occupied by the Camp was converted to residential 
uses (Kearns Historical Society, 2020). Many of the homes in the 
Camp Kearns Residential Character Area (described later in the 
Land Use Chapter) are original GI-Bill housing units.
Suburban growth has largely continued in Kearns, and residents 
proudly proclaim their identity as a “bedroom community”. In 
2002, Salt Lake City hosted the Olympic Winter Games. The 
official Olympic Oval for the events was built in Kearns, occupying 
space that once belonged to the shooting range at Camp Kearns 
(Winters 2007) (Figure 1-4). The Oval holds more Olympic 
World Records than any other ice oval in the world (Olympic 
Legacy Foundation, 2020). The location is still open for use by 
the public, offering free skate, classes, and a venue for professional 
competitive events. Kearns was officially incorporated as a Metro 
T ownship in 2017 .
The vision statement, values, 
and principles for Kearns 
Metro Township were created 
through a collaborative effort 
between the General Plan Steering 
Committee and MSD Staff. These 
items are based in community input 
and previous planning efforts.
Chapter 1 - Introduction
19
The Future We Choose.
Vision: Kearns is a community of diverse individuals and 
families dedicated to health, safety, quality education, 
economic opportunity, environmental sustainability, 
sincere friendship, service to others, pursuit of happiness, 
and finding pleasure in activities for all ages. The Kearns 
community celebrates its military and Olympic history 
and takes responsibility for the future by fostering a strong 
sense of shared identity. T o support a high quality of life 
for all residents, Kearns promotes shared decision-making 
regarding housing, transportation, environment and 
economic growth.   
Values and Principles: 
1. Environmental Sustainability: growth and 
development in Kearns should aim to enhance air quality, 
water quality, and climate resilience now and for future 
generations. 
2. Health and Safety: all members of Kearns’ diverse 
community should have access to a healthy, safe 
environment where they can live, work, and play. 
3. Commitment to Community: the Kearns community 
should celebrate its history and foster a strong sense of 
shared identity through service to others, the development 
of sincere friendships, and the pursuit of intergenerational 
happiness and well-being.   
4. Quality of Life: Kearns should promote a range of 
quality education and economic opportunities, as well 
as redevelopment and growth options, to support a high 
quality of life for all residents. 
5. Engaged Citizenship: all citizens of Kearns should 
have the opportunity to be knowledgeable about and 
engaged in local decision-making regarding housing, 
transportation, environment and economic growth that 
aligns with local and regional needs.  
How our shared vision guides the General Plan: 
The vision, values, and principles of Kearns are reflected 
throughout this General Plan and guide the actions included 
in the Community Work Program. For example, environmental 
sustainability works its way into the T ransportation Chapter, 
with actions oriented toward reducing vehicles miles traveled 
and improving air quality. Health and safety is a key component 
of the Land Use Chapter, which looks at improving access to 
healthcare and making infrastructure improvements to enhance 
safety. Commitment to community is reflected in our focus 
toward creating new community gathering places and events 
to celebrate our history and identity, this is especially evident in 
the Land Use and Economic Development Chapters. Quality 
of life is a major consideration int he Land Use Chapter, which 
examines access to needs such as recreational amenities and 
grocery stores. Finally, engaged citizenship is a consideration 
throughout the General Plan. This is especially reflected in the 
Community Work Program, which creates active spaces for 
residents to get involved with the planning process.
Figure 1-4: Mapping Historic Camp Kearns
* Please note that the above graphic was produced by an 
external party, the Salt Lake T ribune, and is the only map we 
have integrating historic Camp Kearns with existing Municipal 
boundaries. There may be inconsistencies between this map 
and historical documents.
Kearns General Plan 20 21Kearns General Plan 20 21
LAND USE
Ball Games with Utah Olympic Oval in background. Photo Credit: Kayla Mauldin, 2020.
Kearns General Plan 22
What is Land Use Planning? What’s In Kearns’ Land Use Chapter?
The Land Use Element establishes a vision for the future 
pattern of development in a community. It is the single 
most important element of the General Plan, bridging 
each of the plan’ s unique sections together. In reality, 
no use exists in isolation. Thoughtful land use ensures 
that households have access to transportation and 
recreational amenities, that schools are not located near 
sources of air pollution, that shopping centers receive the 
traffic they need to stay in business, and that municipal 
services and infrastructure can be provided efficiently. 
The pattern of land use in a community is a major 
determinant of area character and quality of life.
The Land Use Element for Kearns establishes land use 
goals and objectives for certain ‘character areas’ of the 
community as well as for the Municipality at large.
State Code Requirements: This chapter satisfies Utah 
State Code requirements for a Land Use Element in the 
General Plan. In keeping with state code, the chapter 
“designates the long-term goals and the proposed extent, 
general distribution, and location of land for housing for 
residents of various income levels, business, industry, 
agriculture, recreation, education, public buildings and 
grounds, open space, and other categories of public and 
private uses of land as appropriate (§10-9a-403).”
Although most of the land within Kearns has already been 
developed (Figure 2-1), land use planning is still critical to 
the future of Kearns. In addition to guiding policies on new 
development, this Land Use Chapter establishes a vision for 
enhancing existing neighborhoods and non-residential areas 
through infill and redevelopment.
Between 2020 and 2025, the population of Kearns is expected 
to grow from 36,867 to 38,307 - an increase of  1,440 
residents (Esri Business Analyst- Community Profile, 2020). 
During that same time, 364 new households are expected to 
form in the Municipality (ibid). The rise in households in Kearns 
will place increased demand on the housing market, services, 
and infrastructure. The community has already begun to 
address changing housing needs through the adoption of the 
Moderate Income Housing Plan (2019) and passing of an 
ordinance legalizing accessory dwelling units in select places 
throughout the Municipality. In addition to housing, this Plan 
gives attention to the commercial and industrial areas that 
will be needed to sustain a growing population. The way that 
Kearns plans for land use in the years to come will determine 
its ability to meet the needs of new residents, while protecting  
and enhancing quality of life for existing residents.
2018 data from Wasatch Front Regional Council identified only 
27 vacant parcels in the entirety of Kearns, for a combined area 
of 33 acres. T wo of these parcels have since been committed 
for development projects, leaving Kearns with less than 21 
acres left to be developed. One development will provide thirty 
single-family homes just south of Oquirrh Park. The other is a 
Planned Unit Development (PUD) that would provide 87 new 
townhomes across Cougar Avenue from Harmon’ s Grocery 
During the APAE Analysis, 
the top item to ‘Achieve’ was
identified by participants as:
“Increase RDA areas and 
opportunities –Redevelopment”
Chapter 2 - Land Use
23
Vacant
Parking
Developed
 Figure 2-1: Kearns, Vacant and Developed Lands.
Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using Salt Lake County Parcel Data  from Wasatch Front Regional Council (2018).
Store. In addition to these two developments, the existing 
Carrington Square apartment complex is in the process of 
adding 47 additional units for-rent. T ogether, these projects will 
provide an additional 164 housing units to the Kearns market 
- insufficient to meet the demand of the 364 new households 
expected to form in the next five years. 
In addition to housing, Kearns faces pressure to expand its 
commercial and industrial areas. The Municipality relies on 
sales tax for revenue, and increasing land used for commercial 
Land Use and Build-Out
This Chapter meets the requirements of Utah State Code 
regarding the Land Use Element of the General Plan. The first 
portion of this Land Use Chapter summarizes existing land 
use conditions and community input. The rest of the chapter 
is dedicated to future land uses, as shown in the Future Land 
Use and Character Area Map on pg. 34. For each category 
of future land uses (character area), a vision statement is 
provided, along with key future zoning considerations. This 
Chapter is instrumental for informing zoning and other land 
use ordinances.
and industrial purposes can improve the financial sustainability 
of the Municipality while providing residents with employment 
opportunities and increased access to services. With only 21 
acres of undeveloped land left, the community has taken 
careful consideration in the application of its future land 
uses and character areas to holistically address the needs of 
the community. More so, this Plan addresses opportunities 
for mixed-use development and creative planning and 
development strategies to help Kearns’ satisfy competing 
interests.
Kearns General Plan 24 25
Chapter 2 - Land Use

Kearns General Plan 26
What is Zoning?
In Utah State Code 10-9a-102, municipalities have land use 
authority, which includes the ability to pass and enforce zoning 
ordinances. Zoning determines the permitted and prohibited 
uses of land and/or the design of the built environment in a 
given area.  
T ypes of zoning include Euclidean, form-based, incentive, 
and hybrid. Euclidean zoning categorizes land by uses, 
physically separating industrial, commercial, residential, 
agricultural, and government/institutional uses from each 
other. Incentive zoning builds upon Euclidean zoning: it follows 
Euclidean zoning designations but allows divergence from 
those designations if the project provides explicit benefits to 
a community. Form-based zoning utilizes design standards 
to ensure that an area’ s character is upheld. In this type of 
zoning, ordinances focus on elements such as building heights, 
building setbacks, materials used in building, the relationship 
 Table 2-A: Kearns, Zoning Allocations.
of buildings to the streets, and the proportion of buildings and 
entryways. Different uses persist so long as building designs fit 
appropriately with the area. Hybrid zoning utilizes pieces of the 
aforementioned zoning types. 
Zoning provides four major benefits: 
1. Protects the public’ s health and safety by regulating 
where polluting, dangerous, or otherwise undesirable 
developments are located;
2. Guides new development to occur in places that make 
sense for a community;
3. Ensures decisions regarding the built environment 
reflect the community’ s vision; and
4. Prevents haphazard or subjective land use decisions.
27
Zoning Classifications
Kearns is predominantly zoned for residential uses, with R-1-
6 (single-family residential with a minimum lot size of 6,000 
square feet) being the most prominent. Accordingly, Kearns 
serves primarily as a bedroom community; only 209 (1%) 
of the employed civilian population both lives and works 
in the Municipality (OntheMap 2017). There are a few 
pockets of commercially zoned land, mostly occurring on the 
Municipality’ s peripheries and along arterial roads. Industrial 
uses are concentrated in the northwest quadrant of Kearns. 
Over nine percent of Kearns’ land is zoned as ‘PI’, which 
includes parks and sports facilities associated with institutional 
uses (T able 2-A).
Chapter 2 - Land Use

Kearns General Plan 28
What is a Livable Community? Access to Daily Needs
A livable community is “safe and secure, has affordable and 
appropriate housing and transportation options, and offers 
supportive community features and services” (AARP, 2019).  
Essentially, a livable community is one in which people of all ages 
and abilities can enjoy a high quality of life. Through the physical 
design of residences, accessible transportation facilities, and the 
layout of the neighborhood, a livable community is designed to 
bolster residents’ independence and dignity throughout various 
life stages.  
Six principles explain the goals of a livable community:
1. Secure affordability 
2. Ensure equitable access 
3. Ensure quality 
4. Prioritize accessibility and the ability to age-in-place 
5. Promote health, safety, and environmental 
sustainability 
6. Achieve holistic policymaking 
An individual’ s quality of life is largely based on their ability to 
access daily needs. Are there parks or recreational facilities 
nearby? Can someone purchase fresh fruits and vegetables 
in their neighborhood? Do children have the means 
(transportation, supplies, etc.) to attend school regularly? 
Although not all-encompassing, the maps below are good 
indicators of the ‘livability’ of neighborhoods in Kearns. The 
map in the bottom left shows the area of the Municipality 
that is within a 5-minute or 10-minute walk of a grocery store. 
The map on the bottom right shows the area within a 5- or 
10-minute walk of a park facility. Notice that some areas of 
Kearns are well served by grocery/convenience stores, while 
others appear barren. For example, the area around the 
proposed Kearns T own Center (described later in this chapter) 
has exceptional grocery store access. But the neighborhoods 
north of the T own Center have few grocery or convenience 
stores within walking distance. If residents within these areas 
do not own an automobile, or are unable to drive, they may 
have difficulty obtaining fresh and healthy foods.
Kearns Metro Township Access to Grocery & Convenience Stores
Source: ©2020 Esri.
September 01, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 1
Figure 2-2: Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using Esri Community Analyst Facilities Search (2020).
Grocery or 
Convenience Store
5-Minute Walk Radius
10-Minute Walk Radius
29
Kearns Metro Township Access to Parks and Open Space
September 2020
Source: ©2020 Esri.
September 01, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 1
Figure 2-3: Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using Esri Community Analyst (2020).
5-Minute Walk Radius
10-Minute Walk Radius
Park Facility
Access to parks also depends on where one is located within 
Kearns. The southwest quadrant of Kearns features six park 
facilities, so that almost all residents in these areas are within 
access to a park/recreational space. The southeast corner 
of Kearns, however, has very little access to park spaces. 
Residents in these neighborhoods would likely have to drive in 
order to meet their recreational needs.
These maps only consider distance to park facilities and 
grocery stores/convenience stores. They do not consider the 
quality of such facilities, which can also impact ‘livability’ of an 
area. Once adequate access is achieved, it will be important 
to evaluate the quality of existing amenities to ensure they are 
meeting the needs of Kearns residents.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 30
Are Land Use and Air Quality Related? Community Input
In the Land Use and T ransportation Survey, Kearns’ top 
concern was Air Quality. So, what does air quality have to do 
with general planning? In fact, air quality is tightly related to 
land use in three ways.  
1. Some land uses emit pollutants while others filter 
and clean the air: Imagine two plots, each the size of 
a football field. A five-story tannery occupies one plot, 
while a forest occupies the other. The former pollutes the 
air, while the latter helps clean it. Since land uses variably 
impact air quality, by determining through zoning how 
much of a specific land use is allowed in a community, a 
community influences their air quality. 
2. V ehicles are a major source of air pollution, 
and the pattern of land uses in a community 
influences how much people drive. If in Community 
A the residences sit in the northwest while the single 
employment center sits five miles away in the southeast, 
then everyone must commute ten miles per day. Air 
quality in Community A would be significantly worse 
than in Community B, whose layout of multiple, small 
employment centers surrounded by residences promotes 
an average commute of two miles per day. 
3. Land use influences the presence, viability, and 
popularity of public and active transportation 
methods, which, compared to vehicles, have a 
lower impact on air quality. Areas with at least ten 
dwelling units per acre provide the population base 
and density necessary to support public transportation 
routes. When people live within one mile of a destination, 
such as a restaurant, and safe, clean sidewalks link 
the two locations, people are generally willing to walk 
or bike rather than drive. Thus, relative locations and 
available transportation facilities influence what mode of 
transportation people choose; land use decisions make it 
more or less likely that people can choose transportation 
modes that are better for air quality. 
Robust community feedback helped to inform the land 
use element. At the beginning of the General Planning 
Process, SWOT and APAE analyses were conducted for the 
Municipality. In 2020, a survey was conducted to understand 
residents’ preferences regarding land use and transportation. 
Other local plans were also referred to when developing goals 
and objectives, including the 2019 Kearns T own Center Master 
Plan.
SWOT Analysis: Figure 2-5 presents the strengths, 
weaknesses, opportunities, and threats identified by the 
community during its kick-off workshop in December of 2019, 
as they pertain to land use. Residents highlighted parks and 
recreation as a strength in Kearns (Kearns Oquirrh Park and 
the Olympic Oval) as well as the Municipality’ s high rates 
of homeownership and relative stability of neighborhoods 
(permanence of residents). Community programs and 
population diversity were also welcomed as strengths in Kearns. 
The community identified image and reputation, including 
dilapidated buildings, as major weaknesses. In the weaknesses 
section, residents also cited lack of desirable amenities such as 
street lighting, commercial activities, a Warehouse District, and 
fireworks shows. Later in this Chapter, a new vision is given to 
the existing industrial area in the northwestern corner of Kearns, 
to help satisfy that desire for a Warehouse District. From their 
analysis of strengths and weaknesses, workshop participants 
identified several opportunities for Kearns. Many wanted an 
expansion and enhancement of recreational amenities, such 
as a new indoor soccer field, improvements and additions to 
Lodestone Park and the Oval/Beehive area, and dedication 
of new space for community events. The community also saw 
opportunities to expand commercial activities: particularly 
those that are locally-engaged, such as Farmer’ s Markets 
and small businesses. Kearns identified many items which 
may threaten the community’ s ability to meet its goals. These 
include oversaturation of on-street parking, litter and open 
dumping, lack of curb appeal or working fixtures (such as 
street lighting), and poor air quality. This analysis informs the 
goals and objectives that follow in later sections.
APAE Analysis: Figure 2-6 shows the results of the APAE 
(achieve, preserve, avoid, and eliminate) analysis conducted 
at the same December 2019 community workshop. While 
the SWOT analysis helped the community assess its assets 
and deficiencies, the APAE formed the basis for a plan of 
action for ensuring desired future outcomes. Kearns residents 
hoped to achieve increased recreational and entertainment 
“Thank you for allowing
the residents an opportunity to 
provide input.” 
- Resident response from the Land Use and 
Transportation Survey 2020.
31
amenities, such as a history museum, racquetball courts, and 
a downtown area. Residents also expressed interest in creating 
new opportunities for redevelopment within the Municipality. 
Participants in the workshop wanted to preserve may of the 
assets that they already had, including the Municipality’ s 
‘small-town feel’ and rich history. Residents also wanted to 
preserve existing parks and open spaces as well as the local 
businesses and library that they already frequent. T o create 
their desired future, Kearns residents recognized the need 
to avoid certain, undesirable developments such as poorly 
designed and sited high-density residential buildings, adult-
oriented businesses, or expansions to existing uses that would 
result in increased traffic congestion and noise pollution (with 
particular caution given to USANA amphitheater). Kearns 
residents hoped to avoid overcrowding and home conversions 
in residential neighborhoods, but they also wanted to 
encourage redevelopment (avoiding abandoned buildings). 
Finally, workshop participants identified the need to eliminate 
unsightly litter, clutter, and junk in their neighborhoods. They 
hoped to eliminate some of the negative externalities of the 
USANA and hoped to eliminate homelessness.
Land Use and T ransportation Survey: In Spring of 2020, 
the MSD launched a Land Use and T ransportation Survey 
for all the communities under its jurisdiction. Fifty-four people 
participated from Kearns. Their responses pertaining to land 
use are shown in Figure 2-4. Based on a combined count of 
the number of people identifying an element as ‘Important’ or 
‘V ery Important’ to the development of their community, the 
following were the top five most important factors to consider:
1. Clean Air (100% of respondents felt this was 
‘Important’ or ‘V ery Important’)
2. Safe Homes and Neighborhoods
3. Digital Infrastructure
4. Parks and Open Spaces
5. Affordability of Housing
The item that was least important to Kearns residents 
participating in the survey was historical preservation. 
However, thirty-six of the 54 (66.7%) respondents still 
identified this as ‘Important’ or ‘V ery Important’.
 Figure 2-4: Land Use and Transportation Survey Results for Kearns.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Source: MSD Land Use and T ransportation Survey, 2020.
Kearns General Plan 32
Land Use and Economic Development
Planning has not always recognized the connection 
between land use and economic development. Y et 
land, whether the space itself or what occupies 
that space, is often a community’ s most valuable 
commodity. In Utah, sales tax monies go to 
municipalities. Commercially-zoned lands therefore 
boost a community’ s wellbeing, by funding 
infrastructure improvements and community 
amenities, to an extent that other land uses do not. 
Additionally, some land uses spur pedestrian activity, 
which benefits local businesses, while other land 
uses deter pedestrian and thus business activity. This 
plan recognizes the connection between land use 
and economic development. In fact, this land use 
element is guided by economic analysis conducted 
in the Kearns T own Center Plan and by staff in Long 
Range Planning and SLCo Economic Development.  
More on Economic Development in Kearns is 
available in Chapter 4 of this Plan.
In addition to a steering 
committee, the Kearns Town 
Center Master Plan process involved 
two community open houses and 
a survey posted online and at 
community events. Many of the 
recommendations made in the Kearns 
Town Center Master Plan continue to 
be supported by residents. The Kearns 
Town Center Character Area explored 
in this General Plan reiterates many of 
the main ideas of the Master Plan.
Other Sources of Community Input
The Kearns T own Center Master Plan is referenced often 
in the character area section of this land use element. The 
Kearns T own Center Master Plan was prepared by GSBS 
Consulting in Spring of 2019, at the request of the Municipality 
and Municipal Services District. The plan re-imagines the 
commercial node located along 5400 S on the east side of 
Kearns, as a walkable, community-oriented center for shopping 
and entertainment. In the plan, several goals, objectives and 
actions are identified for the area – many of which carry over 
into the vision for Kearns T own Center Character Area (found 
further on in this chapter). Redevelopment of the T own Center 
will take place over many years, with the first phase being the 
redevelopment of the Kearns Library, a branch of Salt Lake 
County Libraries. Many of the aspirations of the community 
articulated during the T own Center planning process are still 
relevant and can be applied to the Municipality at large. The 
complete plan is adopted by reference in the Appendix of this 
General Plan.
General Plan Steering Committee Meetings: Steering 
Committee members were heavily involved in the preparation 
of this land use element. Over the course of several months, 
(May 2020-August 2020), members worked with staff to 
identify distinct ‘character areas’ within Kearns, and define a 
vision for each. General Plan Steering Committee Members 
were presented with GIS data, as well as community input from 
the in-person workshop and Land Use and T ransportation 
Survey (2020) to help inform their decisions.
Figure 2-7: At the December 2019 Community Workship, residents 
were asked to identify strenghts, weaknesses, opportunities and threats 
to Kearns. They then voted on the items their peers had identified.  The 
results are shown in the image above.
33
 Figure 2-5: SWOT Analysis, Land Use-Related. Figure 2-6: APAE Analysis, Land Use-Related.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 34
What is a Character Area?
Members of the Kearns General Plan Steering Committee 
identified 18 character areas in the Municipality (Figure 
2-8). Each of these areas plays a significant role in 
the quality of life and future development patterns of 
Kearns. A brief description of the nine areas is provided 
to the right, while an in-depth discussion of the land use 
conditions, goals, and objectives associated with each is 
provided further on in this Chapter. 
Character areas are defined as specific geographic 
areas that:
• have unique or special characteristics; 
• have potential to evolve into a unique area 
when provided specific guidance
• require attention suitable to its uniqueness.
Building, landscape, and streetscape features combine 
to form character areas. Within a character area, these 
features  are  similar;  compared  to  another  character 
area, one more of these features may differ, and so the 
areas feel distinct from one another.
 
How were Character Areas Designated?
Character areas were established based on input from 
Kearns residents in the Land Use and T ransportation 
Survey (2020) and from discussions with General 
Plan Steering Committee Members. The areas are 
typically based around a community amenity, and their 
boundaries are set using political boundaries or natural 
divides, such as roadways.
In this Plan, Character Areas are broken down into three 
categories:
1. The Core Character Areas: these nine character 
areas represent major destinations or opportunity areas 
within Kearns.
2. The Residential Character Areas: these five character 
areas represent the main residential neighborhoods in 
the Municipality.
3. The Supplementary Character Areas: included 
in this are four character areas whose major goals are 
preservation or further study.
35
Kearns: Map of Future Land Uses and Character Areas
Figure 2-8: Prepared by MSD Long Range Planning, based on community input.
Chapter 2 - Land Use

Kearns General Plan 36
The Warehouse 
District
Mobile Home 
Community
Character Area Snapshot:
T otal Area: 120.6 acres
• Industrial Area: 73.2 acres
• Government and Institutional Area: 
16.4 acres
• Parking Area: 13.0 acres
• Vacant Land Area: 9.2 acres
• Commercial Area: 1.3 acres
• Other: 7 .5 acres
T otal Market Value: $46,906,000
• Industrial Bldg Square Footage: 
553,877 (1,629 sq. ft. per employee)
• Government and Institutional Bldg 
Square Footage: 50,700
• Commercial Square Footage: 15,851
• Vacant Square Footage: 9,648
 Figure 2-9: Street view of Kearns’ Warehouse District (Google Maps 2019)
The area referred to as the Warehouse District in this Plan currently serves 
as the Camp Kearns industrial area. Residents desire that this area be re-
imagined to become a true Warehouse District.  The area hosts a daytime 
population of 340 employees (Esri Community Analyst, 2020). It is 
estimated that the annual sales volume of businesses in the Warehouse 
District is approximately $111,103,800, rendering this character area 
critical to the economic health of Kearns (Community Analyst, 2020).
The Warehouse District: E X I ST I N G
The Core Character Areas
The Core Character Areas were identified by the General Plan Steering Committee as those places that represented major 
destinations, or the opportunity to become major destinations within Kearns. These areas require the most planning attention to 
ensure their success.
37
Location: The Warehouse District is located along the 
northern border of Kearns, bounded to the west by 5600 W 
and the railroad, and to the east by Shadow Ridge Estates.
Current Conditions: This area currently serves as the 
manufacturing and industrial center of Kearns. Of the District’ s 
120.6 acres, 73.2 acres (or 60.7%) are dedicated to industrial 
uses. There is a total of 630,076 square feet of building space, 
87 .9% of which is used for industrial purposes. The vacancy 
rate in this area is low, with only 1.53% of available building 
area sitting vacant.
The Warehouse District provides essential tax revenue to the 
Municipality, with the current annual sales volume estimated 
at $111,103,800 (Esri Community Analyst, 2020). The total 
market value of the land and structures is approximately 
$46,906,000 (WFRC, 2020). T wenty-two  local businesses 
currently call the Warehouse District home, employing 
approximately 340 residents from Kearns and nearby 
municipalities (Esri Community Analyst, 2020). 
Roads throughout the industrial area are paved; however, 
there is a noticeable lack of sidewalk and lighting infrastructure. 
Although this character area is surrounded by residential 
development on all sides, the railroad prevents any pedestrian 
access from the west. The Warehouse District is mostly built 
out, but a few sites remain for infill development. Unsightly 
outdoor storage, lack of vegetation, and noise from the 
railroad are issues that residents wish to address in this area. 
Assets: Several assets contribute to the strength of the 
Warehouse District and the Municipality as a whole.
• Opportunity Zone: the Warehouse District lays within 
Census T ract 49035113802, which has been designated 
an opportunity zone. Businesses that locate within and 
invest in opportunity zones are eligible for tax benefits.
• T ransportation Access: the Warehouse District is 
located directly on the Savage Services rail line, which 
is still in use through Kearns. Bangerter Highway and 
Mountain View Corridor connect Warehouse District 
businesses to regional markets and employment centers, 
including the planned Inland Port on the west side of 
Salt Lake City. The character area also benefits from 
proximity to Salt Lake City International Airport (eleven 
miles north) and South Valley Regional Airport (four 
miles south).
• Employment Center: Esri estimates that there are 
3,416 people employed in Kearns. This means that 
approximately ten percent of all jobs in Kearns are 
located in the Warehouse District (340). This is and 
should remain an important employment center in 
Kearns.
• Sales T ax Generation: Kearns may not levy a property 
tax or energy tax, but is permitted to levy a sales tax 
with the approval of the MSD board. This tax serves 
as a major source of revenue for Kearns; thus, the sales 
volume of the Warehouse District is critically important to 
Kearns’ financial wellbeing.
Challenges: Several challenges must be addressed to ensure 
the continuing success of the Warehouse District.
• Railroad Barrier: although the Warehouse District 
is surrounded by residential neighborhoods, access is 
limited by the railroad, which can only legally be crossed 
at 4700 S and 5415 S. This limits the ability of residents 
to walk or bike to work and/or home for lunch breaks and 
drives up parking needs on-site. The lack of connectivity 
for walkers and bikers also means that employment 
opportunities are limited for the portion of the population 
that does not have access to a vehicle.
• Infrastructure and Amenities: sidewalks and 
street lighting are missing from most of the character 
area, limiting the perceived safety and cohesiveness of 
the Warehouse District. In addition, there are limited 
amenities for employees to enjoy on-site. No restaurants 
currently exist to serve the lunch needs of employees, no 
dedicated park space exists for workers to utilize during 
breaks, and there are no day care facilities located within 
the District (although there is one just south of the area). 
The absence of infrastructure and amenities promotes 
increased driving and diminishes the Warehouse District’ s 
identity as an industrial park.
• Residential Impacts: Kearns’ current landscaping 
and screening requirements were not incorporated into 
the zoning code until 2007 , at which time many of the 
structures and uses present in the Warehouse District 
had already been established. This has led to the location 
of industrial and commercial businesses adjacent to 
residential neighborhoods with an absence of screening. 
During SWOT and APAE analysis, residents complained 
about unsightly litter and junk accumulation, and also 
worried about potential pollutants from industrial uses.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 38
Case Study: Lake Park Corporate Centre, 
West Valley City
The Warehouse District: Future Vision
The Lake Park Corporate Centre integrates several uses 
in its campus in order to support corporate tenants. 
Although the primary use of the site remains large-scale 
office uses, limited restaurant opportunities, recreational 
amenities (including a golf course), and even a hotel 
occupy the space. The Lake Park Corporate Centre 
prides itself on its gorgeous landscaping and walkways 
that stretch throughout the development. Workers can 
take advantage of the scenic grounds while on break, 
and employers can impress their corporate clients with 
a game of golf. Visitors to the Corporate Centre are 
greeted upon arrival with signage and flower beds.
Kearns’ Warehouse District is smaller in scale than the 
Lake Park Corporate Centre, but many of the same 
principles apply. Mixed-uses can be integrated on site 
to better support business tenants. Landscaping and 
pedestrian infrastructure create a more welcoming 
environment and ensure that the Warehouse District is 
seen as a community amenity rather than an eyesore.
Vision: The Warehouse District will become an 
industrial campus that offers limited amenities to 
workers and nearby residential neighborhoods. 
Employees will have the ability to take breaks outside 
or walk to a restaurant for lunch. And employers will 
have increased opportunities to sell their goods to the 
general public directly from the sites of production. 
The Warehouse District will offer light industrial, flex space, and 
limited commercial uses in a campus setting. The character 
area is not intended to compete with commercial development 
in the Kearns T own Center. Its primary purpose will remain 
light industrial and manufacturing uses. However, small-scale 
commercial and recreational development will be encouraged 
to serve workers and support business tenants. Flex space will 
allow businesses in the Warehouse District to plan, produce, 
and sell product on-site. Future land use policies should seek 
to ease the transition between the Warehouse District and 
surrounding residential development through landscaping 
and improvement of pedestrian infrastructure. Intense uses, 
generating excess light, noise, or smell, will be discouraged.
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: 3:1
T arget Building Heights: 1-4 Stories
T arget Maximum Density: 0 dwelling units per acre
Primary Uses: light industrial, light manufacturing, flex 
industrial space, wholesale, warehouse.
Prohibited Uses: heavy industrial or manufacturing, 
outdoor storage that is not accessory to another primary use.
Parking and Unloading: should occur on-site and off-
street, but may be shared.
Other Design Features: 
• Landscaping should be used to screen parking, outdoor 
storage, and trash receptacles.
• Existing street lights should be replaced with fully shielded 
lights.
• Entryway signage should be present at the intersections 
of: 4700 S and Cable Ridge Rd, 4700 S and Camp 
Kearns Rd, 4850 S and Kami Way, and 4985 S and 
5130 W.
The SWOT and APAE analyses
revealed that Kearns’ residents
see the lack of curb appeal and 
accumulation of junk and litter in 
their neighborhoods as a significant 
threat. Since the Warehouse District is 
surrounded on all sides by residential 
development, it is important that care 
be taken to mitigate unsightly uses, 
noxious odors, and loud noises.
Figure 2-10: Aerial view of Lake Park Corporate Centre (CBRE 
2020)
39
Figure 2-11: Lake Park Corporate Centre in 
West Valley City welcomes visitors through large, 
attractive signage and entryway landscaping. 
The future Warehouse District in Kearns should 
seek to promote consistent signage and direct 
employees and visitors through wayfinding. 
Landscaping helps to enhance the visual appeal 
of the area despite the presence of industrial and 
warehousing uses. (Photo credit: CBRE 2020).
Figure 2-12: Well-maintained walking paths 
weave throughout the Lake Park Corporate 
Centre, accompanied by landscaping and 
lighting. The walking paths provide a place for 
employees to meet recreational needs or take 
in green space during the day. Such spaces can 
provide restorative breaks to help employees’ 
productivity. The pathways may also be used 
to access various points within the park so that 
workers can commute via walking or biking, or 
can grab lunch from a nearby eatery without 
getting in a car. (Photo credit: CBRE 2020).
Example Zoning Categories:
Portland General Industrial 1: This Portland, OR, zone is 
oriented toward industrial uses, but also allows for wholesale, 
parks and recreation, and other accessory uses. The zone 
favors a grid block pattern with buildings that are generally 
close to the street. 
Austin Industrial Park (IP): The Industrial Park Zone 
(Austin, TX) allows for the development of industrial, 
research and development, administrative, limited 
commercial, and similar uses in a large area or planned 
industrial center. The maximum building height is 60 feet, 
which would allow for five stories or less.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 40
Mobile and Manufactured Home Community: E X I ST I N G
The Mobile Home 
Community
The Warehouse 
District
Character Area Snapshot:
T otal Area: 29.2 acres
• All residential
• 203 dwelling units (7 .0 per acre)
• Estimated population of 757 
residents (based on average 
household size)
• 16,592 people per sq. mile, or            
26 people per acre
T otal Market Value: $9,256,800
• Zoned R-MH (Residential Mobile 
Home Zone)
• T wo people are employed in this 
character area.
The Mobile and Manufactured Home Community Character 
Area represents the only mobile home park in Kearns. The 
park has existed on this site since 1997 and offers affordable 
housing options for Kearns residents.
 Figure 2-13: Street View of Shadow Ridge (MH Village 2020).
41
Location: The Mobile and Manufactured Home Community 
is located directly east of the Warehouse District, with frontage 
on 4700 S.
Current Conditions: This area currently hosts the Shadow 
Ridge Estates Mobile Home Park, which is an important source 
of affordable housing in the Municipality. The part of the mobile 
home park that fronts on 4700 S is screened by a painted brick 
wall and street trees. The area benefits from close proximity to 
the Warehouse District, local churches, Family Dollar, and the 
Kearns Senior Center. However, pedestrian infrastructure is in 
need of improvement. This character area is connected to Salt 
Lake Community College and Murray Central Station via UTA 
Bus Route 47 . There are 203 mobile home sites within the park, 
and a shared playground is provided (MH Village 2020).
Assets: Several assets can be utilized to enhance the character 
of the Mobile Home Community.
• Opportunity Zone: the Mobile and Manufactured 
Home Community lays within Census T ract 
49035113802, which has been designated an 
opportunity zone. Businesses that locate within and 
invest in opportunity zones are eligible for special tax 
benefits.
• Access to Opportunities: the Mobile and 
Manufactured Home Community is immediately 
adjacent to the Warehouse District, which employs 
approximately 340 people. This character area also 
benefits from proximity to West Kearns Elementary 
School, Welcker Memorial Park, the Senior Center, and 
several commercial businesses.  The location of the area 
along bus route 47 also connects the Mobile Home 
Community to regional destinations and employment 
opportunities. Residents of the character area can 
access many of the things they need without using an 
automobile.
• Affordable Housing: the Mobile and Manufactured 
Home Community is primarily owner-occupied (ACS 
5- Y ear Estimates, 2018: T able S2504). Mobile homes 
provide a major source of affordable housing, with the 
median value of a mobile home in Kearns estimated 
at $27 ,000 (ACS 5- Y ear Estimates, 2018: T able 
B25083). This is far lower than the median value of 
all owner-occupied units in Kearns, which is estimated 
at  $183,600 (ACS 5- Y ear Estimates, 2018: B25077).
Challenges: Several challenges must be addressed to ensure 
that affordable housing opportunities are preserved in the 
Mobile Home Community, while promoting uses and designs 
that are compatible with the surrounding Metro T ownship.
• Infrastructure and Amenities: sidewalks are present 
throughout the Mobile Home Community. However, 
there are only two access points in and out of the 
Character Area, one on 4700 S and one at Kami Way 
/ S Warehouse Drive. As a result, residents of the Mobile 
Home Community must walk/bike/roll farther distances 
to the destinations that they are immediately adjacent 
to. For example, residents on Shiloh Run Drive must go 
out the front entrance and travel east on 4700 S to reach 
the Kearns Senior Center, which brushes up against their 
backyards. Amenities within the character area could 
also be improved. Currently, two private parks, with a 
combined 1.15 acres, serves the estimated 757 residents 
(Google Earth, 2020). These parks include basketball 
courts and playground equipment for children, but 
provide space for few other activities. Welcker Memorial 
Park provides some space for walking, but is located 
0.45 miles away.
• Image and Land Use Patterns: Around the nation, 
mobile home parks are disappearing due to changing 
land uses and outsiders’ perceptions of mobile/
manufactured homes. Code enforcement, tied to 
health, safety, and welfare may have the unintentional 
consequence of shutting down mobile home parks if 
maintenance is poor. Generally, residents do not have 
any control over this maintenance themselves, and rely 
on landlords (park owners) to upkeep infrastructure and 
amenities in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, 
poor maintenance can lead to unsafe conditions and  
parks being condemned by code enforcement. If the land 
is not preserved for use by mobile/manufactured homes, 
redevelopment may target the area for a different 
purpose, and a large source of affordable housing would 
be lost. Although maintenance does not appear to be an 
issue currently in Shadow Ridge Estates, it is important 
that Kearns consider whether zoning policies protect 
residents in the case that an owner does fail to maintain 
the property. For more on the challenges that mobile/
manufactured home parks are facing, click here.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 42
Case Study: Rolling Hills Estates, Layton Mobile and Manufactured Home Community: 
Future Vision
Rolling Hills Estates in Layton features 340 sites and 
is one of several mobile home parks in the area (MH 
Village 2020). In addition to community recreational 
spaces, laundry facilities are provided on-site. T rees 
and other landscaping features are used to provide 
privacy between units, giving the feel of open space. The 
community’ s entrance features large signage and a tree-
lined driveway, while speed bumps serve to slow down 
traffic within the area.
 
While the Mobile Home Community in Kearns currently 
appears as an isolated pocket within the Municipality, 
the Rolling Hills Estates park in Layton is well-connected. 
There are several entrances in and out of the area, and 
the internal streets are laid out in a grid pattern (providing 
several routes for drivers and pedestrians alike). Great 
care is put into landscaping and maintenance, improving 
conditions for residents of the park and adding to the 
overall quality of development in Layton.
Vision: The Mobile and Manufactured Home 
Community will continue to provide high-quality 
affordable living options for Kearns residents by 
preserving mobile and manufactured home uses, setting 
a high standard for landscaping and maintenance, and 
improving connectivity to community amenities.
Kearns recognizes the value of providing diverse housing 
options for residents of various sociodemographic 
backgrounds. The Mobile and Manufactured Home 
Community will provide safe and affordable housing for 
residents and serve as an asset to the Kearns community 
as a whole as greater attention is given to landscaping 
and maintenance. Efforts should also be taken to improve 
the access of residents of the Mobile and Manufactured 
Home Community to amenities offered by the Municipality, 
including the Senior Center, employment opportunities, and 
nearby schools.
In the Land Use and Trans-
portation Survey distributed 
to residents in 2020, neighborhood 
safety and affordable housing were 
seen as important to the development 
of Kearns by more than fifty percent 
(50%) of respondents. Mobile homes 
are an important source of affordable 
housing in many communities, and 
overall safety of mobile home parks can 
be improved through implementation 
of pedestrian infrastructure and 
increased maintenance.
Figure 2-14: Rolling Hills Estates Mobile Home Park (Rolling Hills 
Estates 2020)
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: NA
T arget Building Heights: 1-2 stories
T arget Maximum Density: 7 to 8 du per acre
Primary Uses: mobile home uses, manufactured home 
uses, parks and open space
Prohibited Uses: RVs/RV Parks, industrial uses, commercial 
uses (with the exception of home occupations)
Parking and Unloading: on-site and off-street, with limited 
shared on-street parking provided for visitors
Other Design Features: 
• Maintenance of vegetative screen around the Mobile 
and Manufactured Home Community
• Improvement of sidewalk infrastructure in and around the 
community, especially essential pathways that connect 
residents to the Warehouse District or Senior Center.
43
Example Zoning Categories:
Portland Residential Manufactured Dwelling Park: 
This Portland, OR, zone allows for low-scale manufactured 
home dwellings of four or more to be located on a single site. 
The primary use is residential, and building heights are limited 
to 35 feet. The Manufactured Dwelling Park Zone requires 
only one off-street parking space per dwelling unit.
Figure 2-15 shows an aerial view of Rolling Hills Estates in 
Layton, UT. The street pattern of the park is laid out in a grid 
with several entry and exit points, easing transportation access. 
Homes are clustered around shared pocket green spaces, and 
mature trees provide shade while adding privacy to individual 
units. The clubhouse, including the pool, is located in the 
center of the development for residents to enjoy. (Photo credit: 
Google Maps Satellite View, 2020).
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Figure 2-15: (Google Maps Satellite View, 2020)
Kearns General Plan 44
Commercial Redevelopment Opportunity: E X I ST I N G
Commercial 
Redevelopment 
Opportunity
Character Area Snapshot:
T otal Area: 9.0 acres
• 0 dwelling units; no residential population
• Commercial Area: 3.6 acres
• Government & Institutional Area:      
1.8 acres
• Vacant Area: 2.1 acres
• Other Area: 1.5 acres
People entering Kearns from the north or east via 4000 W or 
4715 S pass through the Commercial Redevelopment Opportunity 
Character Area. This area is characterized by vacant and under-
performing commercial land. Only six businesses occupy the nine 
acre area, employing a total of 23 people.
Street View of Shadow Ridge (MH Village 2020).
ommercial
overnment and Institutional
oads and Utilities
Figure 2-16: Looking south into Kearns from W 4715 S (Google Maps 2019).
T otal Market Value: $6,072,600
• Zoned: C-2 and R-1-6
• 6 businesses; 23 employees
• Sales V olume: $3,169,000
• Commercial Building Square Footage: 
39,469 (1,716 per employee)
• Government & Institutional Building 
Square Footage: 28,448 
45
Location: The Commercial Redevelopment Opportunity 
Character Area  is located in the very northeast corner of 
the Municipality. It is bordered by W 4700 S to the north 
and S 4015 W to the east. The area includes the commercial 
properties in this corner, but stops short of the residential 
neighborhoods.
Current Conditions: The Commercial Redevelopment 
Opportunity Character Area currently includes a few 
restaurants, a gas station, and a church. A canal runs through 
the space, but the Utah and Salt Lake Canal T rail that follows 
the canal to the north does not yet extend into this area. T raffic 
speeds through the area are 35 mph, and the area is serviced 
by UTA Bus Routes 47 and 240. This corner is one of the main 
entrances into Kearns.
Assets: Several assets can be utilized to enhance the character 
of the Commercial Redevelopment Opportunity Character 
Area.
• High Visibility: The annual average daily traffic 
(AADT) load on 4715 S as it passes by the Commercial 
Redevelopment Opportunity Character Area exceeds 
28,000 (UDOT , 2016). This means that the site is highly 
visible both by residents and visitors who pass by on 
their way to other destinations. This traffic has several 
impacts on the area. While it may cause noise, smells, 
and safety concerns, it also bolsters the opportunities 
for commercial success. With so many vehicles passing 
by on a daily basis, businesses have the opportunity 
to market their goods and draw customers in. Kearns 
also has an opportunity to advertise its identity through 
welcome and wayfinding signage.
• Proposed Utah and Salt Lake Canal T rail 
Expansion: As discussed later on in the T ransportation 
Element, the Utah and Salt Lake Canal T rail currently 
ends just before it enters Kearns. The Regional 
T ransportation Plan (Wasaatch Choice), prepared 
by Wasatch Front Regional Council, shows that trail 
eventually being extended to follow the canal through 
the Commercial Redevelopment Opportunity Character 
Area in Kearns. Access to the Utah and Salt Lake Canal 
T rail would expand recreational opportunities for Kearns 
residents while potentially drawing more visitors and 
customers into the Municipality.
Challenges: Several challenges must be addressed to ensure 
the long-term success of this character area.
• Regional Competition: While the land included in 
the Commercial Redevelopment Opportunity Character 
Area belongs to Kearns, it is immediately adjacent to 
land owned by West Valley City. This surrounding land 
is used primarily for commercial purposes, and hosts 
businesses such as Smith’ s Grocery, Home Depot, 
Harbor Freight, Walmart, and chain restaurants. While 
the success of West Valley City’ s commercial node can 
help boost the success of this character area, Kearns 
will be competing with that already existing commercial 
area for business. The Commercial Redevelopment 
Opportunity Character Area must offer a unique 
experience or draw upon customers that are coming to 
the area for the businesses offered in West Valley City. 
Either way, commercial success will be dependent in 
some way upon what is happening across municipal 
borders.
• Vacant and Underutilized Properties: This area 
includes strip mall buildings with vacant storefronts, and 
large swaths of unused paved surface parking. These 
vacant and underutilized properties may drawn down the 
property values of surrounding lots. However, they also 
provide space for future infill and redevelopment. Infill is 
typically more expensive than greenfield development 
(development on land that has not previously been 
developed), but this Character Area represents one 
of the few areas in Kearns where commercial activities 
would be welcome and viable.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 46
Case Study: Boise Vista Avenue Corridor 
Planning Project
Commercial Redevelopment Opportunity: 
Future Vision
Vista Avenue, a gateway corridor to Boise, struggled 
with economic development, transportation, and health 
concerns. Multiple entities, including the Urban Land 
Institute, local planners and engineers, and community 
members, worked together to ideate how to redevelop 
the commercial corridor.  They sought to eliminate blight, 
promote infill, introduce streetscape beautification, and 
install welcome signage. A large concern was the narrow 
sidewalk placed immediately adjacent to the fast-moving 
(but underutilized) five-land road. The road noise, 
unattractive pathway, and safety concerns discouraged 
pedestrian and cyclists from using it.
From the extensive studies and public engagement 
process, major recommendations emerged. These 
included decreasing the number of vehicle lanes from 
five to three, adding protected bike lanes, increasing 
the sidewalk width, beautifying the sidewalk with 
landscaping, adding murals and artwork to key 
commercial nodes, and linking businesses to façade 
grants.
Learn more here.
Vision: this area will remain a commercial corridor, 
but will receive additional design and infrastructure 
considerations, to promote the corridor as a gateway to 
Kearns.
The annual average daily traffic (AADT) load on 4700 S as 
it passes by the Commercial Redevelopment Opportunity 
Character Area exceeds 28,000 (UDOT , 2016). An 
opportunity exists to capture dollars from that local traffic, while 
improving access of surrounding residential neighborhoods to 
commercial services. This character area should promote infill 
development of commercial retail, eateries, and services, while 
enhancing aesthetic appeal through landscaping,signage, 
and property maintenance.
Two of the ‘Weaknesses’ 
identified by Kearns residents 
during the SWOT Analysis were 
“Lack of commercial businesses 
throughout the township” and “Lack of 
developable land”. With only twenty-
one acres of undeveloped land in 
Kearns, new commercial opporunities 
will have to be found in the existing: 
through infill and redevelopment. 
The Commercial Redevelopment 
Opportunity Character Area offers just 
that.
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: between 2:1 and 3:1
T arget Building Heights: 1-3 stories
T arget Maximum Density: 0 dwelling units per acre
Primary Uses: general commercial – retail, food services, 
automotive, other services
Prohibited Uses: outdoor storage, intense uses (noise, light 
generating)
Parking and Unloading: on-site, off-street
Other Design Features: 
• The perimeter and interior of parking lots should be 
landscaped to buffer the sight of automobiles as well 
as decrease impervious ground cover and reduce urban 
heat island effects.
• All lighting should be fully shielded to reduce light 
pollution.
• Opportunities for a signaled pedestrian crossing where 
the canal trail will pass should be considered.
• Signage should be designed at both the pedestrian and 
automobile scale.
47
Example Zoning Categories:
Kalamazoo Neighborhood Shopping Center District: 
This zone (Kalamazoo, MI) allows for small-scale commercial 
retail and service uses in areas primarily intended to serve 
residential neighborhoods. The development standards in 
this zone encourage heights and densities that are compatible 
with surrounding residential character.
Salt Lake City Corridor Commercial District: This Salt 
Lake City, UT , zone provides for economically viable and 
environmentally attractive commercial development along 
transportation corridors and arterials. The zone emphasizes 
providing commercial access for people walking and biking as 
well as for automobiles. The maximum height in the Corridor 
Commercial District is 30 feet, which is approximately two 
stories.
Figure 2-17: Vista Avenue in Boise, ID serves as a commercial 
corridor and entryway into the Vista Neighborhood. 
Improvements such as landscaping and entryway signage 
have improved the appeal of the Corridor both for commercial 
entities and for the residents that live there. (Photo credit: ULI, 
2015)
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 48
Kearns Town Center: E X I ST I N G
Kearns Town 
Center
Character Area Snapshot:
T otal Area: 30.4 acres
• 31 dwelling units (1.0 per acre)
• Estimated population of 133 people (2,800 
people per sq. mile)
• Commercial Area: 21.8 acres
• Government & Institutional Area: 2.8 acres
• Industrial Area: 0.4 acres
• Multi Family Residential Area: 0.5 acres
• Vacant Area: 0.2 acres
• Other Area: 4.8 acres
T otal Market Value: $24,061,900
• Zoned C-2 and PF
• 32 businesses
• Commercial Building Square Footage: 
252,692
• Government & Institutional Building 
Square Footage: 5,734
• Industrial Building Square Footage: 8,113
• Multi Family Residential Building Square 
Footage: 9,004
49
Location: The Kearns T own Center occupies the blocks 
immediately north and south of W 5415 S. The western border 
is S 4270 W and the eastern border is S 4015 W. 
Current Conditions: This is one of the primary commercial 
nodes for Kearns. The area is home to Walgreens, Big 
Lots, Rancho Markets, Auto Zone, and an assortment of 
restaurants, retailers, and other service-providers. The Kearns 
Library, currently being redeveloped, is also located within this 
site. The T own Center is served by UTA Bus Route 54, which 
runs to Murray Central Station. Sidewalk infrastructure is in 
place, but the walk is uncomfortable due to high traffic volume, 
abundant curb cuts, and lack of vegetative shade and buffer. 
The area is largely autocentric: oriented to the automobile 
and dominated by surface parking and impervious paving. 
Kearns T own Center benefits from close proximity to residential 
neighborhoods, schools, and Bangerter Highway. A T own 
Center Master Plan was recently drafted to guide the future 
development of this site. Plans for the community-gathering 
place are still fresh in residents’ minds and were discussed often 
in the community engagement process for this General Plan.
Assets: several assets can be leveraged to encourage the 
long-term success of the proposed Kearns T own Center 
Character Area.
• Small Business Hub: The Kearns T own Center 
Character Area already has a major strength: it is the 
home of over twenty Kearns’ small businesses! These 
businesses keep consumer spending in the local economy. 
Many provide goods that are unique to the Municipality 
and contribute to the identity of Kearns. For example, 
Panaderia Dulcinea is a local bakery serving a variety 
of beautifully prepared American and Latin American 
sweets. These small business form the backbone of the 
Figure 2-18: Looking down 5400 S toward the T own Center  (Google Maps  2019).
local economy and should continue to be supported in 
this area.
• Library Anchor: The Kearns T own Center Character 
Area will benefit greatly from the presence of the Library, 
currently under redevelopment. The Library creates a 
natural draw to the T own Center. Once people are in 
the T own Center (perhaps enjoying the Library’ s coming 
outdoor plaza), they are likely to be drawn into other 
businesses: perhaps smelling an aromatic cup of coffee, 
or noticing a sale at a new vinyl store across the street. 
In this way, the library serves as an anchor for the T own 
Center. It brings in more customers than a single business 
could alone, but those customers are also likely to visit 
other destinations including shops and restaurants.
• Kearns T own Center Master Plan: A Kearns T own 
Center Master Plan was prepared for this site in 2019 
and has received a lot of support from the community. 
The T own Center Master Plan creates a vision for the 
T own Center which is further supported by this Land Use 
Element. The full plan is included in the Appendix.
Challenges: the following challenges must be addressed 
to ensure the viability of the T own Center as a community-
gathering space and hub of economic activity.
• Regional Influences: The Kearns T own Center shares a 
border with the City of T aylorsville. Surrounding uses are 
largely commercial and oriented toward the automobile. 
Although the T own Center is intended to be walkable 
and bike-friendly, much of this will depend on the design 
of the built environment and transportation system next 
door in T aylorsville as well. Plans for redevelopment in this 
area must be communicated and collaborated upon with 
adjacent municipal leaders.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 50
Case Study: Old Town Lansing, MI Kearns Town Center: Future Vision
Old T own Lansing once served as the downtown district 
for Northern Lansing and the site of lodging, food, and 
entertainment for visitors to Michigan’ s Capitol Building 
(Old T own Commercial Association 2020). But by the 
late 20th Century, in keeping with national trends and the 
shift to the suburbs, visitors to Old T own became sparse. 
Many businesses fled, leaving abandoned buildings and 
quiet streets. Old T own lost its status as a destination 
and became a place that people merely drove past or 
forgot about altogether.
A series of fortunate events, beginning with the 1996 
establishment of a Main Street Program in Old T own, 
has led to the redevelopment and revitalization of the 
area. The addition of street landscaping, public artwork 
(focused on the area’ s rail history and eccentric residents), 
and outdoor seating has attracted pedestrians back 
to the neighborhood. Quirky restaurants and art 
boutiques have opened up in the historic storefronts 
saved from dilapidation. And the Old T own Commercial 
Association formed to organize revitalization efforts, 
including hosting themed commercial events to support 
businesses and attract visitors. T oday, Old T own serves 
as a gathering place for local residents and tourists, who 
enjoy meals outside, time wandering unique shops, and 
strolls along the Grand River. 
Like the Kearns T own Center, Old T own consists of only 
a few blocks in the heart of a metropolitan area. But by 
investing in its unique assets, Old T own positioned itself 
as a community destination.
Vision: “The Kearns T own Center will create a healthy 
gathering place that is representative of the diverse 
community, reflective of our history, connects residents, 
business owners and visitors to each other, and provides 
opportunities for learning and enrichment.” (Kearns 
T own Center Master Plan 2019)
Although commercial development will exist in other parts 
of the Municipality, the community intends for this to be the 
primary shopping and dining district. Rather than a car-
oriented landscape, Kearns residents desire a space that is 
welcoming to walkers and bikers and provides opportunities to 
gather. The construction of the new Kearns Library and Plaza 
will be a significant contribution toward this new vision.
T o ensure unique, high-quality development, specific design 
standards will need to be adopted for this Character Area.
Figure 2-19: Outdoor eating in Old T own Lansing (Pablo’ s Old 
T own  2020)
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: 3:1
T arget Building Heights: 1-4 stories
T arget Maximum Density: up to 25 du per acre
Primary Uses: residential, transit hub, commercial, civic, 
eateries and parks
Prohibited Uses: industrial, warehouse
Parking and Unloading: shared parking and on-street 
parking (if possible after redevelopment and traffic-calming 
measures); all parking and unloading areas should be 
located behind the storefronts.
Other Design Features: 
• Standards for ground floor transparency
• Consideration of awnings, street trees, signage, and 
lighting to contribute to human scale and sense of 
enclosure
• Use of traditional and/or place-based building materials
• Storefronts oriented to the front with parking hidden in 
the back
51
Figure 2-20: Holladay Village utilizes many of the urban 
design features that contribute to a quality place. Unique 
paving patterns make the village center memorable. The use 
of clear glass (transparency) on the first floor of buildings 
adds energy to the street by allowing pedestrians to window 
shop and experience uses occurring indoors. Outdoor 
Example Zoning Categories:
Holladay Village Zone: Holladay, UT , created the 
Holladay Village Zone for its town center development. This 
zone encourages pedestrian-oriented shopping, recreation, 
and entertainment uses. The primary audience of the 
Holladay Village is intended to be residents of Holladay, UT. 
However, the unique character of the development is likely to 
draw customers from other nearby municipalities. Holladay 
village allows a maximum of 24 du per acre, and maximum 
building heights allowed range from 32 - 40 ft depending on 
where a building is located within the zone. Height exceptions 
are granted for landmark architectural features such as bell 
towers, steeples, or clocks.
seating encourages visitors to spend some time, rather than 
just passing through. And vegetation breaks up impervious 
surfaces while adding some interest to the street scape. 
(Photo credit: Niche Homes, 2019).
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 52
Recreation Hub: E X I ST I N G
Character Area Snapshot:
T otal Area: 195.5 acres
• Parks, Recreation Facilities, and 
Open Space Area: 107 .7 acres
• Government & Institutional Area: 
60.1 acres
The Recreation Hub is a center of recreational, sport, and 
outdoor activities for Kearns residents. Its nine recreation 
and education-related businesses employ a total of 408 
employees. Estimated annual sales volume exceeds $19 
million, much of which comes from the Utah Olympic Oval 
and Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness Center (KOPFC).
Street View of Shadow Ridge (MH Village 2020).
Figure 2-21: Street view of Fitness Center with Olympic Oval in background 
(Google Maps 2019)
T otal Market Value: $34,896,400
• Zoned PF and PI
• 9 businesses, 408 employees
• Estimated Sales V olume: $19,232,000
• Parks and Recreation Building Square 
Footage: 265,889
• Government & Institutional Building 
Square Footage: 444,889
Recreation 
Hub
53
Location: The Recreation Hub includes two blocks divided by 
S Cougar Lane. The block to the west includes the Olympic 
Oval, Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness Center, Oquirrh Park,and 
the Beehive Elementary School. The east block contains 
Kearns High School and stretches north to W 5415 S.
Current Conditions: This area currently serves as the 
major landmark for Kearns. The Olympic Oval was used 
during the 2002 Winter Olympics hosted by Salt Lake City, 
and it still attracts international competitions. Oquirrh Park 
is one of the largest parks in the western portion of Salt Lake 
County and offers several amenities, including baseball 
fields, basketball courts, swimming facilities, a skatepark, 
and year-round programming. Although there are residential 
neighborhoods, churches, schools, and commercial nodes 
within proximity to the Recreation Hub, overall connectivity in 
this area is poor. Many residential streets end in cul-de-sacs 
at the area’ s periphery, with no paths allowing walkers and 
bikers  to continue on to the recreational amenities. In addition, 
crosswalks between the east and west blocks of the character 
area are sparse. Although Beehive Elementary School is on the 
same block as the park and fitness center, there are no paths 
connecting the school to the amenities. The Recreation Hub 
does receive transit service from UTA Bus Route 248 which 
connects to West Valley Central Station to the north and 
4800 W Red Line T rax Station to the south.
Assets: several assets contribute to the high quality of 
recreational and educational amenities available in the 
Recreation Hub Character Area.
• Utah Olympic Oval: The Utah Olympic Oval is a five-
acre facility with a 400-meter speed skating oval, located 
in the heart of the Recreation Hub. The Oval was built 
for the Olympics held in Salt Lake City in 2002, and no 
other ice oval in the world holds as many Olympic World 
Records. T oday, the Utah Olympic Oval continues to be 
the headquarters of the U.S. Speedskating T eam, but 
also hosts classes and leagues in figure skating, hockey, 
curling and running. The facility draws people from all 
over the world. Kearns has an opportunity to leverage 
this unique asset and capture spending and recognition 
from groups who visit the Olympic Oval.
• KOPFC: The Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness Center 
(KOPFC) is a hub of recreational activities for Kearns 
residents. Facilities include an indoor swimming pool, 
outdoor summer water park, tennis and pickleball courts, 
weight and cardio rooms, a gymnasium, and more. 
In addition to use of facilities, the KOPFC offers after-
school programs, fitness classes, day camps, and other 
programs to meet residents’ recreational and social 
needs. The KOPFC is open every day of the week and 
serves as an important amenity to the community.
• Viewshed: The Recreation Hub Character Area 
benefits from almost 360 degree mountain views. This 
viewshed is a unique part of Kearns’ identity and should 
be preserved and enhanced through careful design of 
the built environment.
Challenges: these challenges must be addressed to ensure 
the long-term success of the Recreation Hub as a community 
amenity.
• Limited Accessibility: The Recreation Hub Character 
Area is located in the center of Kearns and offers the 
largest variety of recreational amenities to residents. 
However, non-motorized access to this area is limited. 
T wo new developments have been approved for the area 
just south of the Recreation Hub, and neither provides 
connections to Kearns Oquirrh Park or other nearby 
facilities. Within the Recreation Hub, there is a shortage of 
pathways between desirable destinations. For example, 
there is no path connecting Beehive Elementary School 
to the after-school programs at KOPFC. Crosswalks 
across Cougar Lane in the vicinity of the Recreation 
Hub are also limited, available only at two locations: the 
KOPFC entrance and across from the Church of Latter 
Day Saints entrance.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 54
Case Study: Town Square Park, St.George Recreation Hub: Future Vision
St. George’ s T own Square Park shows off the region’ s 
unique geography and assets while providing recreation 
and entertainment for people of all ages and interests. 
Sure, there is not a lot of water in the City’ s actual desert 
environment, but the red rock used to accentuate the 
splash feature draws clear comparisons to the area’ s 
stunning red rock cliffs. The park is planned with the 
regional climate in mind, providing places for children to 
cool off on a hot day and for parents to sit in the shade. 
The park also goes above and beyond in celebrating 
St. George’ s rich culture and history. Several of the City’ s 
original buildings remain on the site, albeit with retrofitted 
uses. And artwork from local artists is on display 
throughout the T own Square. Wide, landscaped paths 
lead visitors directly from the park into the downtown’ s 
shops, restaurants, and entertainment venues. 
The experience had in T own Square Park is unique to St. 
George. The Recreation Hub is Kearns’ opportunity to 
apply these same principles in creating a destination that 
celebrates its unique community attributes.
What do residents love about 
their community? In the APAE 
Analysis, participants hoped to 
preserve the following amenities in 
the Recreation Hub:
• Utah Olympic Oval
• Green Space
• Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness Center
Figure 2-22: Water feature at T own Square Park in St.George 
(Pinterest 2020)
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: 1:2 to 1:1
T arget Building Heights: 1 - 2 stories
T arget Maximum Density: 0 du per acre
Primary Uses: parks and open space, civic, educational, 
accessory commercial uses, temporary and seasonal events
Prohibited Uses: high impact recreational uses (those 
that generate intense noises, smells, or heavily degrade the 
environment); overnight accommodations
Parking and Unloading: on-site, shared parking
Other Design Features: 
• Preservation of the viewshed
• Use of wayfinding signage externally and internally, 
oriented to both the automobile and pedestrian
• Use of walking and biking trails to connect various 
facilities within the Recreation Hub
Vision: The Recreation Hub will continue 
to provide family-friendly recreational and 
entertainment amenities, welcoming small-scale 
commercial activities when they are compatible 
and supplementary to existing uses, and honoring 
Kearns’ rich history through signs, markers, and 
exhibits. This will become a place where families of 
all sociodemographic backgrounds can spend an 
entire day playing, lounging, learning, and indulging 
in experiences and products unique to Kearns. 
The Recreation Hub is intended to provide the largest 
concentration of recreational amenities in Kearns. The 
character area seeks to integrate various facilities already 
available on-site, including the Utah Olympic Oval, Kearns 
Oquirrh Park Fitness Center, and local schools. Like the 
Kearns T own Center, the Recreation Hub will be a gathering 
place. However, the primary activities will be recreational in 
nature. Commercial uses may be allowed so long as they are 
supplementary to recreational activities. Potential compatible 
uses could include ice cream stands, farmer’ s markets, and 
equipment rental facilities.
55
Figure 2-23: Food is a great way to attract people to a 
place. Once they come, they are bound to stay a while: to eat, 
socialize, and play. Offering food service in the Recreation 
Hub is one way to get visitors to stay longer and spend more 
money locally. Every Thursday night in the summer, Daybreak 
organizes a food truck rally to bring the community together. 
Because food trucks are temporary and mobile, they are also 
a great way to test the feasibility of commercial activities in 
an area prior to infrastructure investment (Photo credit: Now 
Playing Utah 2019).
Example Zoning Categories:
Portland Open Space Zone: The Open Space Zone 
(Portland, OR) is intended to preserve and enhance public 
and private open space, recreational areas, and parks under 
a zone specific to these uses. The primary use of these lands 
is open space, but other uses are allowed conditionally, 
including: swimming pools, golf courses, cemeteries, ball 
fields, and similar accessory uses.
Portland Campus Institutional 1 Zone: Portland’ s 
Campus Institutional 1 Zone allows for mixed-uses intended 
for the development of a campus-like setting within a 
residential neighborhood. Allowable uses include educational 
facilities, civic buildings, medical facilities, and parks and 
open space. Campuses typically include internal walking 
paths, landscaping, and consistent architectural and design 
elements.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 56
Neighborhood Mixed Use: E X I ST I N G
Neighborhood 
Mixed Use
Character Area Snapshot:
T otal Area: 8.3 acres
• Entirely vacant, this character 
area represents one of the greatest 
opportunities for development 
remaining in Kearns.
• The land was previously owned 
by UDOT , and is thus classified as 
Government & Institutional Land. 
It was sold in December 2019 to a 
private holder.
T otal Market Value: $1,569,700
• Zoned R-M
Figure 2-24: Looking into Character Area 6 from S 5600 W (Google Maps 2019).
57
Location: The Neighborhood Mixed Use Character Area 
encompasses part of a vacant property bordered by W 5400 
S to the north and S 5600 W to the east. The northern part of 
the property is owned by West Valley City; the area discussed 
in this section includes only the Kearns-owned portion.
Current Conditions: The Neighborhood Mixed 
Use Character Area presents a prime opportunity for 
redevelopment in the heart of a residential district. The area is 
located near UTA Bus Routes 54 and F556. Route 54 also runs 
through the proposed Kearns T own Center and connects to 
the Murray Central Station. There is already some commercial 
development nearby, primarily serving the residential 
neighborhoods. Existing businesses include a McDonald’ s and 
two gas stations. The site benefits from beautiful views of the 
Oquirrh Mountain Range. Developments have been proposed 
for this site in the past, but none have come to fruition.
Assets: these assets can be leveraged to ensure the 
Neighborhood Mixed Use Character Area becomes an 
amenity to the surrounding community.
• Viewshed: This Character Area offers stunning views 
of the Oquirrh Mountains to the west. These views 
could add value to future residential and commercial 
uses, especially if attention is given to the experience of 
the public realm. Will future residents be able to watch 
sunsets from their balconies? Will first-floor cafes spill 
out onto the sidewalk so that customers can enjoy the 
morning mountain air with their coffee?  These views 
represent an important part of life in Utah and should 
be preserved to the maximum extent possible while still 
developing this land to its full potential.
• T ransit Access: Although no bus lines run directly past 
the Character Area, UTA Bus Routes 54 and F556 
make stops nearby (along 5400 S). Bus Route 54 
connects transit riders to Murray Central Station, with 
service to many destinations throughout the valley. A 
wide sidewalk already exists along 5600 W that could 
deliver future residents in the Neighborhood Mixed Use 
Area to the nearby bus stops. T ransit access could be 
further leveraged through the introduction of sheltered 
bus stops and landscaped buffers between sidewalks 
and roadway traffic.
Challenges: challenges are present on this site which must be 
addressed to ensure the success of a neighborhood mixed use 
development.
• Adjacent to Vacant Land Owned by West 
Valley City: The land immediately to the north of 
the Neighborhood Mixed Use Character Area is also 
vacant, but it is under the jurisdiction of West Valley City. 
The City has zoned the land C-2 (General Commercial). 
This zone allows for several types of commercial activities 
that may not necessarily be desirable next to a walkable, 
small-scale residential mixed-use development, 
including: automobile sales, fast food restaurants, and 
commercial parking lots. Future planning efforts should 
be made in collaboration with West Valley City. And the 
vision for this area may need to be adjusted over time if 
the character of surrounding land uses changes.
• Surrounded by Single-Family Residential 
Neighborhoods: The current use of the land 
surrounding this site is primarily single-family residential. 
While limited commercial uses will ultimately be beneficial 
to residents in this area, there is likely to be some tension 
as development is proposed for an area that today 
acts as open space for all intents and purposes. These 
tensions can be mitigated by design and landscaping 
standards that ensure development is compatible with 
surrounding neighborhoods, preserves viewsheds, and is 
accessible via non-motorized trails.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 58
Case Study: Small-Scale Mixed-Use 
Building in Philadelphia 
Neighborhood Mixed-Use: Future Vision
This mixed-use building emerged as an infill project 
in Philadelphia’ s Northern Liberties Neighborhood. 
It benefited the neighborhood by adding additional 
housing units and commercial space. But the building 
did not disturb the existing urban fabric. At three 
stories high (one commercial and two residential), the 
building matches the scale of surrounding development. 
T raditional building materials such as stone and brick 
help the building blend into its historic surroundings. 
First level transparency allows visitors to window shop, 
bringing some of the interior energy to the outside public 
realm. Similarly, balconies attached to the residential 
units provide private outdoor space for residents and 
add to street activity on this corner. On-street parking 
serves to buffer people walking on the sidewalk from 
street traffic.
Vision: the neighborhood mixed use area will offer 
diverse housing typologies, integrated with small-
scale commercial uses. The area is intended to serve 
the basic commercial needs of existing residential 
neighborhoods while promoting new, compatible 
housing development.
The future vision for the Neighborhood Mixed Use Character 
Area works toward several goals:
• Improving residential access to commercial needs;
• Providing new, diverse housing stock;
• Buffering existing residential neighborhoods from traffic 
along 5600 W; and
• Preserving Kearns’ views of the Oquirrh Mountains.
This is expected to happen through the development of a small-
scale, mixed-use residential and commercial neighborhood. 
The neighborhood should be established on a grid street 
pattern, connecting to existing stub streets directly to the west. 
Uses will primarily serve existing residential neighborhoods 
and any new on-site residential units.
Participants in the SWOT 
Analysis identified a “lack of 
diverse housing opportunities” 
as a weakness in Kearns. New 
opportunities for mixed-use may 
provide housing types not currently 
available in Kearns, and accommodate 
residents of various backgrounds and 
lifestyle preferences.
Figure 2-25: N. 2nd Street in the Northern Liberties Neighborhood 
(Geeting 2016)
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: 1:1 to 2:1
T arget Building Heights: 1-3 stories
T arget Meximum Density: up to 15 du per acre
Primary Uses: residential, neighborhood commercial
Prohibited Uses: high impact commercial/industrial, 
outdoor storage, single-family detached homes
Parking and Unloading: on-site, off-street, shared parking
Other Design Features: 
• Preservation of the viewshed
• T ransparency on the first-floor of mixed-use buildings
• Internal pathways for people walking or biking
• Landscaped entryways and parking lots
59
Example Zoning Categories:
Kalamazoo Residential Mixed Use Zone: This 
Kalamazoo, MI, zone accommodates a variety of housing 
types. The primary purpose of the zone is residential, but the 
zone is applied in areas where strict separation of uses is not 
necessary (and commercial uses are viable and desirable). 
Specific design standards accompany this zone depending 
on the location of a site within the City.
Farmington, UT Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone: 
Farmington’ s Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone allows for a 
mixing of residential and commercial uses under a Planned 
Center development process. This process allows for the 
creation of a site layout that determines where specific uses will 
be allowed. The zone allows for medium-density residential 
development where such development is compatible with 
surrounding character.
Figure 2-24: This example of commercial mixed-use from 
Portland features buildings that strongly resemble single-
family homes. Residential units occupy the top two floors, while 
retail, eateries, and personal service uses are allowed on the 
ground floor. The design fits into the surrounding residential 
neighborhoods and increases the amenities that residents 
have access to. On-street parking buffers pedestrians from 
traffic. (Photo credit: Portland Zoning, 2020).
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 60
Kearns Corner: E X I ST I N G
Kearns Corner
Character Area Snapshot:
T otal Area: 17 .6 acres
• 95 dwelling units (5.4 per 
acre), all in  Summit Senior 
Living Facility
• Population unknown: Summit 
Senior Living offers short-term 
and long-term stays.
• Government & Institutional 
Area: 6.5 acres
• Commercial Area: 5.8 acres
• Multi Family Residential 
Area: 3.9 acres
Figure 2-25: Summit Senior Living facility, looking east (Summit Senior Living  
2016).
T otal Market Value: 
$28,846,400
• Zoned C-2 and R-1-8
• 8 businesses
• Government & Institutional 
Building Square Footage: 0
• Commercial Building 
Square Footage: 32,102
• Multi Family Residential 
Square Footage: 163,200
61
Location: This character area includes the commercial center 
around Walgreens at the intersection of W 6200 S and S 
5600 W. It also includes three undeveloped parcels: two north 
of the commercial center on the east side of 5600 W, and 
directly west (across 5600 W) of the commercial center.
Current Conditions: This area is located at another 
primary entrance into Kearns. Kearns Corner is surrounded 
by residential uses on all sides except for the south, which is 
adjacent to a commercial node in West Valley City. The area 
is serviced by UTA Bus Routes F556 and 54, which runs all 
the way to Murray Central Station. The existing commercial 
buildings are well-kept, and room exists for infill development. 
One of the only senior living facilities in Kearns, Summit Senior 
Living, is located in this character area.
Assets: Kearns Corner already serves as a strong commercial 
node for Kearns. The following assets contribute to the 
Character Area’ s success.
• Mixed-Use: This Character Area exhibits horizontal 
mixed-use, with a senior living facility located directly 
adjacent to commercial retail, eateries, and services. 
The presence of the residential facility gives commercial 
businesses immediate access to some of their potential 
market. This also creates an opportunity to reduce 
vehicle miles driven and improve senior independence, 
as residents may be able to fulfill several basic needs just 
by walking out their front door to the commercial area.
• Available Land: There are approximately 6.5 acres 
of undeveloped land remaining in this character area 
(shown as Government and Institutional land on the 
map to the left). This land could be utilized to further 
enhance services and amenities for seniors, whether that 
be the siting of a small medical clinic or the provision of 
additional park and open space.
Challenges: Several challenges will need to be addressed to 
ensure the future success of this area.
• Access to Parks: Although there are several parks in 
the vicinity of Kearns Corner, they are not necessarily 
accessible. For example, to access Impressions Park 
(the nearest park facility) from Summit Senior Living, 
a resident would have to walk through parking areas 
without sidewalks to 6200 S, where the sidewalk is 
unbuffered from busy street traffic. Few residents would 
be comfortable with such a walk. Lack of accessibility 
could be addressed through foot trails between 
destinations or the addition of park or open space either 
privately (within Summit Senior Living) or publicly on 
vacant land surrounding existing commercial areas.
• Senior Mobility: Walking between the senior living 
facility and adjacent commercial uses could also be 
hindered because of the lack of an internal sidewalk 
network. Pathways from Summit Senior Living to the 
Walgreens Pharmacy and to Mountain America 
Credit Union should particularly be prioritized. New 
development should add to an expanding internal path 
network. Bus Routes 54 and F556 also make stops near 
Kearns Corner. These stops should be given priority 
consideration for improvements such as bus shelters and 
posted schedules, so that seniors can realistically rely on 
transit to reach desired destinations.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 62
Supporting Seniors Kearns Corner: Future Vision
Kearns Corner is the site of a senior living facility and some 
commercial uses.  While the area includes businesses, 
such as Walgreens, that provide goods and services 
useful to seniors, the current transportation system limits 
seniors’ access to these goods and services. The area is 
currently auto-centric: vast parking lots surround each 
building with no pedestrian pathways linking them. Any 
medians are raised, preventing someone using a cane, 
walker, or wheelchair from using these medians to avoid 
walking in traffic. So how do we plan to be attentive to 
the needs of seniors in this character area?
• Ensure that crosswalk times are sufficiently long, 
allowing for all to safely cross.
• Investigate where pathways can be created to 
separate people from vehicles.
• Make sure businesses are compliant with ADA 
accessibility standards.
• For any public seating, use mobility-conscious 
design, such as sturdy handlebars.
• Use lever handles for doors rather than knobs. 
Looking for other ways to support seniors in the built 
environment? Check out these guides.
APA Aging in Community Policy Guide
AARP Home Modifications to Promote Independent 
Living
Vision: Kearns Corner will continue to provide essential 
neighborhood commercial uses, while also providing 
exceptional living facilities and services for Kearns’ 
seniors.
Looking forward, senior housing should be preserved and 
enhanced in Kearns Corner. Additional facilities should be 
pursued for the site, especially those that provide essential 
senior services (medical, community centers, civic and post 
office, and walkable commercial spaces). Existing parking 
areas may be infilled over time to create a denser, walkable 
built environment. Finally, efforts must be taken to improve 
access to parks and recreational space, whether private 
or public. This may occur through enhancement of vacant 
spaces, provision of community gardens, or added walking 
trails between Summit Senior Living and Impressions Park.
What opportunities did 
Workshop participants identify
for improving quality of life for seniors 
in Kearns?
• Create more senior housing 
opportunities, both independent 
and assisted living
• Provide enhanced elderly services, 
including assistance with yard 
maintenance and snow removal
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: up to 3:1
T arget Building Heights: 1-4 stories
T arget Maximum Density: 25 du per acre, senior housing.
Primary Uses: neighborhood commercial, senior and 
accessible housing, civic, medical, senior support services, 
parks and open space
Prohibited Uses: heavy commercial or industrial uses
Parking and Unloading: on-site, off-street, opportunities 
for shared parking
Other Design Features: 
• Internal pathways for people walking and biking
• Internal wayfinding signage
• Buildings oriented to the street
• Landscaping of parking lots and streetscapes
63
Example Zoning Categories:
Perris, CA Senior Housing Overlay Zone: The Senior 
Housing Overlay Zone (Perris, CA) encourages senior 
housing development that is compatible with the surrounding 
built environment and located near essential services. The 
zone allows for higher density and mixed-use development in 
exchange for higher design and performance standards.
Westport, CT Senior Residential Community Zone: 
Westport’ s Senior Residential Community Zone allows for 
development of uses in a way that would allow seniors 
autonomy in their everyday lives. This zone accommodates 
senior living, essential services, and parks and open spaces in 
planned developments. This zone encourages design of the 
built environment in a way that considers the special needs 
and preferences of seniors.
Kalamazoo Neighborhood Shopping Center District: 
This zone (Kalamazoo, MI) allows for small-scale commercial 
retail and service uses in areas primarily intended to serve 
residential neighborhoods. The development standards in 
this zone encourage heights and densities that are compatible 
with surrounding residential character.
Figure 2-26: Sagewood at Daybreak provides an example of 
the diverse uses a zone would need to accommodate to allow 
for a complete senior living community. Sagewood provides 
housing, dining services, and recreational spaces. It is also 
located adjacent to several Daybreak amenities, including 
medical facilities, restaurants, and an extensive trail system 
(Photo credit: Sagewood at Daybreak, 2020).
(Figure 2-27: Photo credit: Sagewood at Daybreak, 2020).
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 64
Walkable Commercial Center: E X I ST I N G
Walkable 
Commercial 
Center
Character Area Snapshot:
T otal Area: 13.1 acres
• 0 dwellings; no residential population
• Commercial Area: 12.0 acres
• Other Area: 1.1 acres
T otal Market Value: $14,094,300
• Zoned C-2
• 16 businesses
• Commercial Building Square 
Footage: 111,757
Moderate 
Income 
Housing 
Opportunities
Figure 2-28: Street View of Harmon’ s Grocery Store and Parking (Google 
Maps, 2019).
65
Location: The Walkable Commercial Center Character Area 
encompasses the commercial node located in the northwest 
quadrant of the intersection of W 6200 S and S Cougar Lane.
Current Conditions: The shopping plaza currently hosts 
Harmon’ s Grocery Store, a 7-Eleven gas station, a UPS store, 
and several eating establishments. The site is dominated by 
surface parking and does not feature any bus stops (although 
two routes pass by). Residential neighborhoods surround the 
commercial node, except for on the east side, where a few 
more commercial entities exist. Despite the proximity, access 
between the residential neighborhoods and grocery store is 
limited. A wall behind Harmon’ s prevents pedestrians from 
accessing the plaza from the residential road to the north.
Assets: Several assets contribute to the present and future 
success of the Walkable Commercial Center.
• Sidewalk Connection to Adjacent Neighborhood: 
Although there is a screening wall running behind 
Harmon’ s Grocery in the Walkable Commercial Center, 
a small gap was left to allow pedestrian access. A paved 
path runs through the gap and connects to the sidewalk 
in the neighborhood immediately north of the Walkable 
Commercial Center. This design allows residents in the 
surrounding neighborhoods to access the Walkable 
Commercial Center Character Area without an 
automobile, affording greater autonomy to seniors, 
youth, and other individuals who may not have access to 
a personal vehicle or the ability to drive.
• Potential for Future Infill Development: A lot of 
the land in this Character Area is currently being used 
for surface parking lots. But all of that parking may 
not be needed in the future. T rends like ride-sharing 
and progression toward the autonomous vehicle may 
reduce parking demand. Similarly, improvements 
to infrastructure in and around the residential 
neighborhoods may encourage more people to walk 
or bike to the commercial center rather than getting in 
a vehicle. As demand for parking changes over time, it 
may be possible to convert areas of the parking lots to 
more productive uses. In the SWOT and APAE Analysis, 
residents expressed a desire for more dining options, 
small businesses, and places for family entertainment.
Challenges: There are also several challenges that need to 
be addressed in the Walkable Commercial Center Character 
Area.
• High T raffic on 6200 S and Cougar Lane: Both 
6200 S and Cougar Lane have traffic volumes in this 
area that meet or exceed 14,000 AADT (UDOT , 2016). 
Speeds limits along these roads are 35 mph, although 
that is no guarantee that drivers adhere to posted 
limits. With high traffic volumes and moderate speeds, 
Cougar Lane and 6200 S can serve as barriers to 
people walking or biking. This may prevent individuals 
without automobile access in the residential areas east 
and south of the Walkable Commercial Center from 
shopping here. The only pedestrian crossings close to 
this Character Area occur at the intersection of 6200 
S and Cougar Lane. There are no mid-block crossings. 
People walking to the area must travel a greater distance 
to the crosswalk or risk their safety by trying to cross on 
their own in places closer to their origin or destination. 
Once people reach the Character Area, conflict with the 
automobile is not over. The parking areas are designed 
for motorists, and fail to consider how people will get 
from their cars to store entrances. The area would benefit 
from an internal network of pathways and crossings.
• Competition: Local competition could possibly create 
a challenge for the Walkable Commercial Center 
Character Area in the future. The retail spaces in this 
plaza were built in 1994. Another commercial area with 
a grocery store anchor is located just one mile west of 
this Character Area. The Walmart Supercenter plaza at 
the intersection of 6200 S and 5600 W in West Valley 
City was built in 2004 and later (ten years later than 
the Walkable Commercial Center). The area features 
landscaping and an internal network of sidewalks that 
make it easy for people walking and biking to access 
commercial entities. Unlike the Walkable Commercial 
Center, this Walmart Supercenter area also receives 
direct service from UTA Bus Routes 54, 62, and F556. 
Several improvements may need to be made to the 
Walkable Commercial Center Character Area so that it 
can compete with nearby commercial plazas.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 66
Case Study: Harmon’s Groceries at 
Bangerter Crossing and Seventh Street
Walkable Commercial Center: Future Vision
What makes a commercial center “walkable?” Examining 
two Harmon’ s Groceries—Bangerter Crossing and 7th 
Street—provides some clues as to the key features of 
walkable commercial areas. 
 
Vision: the primary purpose of this area will remain 
small-scale commercial uses, centered around the 
grocery store, to serve surrounding residential areas. 
Active transportation infrastructure improvements will 
connect this character area to apartment complexes 
and future townhomes to the east. Over time, infill of 
existing surface parking lots may be feasible.
This Character Area will continue to serve neighborhood 
commercial needs, but in the future, development will 
be oriented more toward people than the automobile. 
The Walkable Commercial Center will provide important 
opportunities for people without access to a personal 
automobile, especially those living directly adjacent to the 
area, to access groceries and personal services. For this to be 
possible, future development should utilize an internal network 
of pathways. Landscaping should seek to buffer visitors from 
traffic on 6200 S and enhance the overall experience of 
walking through the commercial cluster.
One respondent to the MSD’s
Transportation and Land Use
Survey marked this character area 
as an important area in Kearns because 
it offers walkable access to groceries and 
other food. When a household can use 
non-motorized transportation to meet 
daily needs, they save money on fuel and 
maintenance costs. They also allow the 
non-drivers (like elders or children) in their 
household to be more independent.
Figure 2-30: Street view of Harmon’ s Seventh Street (Google Maps 2019)
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: 2:1
T arget Building Heights: 1-2 stories
T arget Maximum Density: 0 du per acre
Primary Uses: neighborhood commercial (grocery stores, 
eateries, personal and financial services)
Prohibited Uses: residential, high-impact commercial, 
industrial uses
Parking and Unloading: on-site, off-street, opportunities 
for shared parking
Other Design Features: 
• Entryways and interior parking lots should be landscaped
• Encourage an internal network of pathways for walking 
and biking (providing opportunities for bike parking)
• Outdoor lighting should be fully-shielded
Figure 2-29: Street view of Harmon’ s Bangerter Crossing (Google Maps 2019)
• Wide, accessible, and clearly designated 
pedestrian pathway that goes directly to the 
entrance
• Obvious, well-maintained, painted crosswalks
• Lighting and landscaping
• Landscaped entryway
• Multiple commercial uses (for one-trip shopping)
67
Example Zoning Categories:
Salt Lake City Community Business District: This zone 
allows for moderate-sized commercial areas to develop 
alongside residential neighborhoods. Design standards ensure 
that the commercial area serves neighborhood needs without 
creating adverse impacts through light, noise, smell, or sight.
Figure 2-31: Although this T arget, at the District in South Jordan, 
offers ample surface parking, considerations are still make for 
pedestrian traffic through the shopping area. People walking 
enjoy wide pathways marked by different paving materials and 
human-scale lighting fixtures. These pathways run down center 
aisles, delivering people from their automobiles to the storefront. 
A wide plaza in front of the store provides space for people to wait 
with their shopping carts, while simultaneously creating a bulb-
out which forces automobiles driving along that stretch to slow 
down. These small details create an environment that is more 
welcoming to walkers and bikers and provides opportunities for 
people to access daily needs without necessarily owning or being 
able to operate an automobile. (Photo credit: Google Street View, 
2020).
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 68
Moderate Income Housing Opportunities: E X I ST I N G
Moderate 
Income 
Housing 
Opportunities
Character Area Snapshot:
T otal Area: 34.2 acres
• 267 dwelling units (7 .8 per acre)
• Estimated population of 1,148     
(21,484 people per square mile)
• Multi Family Residential Area:       
15.1 acres
• Government & Institutional Area: 
5.8 acres
• Industrial: 4.5 acres
• Vacant Area: 6.3 acres (townhome 
project platted)
...
Walkable 
Commercial 
Center
Figure 2-32: Advertisement for Apartment Complex in Kearns (Carrington 
Square 2016).
T otal Market Value: $9,256,800
• Zoned R-M, PI, M-1, and C-2
• Multi Family Residential Building 
Square Footage: 283,737
• Government & Institutional 
Building Square Footage: 43,300
• Industrial Building Square 
Footage: 42,163
*Townhome project platted
69
Location: The Moderate Income Housing Opportunities 
Character Area is located east and west of the Union Pacific 
Railroad Line as it nears the southern border of Kearns. The 
character area includes Carrington Square, Entheos Academy 
- Kearns Campus, and Storage Etc. Kearns.
Current Conditions: The Moderate Income Housing 
Opportunities Character Area consists of approximately 
34.2 acres of land, the majority of which is used for residential 
purposes (including Carrington Square and a recently 
platted townhome project on 6200 S). Some industrial and 
institutional uses also exist currently on the site. The Savage 
Services Railroad cuts this character area in half and presents 
some challenges related to accessibility and noise. Although 
most of the land is already developed, there are opportunities 
here for redevelopment and infill. The Character Area is 
located along bus route 248.
Assets: The Moderate Income Housing Opportunities 
Character Area benefits from close proximity to daily needs 
and access to public transportation.
• Proximity to Walkable Commercial Center: 
Residents in this Character Area benefit from their 
proximity to the Walkable Commercial Center Character 
Area. Although Cougar Lane and the Union Pacific 
Railroad serve as barriers, there are still formal crossings 
along 6200 S to accommodate residents. A household 
living in the Moderate Income Housing Opportunities 
Character Area could gain access to groceries without 
owning a car. There may also be retail employment 
opportunities in the Walkable Commercial Center that 
could benefit these residents.
• Access to Bus Route 248: Bus Route 248 stops at 
Carrington Square in the Moderate Income Housing 
Opportunities Character Area. The bus stops every 
thirty minutes. As it travels north, the bus makes stops at 
the Recreation Hub Character Area, including Kearns 
High School, and at West Valley Central Station. Most 
major destinations in the Valley are accessible by transit 
from this point in Kearns. However, trips may be long or 
require multiple transfers. 
Challenges: Several challenges are present in this area and 
will impact the future success of the Moderate Income Housing 
Opportunities Character Area.
• Savage Services Corporation Railroad: The 
Savage Services Railroad runs through the middle of this 
Character Area, creating an east-west divide. T o access 
destinations on the other side of the railroad tracks, 
individuals must walk south to 6200 S, one of the only 
formal pedestrian crossings over the railroad tracks in 
Kearns. The railroad also creates noise disturbances, 
which may impact the desirability of housing units in this 
area. Future planning efforts could involve working with 
Savage Services to address noise and safety concerns.
• Increasing T raffic on Cougar Lane and 6200 S: 
Rising traffic volumes on 6200 S and Cougar Lane 
could also impact residential development in the 
Moderate Income Housing Opportunities Character 
Area. Residences may need to be shielded from the 
sight, sound, and smell of traffic through landscaping 
and other screening features. Additional safety 
improvements may need to be made, such as the 
addition of mid-block pedestrian crossings, to prevent 
residents from unsafely crossing through traffic. Finally, 
further study of Major T ransit Investment Corridor 6200 
S is needed to determine how the roadway expansion 
(see transportation element) will impact development in 
this area.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 70
Missing Middle Housing Moderate Income Housing Opportunities: 
Future Vision
Missing middle housing describes smaller multifamily 
buildings, somewhere in between single-family detached 
homes and large apartment buildings. Units that fit into 
this middle housing category are often compatible in 
scale and character to single-family homes, but they can 
offer more affordable and lower-maintenance housing 
options for populations with different needs. Middle 
housing includes stacked or side-by-side duplexes, 
fourplexes, courtyard apartments, and townhomes. 
It does not include mid-rise or high-rise apartment 
complexes. Learn more here.
Who needs missing middle housing? Working-class 
families, students, and young professionals generally 
cannot afford single family homes or luxury high-rise 
apartment units. In some areas, cost of living is so high 
that dual-income families must seek middle housing to 
avoid being housing cost-burdened.
Vision: this character area integrates new moderate-
income housing opportunities into existing multi-family 
residential development. The MIH Opportunities 
Character Area will continue to be served by UTA 
bus lines and will connect to the nearby ‘Walkable 
Commercial Center’.
This Character Area provides an opportunity to develop 
unique and “missing-middle” housing types to serve the needs 
of diverse Kearns residents. Future zoning should consider the 
benefit of locating housing for moderate- and low-income 
households in this area. which is served by transit and located 
near essential commercial and educational facilities. As 6200 
S is expanded (see the transportation element of this General 
Plan), care should be taken to buffer residential uses from any 
adverse impacts of increased traffic and congestion. 
94% of Transportation and 
Land Use Survey respondents
from Kearns identified ‘Affordability
of Housing’ as ‘Important’ or ‘Very 
Important’ to the future development 
of Kearns. But Kearns residents also 
responded that ‘High Standards for 
Design and Aesthetics’ were important 
to them (83%). During the Community 
Workshop, participants discussed 
their desire to avoid bad high-density 
housing. Middle-housing can provide 
attractive, small-scale affordable options.
(Opticos Design 2015)
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: 1:1 to 2:1
T arget Building Heights: 1-3 stories
T arget Maximum Density: up to 20 du per acre
Primary Uses: multifamily residential, single-family 
attached, limited commercial uses near transit stops
Prohibited Uses: industrial, single-family detached
Parking and Unloading: on-site, off-street
Other Design Features: 
• Landscaping should be utilized to shade structures and 
buffer non-residential uses
• Buildings should be designed at a scale compatible with 
surrounding uses.
 Figure 2-33: Missing Middle Housing Diagram.
71
Figure 2-34: This mid-century modern duplex provides 
a perfect example of missing middle housing. It falls 
somewhere between on the spectrum from detached 
single-family homes to mid- and high-rise apartment 
buildings. The duplex likely provides more affordable 
housing options for area residents. Notice that it is designed 
to emulate a single-family home, helping it to blend into its 
neighborhood residential surroundings (Pinterest 2020).
Example Zoning Categories:
Portland Residential Multi-Dwelling 1: Portland, OR 
has created this zone to apply to areas around commercial 
centers and corridors. It allows for small multi-family buildings 
as well as attached single-family homes, with the intent of 
providing housing choices and buffering detached single-
family home neighborhoods from more intense uses. 
Portland Residential Multi-Dwelling 2: The Residential 
Multi-Dwelling 2 zone is similar to the zone described above, 
except it allows for a slightly higher density of units. Design 
standards still work to ensure development is compatible with 
surrounding residential uses, as shown in Figure X. Portland 
allows limited commercial uses in this zone, primarily along 
corridors.
 Figure 2-35: Example Images from Portland’s Residential Multi-Dwelling 2 Zone.
Photos from Portland Zoning, 2020.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 72
The Neighborhood Residential Character Areas
Lodestone Residential Character Area Snapshot:
Y ear Built: primarily 1970s-1980s
Building Heights: primarily two-story, split-level
Median Lot Size: 0.17 acres
Median Building Area: 1,802 square feet
T otal Dwelling Units in Lodestone: 825
Net Density: 5.57 du per acre
Estimated Population: 3,053
Median T otal Market Value per Parcel (2018): $225,100
Design Features: deep front yard setbacks, split-level 
architecture, grassy park strips. 
Figure 2-36: Example of housing style in Lodestone Residential Character Area (T rulia, 2020).
The Neighborhood Residential Character Areas represent the five main residential areas in Kearns. The residents of Kearns take great 
pride in their residential neighborhoods. The main intent of this plan is to preserve these neighborhoods for primarily single-family and two-
family uses; however, neighborhoods have different needs and opportunities due to their layouts and relative locations. Thus, this section 
calls out the unique qualities of each neighborhood, setting the groundwork for targeted projects included in the work program at the end 
of this Chapter.
Lodestone Residential 
Character Area: Existing
73
Location: The Lodestone Residential Character Area is 
bounded by 5400 S to the north, 6200 S to the south, 
Mountain View Corridor T rail to the west, and the Special 
Utility Character Area to the east.
Current Conditions: This Character Area is named after its 
greatest amenity, Lodestone Park, which falls in both Kearns 
and West Valley City. The park is 60 acres in total, but only 10.5 
of those acres are located within the Municipality. Residents 
in this character area enjoy service from UTA Bus Routes 54 
and Flex 556, as well as good sidewalk conditions. Houses in 
the Lodestone Residential Character Area are more recently 
constructed relative to the majority of housing stock in Kearns. 
Front yards are deep, and grass is the primary vegetation in 
park strips.
Assets: Residents in the Lodestone Residential Character 
Area enjoy many amenities that contribute to quality of life.
• Lodestone Park: The most obvious amenity is close 
access to Lodestone Park. The majority of residents in 
this Residential Character Area live within a five or ten 
minute walk of the facility (Figure 2-3). Lodestone Park is 
approximately 60-acres and includes several one-of-a-
kind features, such as a mining-themed playground and 
a Utah Jazz basketball court. Visit the Salt Lake County 
Parks and Recreation Website for more information 
about Lodestone Park.
• T ransit Service: Residents of the Lodestone Residential 
Character Area also benefit from transit service by UTA 
Bus Routes 54, 62, and F556. Bus Route 54 comes to 
this Character Area every fifteen minutes, while Route 
62 arrives every thirty minutes. Using these transit routes, 
residents can reach a variety of destinations, including 
the Recreation Hub Character Area, the proposed 
Kearns T own Center, Fashion Place Mall, and Murray 
Central Station (with access to Front Runner and TRAX).
Challenges: There are challenges that impact life in the 
Lodestone Residential Character Area.
• Cul-de-sac Development: Much of this Residential 
Character Area was developed using cul-de-sacs and 
limited access streets. This limits the capacity of the street 
network and the ability of residents to get around without 
using an automobile. Although the pattern of the street 
network is difficult to change, accessibility could be 
improved through the addition of foot trails that directly 
connect important destinations.
Vision: Lodestone Residential Character Area will 
continue to provide high-quality, predominantly 
single-family housing, for residents of Kearns. Future 
planning efforts will seek to improve access to major 
amenities such as Lodestone Park, and enhance street 
scape landscaping to provide a quiet and attractive 
environment for households and families.
Lodestone Residential: Future Vision
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: NA
T arget Building Heights: 1-2 stories
T arget Maximum Density: 5-6 du per acre
Primary Uses: single-family residential, parks and open 
space, government and institutional
Prohibited Uses: industrial, large-scale commercial
Parking and Unloading: on-site off-street, and on-street
Other Design Features: 
• Encourage the planting of street trees in park strips, 
where feasible
• Seek opportunities for easements to provide foot paths 
to major destinations
Example Zoning Categories:
Portland Residential 7 ,000: This Portland, OR, zone 
is intended for single-family residential uses with up to one 
dwelling unit per 7 ,000 sq ft. Accessory Dwelling Units 
(ADUs) are allowed in this zone, as are duplexes (on corner 
lots only).
Portland Open Space: The Open Space Zone (Portland, 
OR) is intended to preserve and enhance public and private 
open space, recreational areas, and parks under a zone 
specific to these uses. The primary use of these lands is open 
space, but other uses are allowed conditionally, including: 
swimming pools, golf courses, cemeteries, ball fields, and 
similar accessory uses.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 74
Olympic Oval District Residential Character Area: Existing
Olympic Oval District Residential Character Area Snapshot:
Y ear Built: primarily 1980s-early 2000s
Building Heights: one to two stories
Median Lot Size: 0.16 acres
Median Building Area: 1,914 square feet
T otal Dwelling Units in Olympic Park District: 2,588
Net Density: 5.50 du per acre
Estimated Population: 9,576
Median T otal Market Value per Parcel (2018): $233,700
Design Features: deep front yard setbacks, landscaped front 
yards and park strips, neutral building material colors 
Figure 2-37: Example of housing style in Olympic Park District (Google Maps, 2019).
Location: The Olympic Oval District 
Residential Character Area is located in the 
central southern portion of Kearns, near the 
Utah Olympic Oval and Oquirrh Park. The 
residential character area is bounded to the 
west by the Special Utility Project Character 
Area, to the north by 5400 S, to the east by 
the Savage Services Corporation Railroad, 
and to the south by 6200 S.
75
Current Conditions: The Olympic Oval District Residential 
Character Area benefits from unparalleled access to parks and 
recreation (four parks in total). Nearly all residences are within 
a ten minute walk of a park facility. Residents of the Olympic 
Oval District also benefit from close proximity to grocery stores 
(with at least one on every corner of the residential character 
area). This area represents the newest housing stock in Kearns, 
built between the 1980s and early 2000s. Lots feature deep 
front yard setbacks and landscaping of both yards and park 
strips. Sidewalk condition in this character area is considered 
‘good’ by the sidewalk condition inventory conducted in the 
Master T ransportation Plan.
Assets: Residents of the Olympic Oval District benefit from 
unparalleled access to community amenities.
• Community Amenities: There are four parks in this 
area and three educational facilities. Residents are also 
immediately adjacent to the Recreation Hub Character 
Area and important commercial destinations like 
Harmon’ s Grocery. Most residents are within a ten minute 
walk of a park facility, and many are within walking range 
of a grocery or convenience store.
Challenges: The street network creates a challenge for the 
Olympic Oval District Residential Character Area.
• Street Network: Cul-de-sacs and limited access roads 
are characteristic of this area, making it difficult to 
navigate without an automobile despite close distances 
to amenities. Because there are limited routes through 
the Olympic Oval District, traffic is also likely to collect on 
a few key streets, worsening congestion. The function of 
the network can be improved by connecting stub streets 
and developing foot trails to major destinations.
Vision: the Olympic Oval District Residential Character 
Area will preserve low-intensity residential uses in a 
park-like setting, taking efforts to protect the ability of 
residents to easily access daily needs.
Olympic Oval District: Future Vision
Example Zoning Categories:
Portland Residential 7 ,000: This Portland, OR, zone 
is intended for single-family residential uses with up to one 
dwelling unit per 7 ,000 sq ft. Accessory Dwelling Units 
(ADUs) are allowed in this zone, as are duplexes (on corner 
lots only).
Portland Open Space: The Open Space Zone (Portland, 
OR) is intended to preserve and enhance public and private 
open space, recreational areas, and parks under a zone 
specific to these uses. The primary use of these lands is open 
space, but other uses are allowed conditionally, including: 
swimming pools, golf courses, cemeteries, ball fields, and 
similar accessory uses.
New Orleans Greenway Open Space District: New 
Orleans, LA, Greenway Open Space District accommodates 
pathways between community amenities in a linear park 
setting. The zone accommodates multimodal transportation, 
including paths for walking and biking. 
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: NA
T arget Building Heights: 1-2 stories
T arget Maximum Density: 5-6 du per acre
Primary Uses: single-family residential, parks and open 
space, government and institutional
Prohibited Uses: industrial, large-scale commercial
Parking and Unloading: on-site off-street, and on-street
Other Design Features: 
• Encourage landscaping of park strips and front yards
• Seek to connect park facilities through a network of 
designed pathways and trails
Figure 2-38: The Lafitte Greenway in New Orleans. Kearns may 
similarly choose to pursue multimodal pathways to connect separate 
community amenities. Landscaping can enhance the experience of 
people walking and biking.(Visit New Orleans, 2020).
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 76
Western Hills Residential Character Area: Existing
Western Hills Residential Character Area Snapshot:
Y ear Built: primarily 1950s-1970s
Building Heights: one-story, two-story, split level
Median Lot Size: 0.16 acres
Median Building Area: 1,888 square feet
T otal Dwelling Units in Western Hills: 1,487
Net Density: 6.12 du per acre
Estimated Population: 5,502
Median T otal Market Value per Parcel (2018): $205,100
Design Features: average front yard setbacks, diverse housing 
types and building materials 
Figure 2-39: Example of housing style in Western Hills Residential Character Area (Google Maps, 2016).
77
Location: The Western Hills Residential Character Area is 
located in the northwest quadrant of Kearns. It is bounded on 
the north by 4700 S, on the west by 5600 W, and on the south 
by 5400 S. The eastern boundary of the Character Area is 
defined by the Savage Services Railroad. 
Current Conditions: This Residential Character Area 
features primarily single-family residential uses. It includes 
Mountain Man Park, the only recreational facility in this 
area. Although the Western Hills Residential Character Area 
is immediately adjacent to the Warehouse District and the 
employment opportunities that offers, access is restricted by 
the railroad. Sidewalk conditions in this character area are 
moderate.
Assets: Several assets contribute to the strength of the 
Western Hills Residential Character Area.
• Viewshed: The Western Hills Residential Character 
Area experiences areas of higher elevation than 
elsewhere in Kearns. These topographic features serve 
to provide the Western Hills Area with some of the 
best views in the Municipality. These views should be 
preserved and recognized for the unique benefits they 
bring to area residents.
• Mountain Man Park: Over half of the Western Hills 
Residential Character Area is within a ten minute 
walk of Mountain Man Park (Figure 2-3). The park is 
approximately five acres and includes a playground, 
walking path, and restroom facilities. Mountain Man 
Park showcases some of the views characteristic of the 
Western Hills Area.
Challenges: There are also challenges that impact quality of 
life in the Western Hills Residential Character Area.
• Limited Connectivity: Connectivity of the Western 
Hills Residential Character Area to the rest of Kearns 
is limited by a curvilinear loop type street network (see 
the transportation element) and the Savage Services 
Railroad. The curvilinear roads prevent people walking 
and biking from being able to take the most direct route 
to destinations, and may encourage people not to use 
active forms of transportation. The railroad cuts off access 
from the neighborhoods to desirable destinations such 
as the Warehouse District (employment opportunities). 
The railroad can only formally be crossed at 5400 S and 
4700 S on the edges of the Character Area.
Vision: the Western Hills Residential Character Area 
will continue to offer high-quality residential living 
options. Efforts will be taken to preserve the viewshed, 
enhance the streetscape, and improve access to 
daily needs such as parks, grocery stores, and school 
facilities. 
Western Hills: Future Vision
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: NA
T arget Building Heights: 1-2 stories
T arget Maximum Density: 6-7 du per acre
Primary Uses: single-family residential, parks and open 
space, government and institutional
Prohibited Uses: industrial, large-scale commercial
Parking and Unloading: on-site off-street, and on-street
Other Design Features: 
• Encourage the planting of street trees in park strips, 
where feasible
• Seek opportunities for easements to provide foot paths 
to major destinations
• Look at possibility of a pedestrian crossing over the 
railroad into the Warehouse District from Mountain Man 
Park
• Preserve the viewshed
Example Zoning Categories:
Portland Residential 7 ,000: This Portland, OR, zone 
is intended for single-family residential uses with up to one 
dwelling unit per 7 ,000 sq ft. Accessory Dwelling Units 
(ADUs) are allowed in this zone, as are duplexes (on corner 
lots only).
Portland Open Space: The Open Space Zone (Portland, 
OR) is intended to preserve and enhance public and private 
open space, recreational areas, and parks under a zone 
specific to these uses. The primary use of these lands is open 
space, but other uses are allowed conditionally, including: 
swimming pools, golf courses, cemeteries, ball fields, and 
similar accessory uses.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 78
Camp Kearns Residential Character Area: Existing
Camp Kearns Residential Character Area Snapshot:
Y ear Built: primarily 1954-1956
Building Heights: one-story, ranch style
Median Lot Size: 0.16 acres
Median Building Area: 1,440 square feet
T otal Dwelling Units in Camp Kearns: 2,526
Net Density: 6.06 du per acre
Estimated Population: 9,346
Median T otal Market Value per Parcel (2018): $192,300
Design Features: shallow  front yard setbacks, low-pitch roofs, 
awnings and ground-level front porches and patios 
Figure 2-40: Example of housing style in Camp Kearns Residential Character Area (Google Maps, 2015).
Location: The Camp Kearns Residential 
Character Area is located in the northeast portion 
of Kearns. It is bounded on the north by 4715 S, on 
the east by 4015 W, on the south by 5415 S, and on 
the west by the Savage Services Railroad.
79
Current Conditions: The housing types in the Camp Kearns 
Residential Character Area are unique from anywhere else 
in the Municipality. Constructed between 1954 and 1956, 
after the dissolution of the Camp Kearns military base, this 
neighborhood represents original GI Bill Housing (housing 
constructed for veterans and their families after the end of 
WW2). Buildings are primarily one-story ranch-style. Low-
pitch roofs and awnings are characteristic of the homes. Lots 
feature shallow front yard setbacks, and ground-level front 
porches and patios. Because these homes are smaller in area, 
they offer single-family living opportunities at a cost lower than 
in other parts of Kearns. Sidewalk quality in this residential 
character area is poor, but residents enjoy access to groceries 
and park facilities, all from a gridded street network which 
leads to better traffic flow.
Assets: Residents of the Camp Kearns Residential Character 
Area benefit from several assets.
• Historical Context: This Residential Character 
Area has a rich history. The neighborhood sits on land 
previously occupied by the Camp Kearns Army Air 
Force Base, which was active during WWII. After the 
base closed in 1946, and materials were auctioned off 
in 1948, the land was re-purposed for GI Bill Housing. 
The majority of homes in the Camp Kearns Residential 
Character Area were constructed during this post-war 
period, between 1954 and 1956. Homes in this area 
have unique architectural characteristics which should 
be preserved, as should the gridded street network.
• Lower Cost of Homeownership: Because the homes 
in this residential area are generally smaller, they sell 
for less. This provides households with an opportunity 
to own at a lower cost than elsewhere in Kearns. The 
median market value of a residential parcel in the Camp 
Kearns Area is $192,200.
• Opportunity Zone: The Camp Kearns Residential 
Character Area is within Census T ract 49035113802, 
which has been designated an opportunity zone. 
Businesses that locate within and invest in opportunity 
zones are eligible for special tax benefits.
Challenges: Because this is the oldest residential area in 
Kearns, there are some challenges.
• Condition of Infrastructure: Sidewalk conditions in 
this area are particularly poor, which can make it difficult 
to navigate without an automobile. ADA-compliant 
infrastructure is also lacking.
Vision: the unique character of the Camp Kearns 
Residential Character Area will be preserved, while the 
area continues to provide affordable homeownership 
opportunities for residents of the Municipality.
Camp Kearns Residential: Future Vision
Example Zoning Categories:
Portland Residential 7 ,000: This Portland, OR, zone 
is intended for single-family residential uses with up to one 
dwelling unit per 7 ,000 sq ft. Accessory Dwelling Units 
(ADUs) are allowed in this zone, as are duplexes (on corner 
lots only).
Portland Open Space: The Open Space Zone (Portland, 
OR) is intended to preserve and enhance public and private 
open space, recreational areas, and parks under a zone 
specific to these uses. The primary use of these lands is open 
space, but other uses are allowed conditionally, including: 
swimming pools, golf courses, cemeteries, ball fields, and 
similar accessory uses.
Kalamazoo Neighborhood Conservation Overlay: 
This overlay zone encourages new development that fits 
the character and scale of original (historic) neighborhood 
buildings, preserving the culture and identity of areas.
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: NA
T arget Building Heights: 1 story
T arget Maximum Density: 6-7 du per acre
Primary Uses: single-family and two-family residential, 
parks and open space, government and institutional
Prohibited Uses: industrial, large-scale commercial
Parking and Unloading: on-site off-street, and on-street
Other Design Features: 
• Create design standards to preserve the unique character 
of housing stock in the Camp Kearns Residential 
Character Area:
• Ranch homes
• Low-pitch roofs
• Ground level porches
• Awnings above porches or entryways
• Shallow front yard setbacks
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 80
Edgemont Park Residential Character Area: E x i s t i n g
Edgemont Park Residential Character Area Snapshot:
Y ear Built: primarily 1950s-1970s
Building Heights: mixed one-story, two-story, split level
Median Lot Size: 0.16 acres
Median Building Area: 1,824 square feet
T otal Dwelling Units in Edgemont Park: 1,952
Net Density: 5.88 du per acre
Estimated Population: 7 ,222
Median T otal Market Value per Parcel (2018): $202,100
Design Features: average front yard setbacks, diverse housing 
types and building materials, use of deciduous trees in front yard 
landscaping 
Figure 2-41: Example of housing style in Edgemont Park Residential Character Area (Google Maps, 2019).
81
Location: The Edgemont Park Residential Character Area is 
located in the southeast portion of Kearns. It is bounded on 
the north by 5415 S, on the east by 4000 W, on the south by 
6200 S, and on the west by the Savage Services Railroad.
Current Conditions: This area is primarily used for single-
family residential purposes. The housing stock is similar to 
other areas of the Municipality. There are few non-residential 
facilities available in this character area. As a result, access 
to daily needs, such as groceries or recreational facilities, is 
low. Most residents would need to own a car in order to live 
in this neighborhood. Accessibility is further hindered by poor 
sidewalk conditions (especially in the northern part of the 
residential character area) and the barrier imposed by the 
railroad.
Assets: The following serve as assets to the Edgemont Park 
Residential Character Area.
• Field of Dreams EcoCommunity: Edgemont Park is 
home to a unique demonstration project which will give 
low-income households an opportunity to live in modern 
passive homes. Passive homes have a lower carbon 
footprint and reduce utility costs for the occupant. This 
project is a collaborative effort between Habitat for 
Humanity and architect Jörg Rügemer. When completed, 
the project will provide twenty affordable units with 
shared community recreational amenities. Learn more 
on the EcoCommunity web page.
Challenges: The greatest challenge for residents of the 
Edgemont Park Residential Character Area is barriers to 
access.
• Barriers to Access: Whereas other residential 
neighborhoods in Kearns enjoy close proximity to parks 
and grocery stores, such services are farther away from 
the Edgemont Park Area. No residents are within five 
or ten-minute walking distance to a park, and few are 
within walking distance to a grocery or convenience 
store. Access limitations are caused primarily by the 
Savage Services Railroad, which separates residents 
in this neighborhood from the nearby Recreation Hub 
Character Area (including Kearns High School) and 
the Walkable Commercial Center Character Area (with 
Harmon’ s Grocery). Access is further hindered by poor 
sidewalk conditions, particularly in the northern part of 
Edgemont Park (see the transportation element).
Vision: Edgemont Park will continue to provide high-
quality housing options for residents, while expanding 
access to daily needs such as grocery stores, parks, 
educational facilities, and employment opportunities.
Edgemont Park: Future Vision
Future Zoning Considerations:
T arget Floor Area Ratio: NA
T arget Building Heights: 1-2 stories
T arget Maximum Density: 6-7 du per acre
Primary Uses: single-family residential, parks and open 
space, government and institutional
Prohibited Uses: industrial, large-scale commercial
Parking and Unloading: on-site off-street, and on-street
Other Design Features: 
• Encourage beautification of the streetscape through 
infrastructure improvements and park strip landscaping
• Seek to connect residents to major community 
destinations through non-motorized pathways
• Consider opportunities to allow limited commercial and/
or recreational opportunities in the Character Area to 
meet the needs of residents.
Example Zoning Categories:
Portland Residential 7 ,000: This Portland, OR, zone 
is intended for single-family residential uses with up to one 
dwelling unit per 7 ,000 sq ft. Accessory Dwelling Units 
(ADUs) are allowed in this zone, as are duplexes (on corner 
lots only).
Portland Open Space: The Open Space Zone (Portland, 
OR) is intended to preserve and enhance public and private 
open space, recreational areas, and parks under a zone 
specific to these uses. The primary use of these lands is open 
space, but other uses are allowed conditionally, including: 
swimming pools, golf courses, cemeteries, ball fields, and 
similar accessory uses.
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 82
The Supplementary Character Areas
Special Utility Project Character Area:
Location: Located on the western side of Kearns, this character 
area runs from 5400 S to 6200 S. It is located between the 
Lodestone Residential Character Area and the Olympic Oval 
District Residential Character Area.
Current Conditions: The area consists of approximately 33.3 
acres, used for the siting of transmission lines serving local and 
regional markets. There is approximately 185 ft of land width 
available between the transmission lines and the western edge 
of the Character Area.
Future Considerations: Although the primary use of 
the site will remain  to host utilities such as the transmission 
lines, the potential exists for other low-intensity, compatible 
uses to co-occupy the space. Further study is needed to 
determine if a walking path or other recreational amenity 
is feasible in the character area. Such amenities would 
serve the nearby residential neighborhoods and could 
possibly connect residents to community destinations. 
Figure 2-42: Street view of the Special Utility Project Character Area, 
offering open space and views along a transmission line route. Available 
land could be utilized for multiple purposes so long as the primary use is 
preserved. (Google Maps Street View, 2020)
The Supplementary Character Areas represent the four areas of Kearns where the primary goal is either preservation or further study. 
These character areas currently require the least planning attention.
Major Transit Investment Corridor Study Area:
Location: This area includes the entire right-of-way of 
5400/5415 S and 6200 S (Kearns’ Major T ransit Investment 
Corridors). Studies may also include land immediately adjacent 
to the corridors.
Current Conditions: 5400/5415 S and 6200 S are classified 
as Major T ransit Investment Corridors by state law. Daily traffic 
counts on these arterials are high, and transit service is frequent 
(every 15 minutes). In the next ten years, traffic is expected to 
increase on both arterials. 6200 S is planned for expansion to 
seven lanes by 2040. More information on the Major T ransit 
Investment Corridors is available in the T ransportation Element 
of this Plan.
Future Considerations: 5400/5415 S and 6200 S both 
run through areas that are primarily used for residential 
purposes. As traffic increases and right-of-way is expanded, 
residential uses may no longer be desirable along these Major 
T ransit Investment Corridors. Further study of the corridors 
is needed to determine a future vision for these areas.  
Figure 2-43: Street view of 5400 S as it passes by residences on the west 
side of Kearns. In this area, the corridor is five lanes wide. Pedestrians are 
accommodated by a signaled walkway. (Google Maps Street View, 2020)
83
Existing Commercial Character Area:
Location: Existing Commercial Character Areas are scattered 
throughout the Municipality, primarily near medium- to high-
density housing and at major intersections.
Current Conditions: These areas primarily serve the limited 
commercial needs of their adjacent neighborhoods. They tend 
to be automobile-oriented and feature small, on-site, surface 
parking lots.
Future Considerations: The existing commercial 
uses in these areas should be preserved, recognizing 
that the Areas provide important services to  
Kearns’ residents. However, the intensity of commercial activities 
in these clusters should not increase. Future commercial growth 
should be focused in the Core Character Areas. The Existing 
Commercial Character Areas may be enhanced through limited 
infill development, streetscaping and parking lot landscaping, 
and the addition of multimodal facilities so that residents can 
access destinations without using an automobile.
Figure 2-44: Street view of an Existing Commercial Character Area at 
the intersection of 5415 S and Northwest Avenue. This site hosts a small 
grocery store and a couple of pizza places. It serves basic commercial needs 
of nearby residents and students attending Kearns High School (located 
southeast of the cluster). (Google Maps Street View, 2019)
Med- to High-Density Residential Character Area:
Location: This Character Area applies to several locations 
across the Municipality. It covers existing med- to high-density 
residential uses not contained within a Core Character Area.
Current Conditions: The majority of housing in Kearns is 
single-family, owner-occupied. Thus, it is essential that existing 
medium to high-density residential uses be preserved, in order 
to promote housing choice and affordability. These areas are 
largely integrated into their surrounding neighborhoods but 
could benefit from increased access to transit and amenities.
Future Considerations: Zoning should be audited to ensure 
that it preserves existing Med- to High-Density Residential 
Character Areas. Allowable density should not be less than 
what already exists on-site. Density may be increased if staff 
finds that greater density is compatible with surrounding 
uses and desirable for the area. Design standards may 
be implemented to ensure the development of attractive, 
compatible buildings.
Figure 2-45: Street view of the PineRidge Apartments in Kearns. This 
complex is included in the Med- to High-Density Residential Character 
Area, which preserves housing choices in Kearns (Google Maps Street 
View, 2020)
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 84
Stronger Together Community Work Program
Y ou’ll notice that the work program includes multiple 
responsible parties. That is because planning is a 
collaborative effort. Complex problems cannot be 
solved in isolation. Consider this example: a proposal to 
implement a crosswalk across a state highway to link a 
neighborhood to a high school. As a state highway, the 
state Department of T ransportation would be involved. 
School administrators would voice their students’ needs. 
The neighborhood HOA would represent resident 
interests. The community’ s planner and transportation 
engineer would be involved as well. These entities and 
more are needed to generate a solution and implement 
it. With any one of these partners missing, the proposed 
solution would likely leave out a factor crucial to the 
long-term success of the project. When relevant parties 
collaborate, mutually beneficial solutions emerge and 
can come to fruition.
The next pages detail the land use work program for Kearns. 
T ables are laid out in a series of goals, objectives, and actions 
to help the community achieve its future land use vision. Every 
action is accompanied by technical information about who 
should lead the initiative, the proposed timeline for completion, 
the estimated cost, and the metric for success. Resources 
provided link to useful case studies, funding sources, or other 
guidelines for helping Kearns reach its goals.
The land use work program is the result of robust data 
gathering, coordination with regional transportation plans, 
and extensive community engagement through surveys, 
workshops, and General Plan Steering Committee Meetings. 
The goals included in the work program were developed 
from the SWOT and APAE analyses, with oversight from the 
General Plan Steering Committee (GPSC). Goals are ordered
by relative importance, based on community feedback (i.e. the
number of times each goal came up in the analyses, surveys, or
during GPSC discussions).
Kearns Land Use Goals:
1. Build livable neighborhoods for people of all ages, 
abilities, and sociodemographic backgrounds.
2. Preserve and enhance recreational amenities and access 
to parks and open space.
3. Enhance the safety, comfort, and visual attractiveness of 
the built environment. 
4. Promote the culture and identity of Kearns through the 
built environment.
5. Create a Kearns T own Center to serve as a social 
gathering place and commercial hub.
6. Preserve and enhance existing commercial activities.
7. Develop an attractive and economically-viable 
Warehouse District.
8. Promote land use as a tool to enhance physical and 
mental health and wellbeing.
At the Community Workshop 
held in December of 2019, 
residents identified the ‘image/
reputation of Kearns’ as a significant 
weakness that needed to be addressed 
in the Municipality’s General Plan. 
Workshop participants related 
this to negative images to junk 
accumulation, litter, lack of curb 
appeal, and broken infrastructure in 
residential neighborhoods. Longevity 
of residents and strength of residential 
neighborhoods is a large source 
of pride in Kearns. Thus, this plan 
places great emphasis on protecting 
residential character and strengthening 
the aesthetic appeal and quality of life 
of existing neighborhoods.
85
Figure 2-46: Kearns High School, home of the Cougars. School 
colors are green and gold. (Photo credit: Wikipedia, 2020).
Figure 2-47: Mining-themed playground at Lodestone Park in 
Kearns  / West Jordan. (Photo credit: Salt Lake County, 2020).
Figure 2-48: The community gathers together at the outdoor water 
park at Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness Center (Photo credit: KOPFC, 
2020).
Figure 2-49: The design for the Kearns branch of the Salt Lake 
County Library, currently under construction (Photo credit: Deseret 
News, 2018).
Figure 2-50: Locally-owned Azteca de Oro Mexican Restaurant and 
Market.  (Photo credit: Jorge Hernández, 2019).
Figure 2-51: Lusid T echnologies, a growing automotive paint 
company headquartered in Kearns. (Photo credit: Google Maps, 
2019).
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 86
 87
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 88
 89
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 90
 91
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 92
 93
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Kearns General Plan 94
 95
Chapter 2 - Land Use
Savage Services to
Savage
Services;
Savage Services 
Corporation 
Engineering 
and 
Construction
Kearns General Plan 96 97
X ELEMENT
Kearns General Plan 96 97
TRANSPORTATION
Football teams march in Kearns’ parade. Photo Credit: Kearns Community Council, 2018.  
Kearns General Plan 98
What are the State Code requirements? What’s in the Kearns Transportation Element?
The transportation element is one of just three elements 
required for Kearns by State Code (the other two being 
the land use element and moderate-income housing 
plan). State Code §10-9a-403 requires that the 
transportation element of the general plan accomplishes 
the following: 
1. Provides the general location and extent of existing 
and proposed freeways, arterial and collector 
streets, public transit, active transportation facilities, 
and other modes of transportation that the planning 
commission considers appropriate; 
2. For a municipality that has access to a major transit 
investment corridor, addresses the municipality’ s 
plan for residential and commercial development 
around major transit investment corridors to 
maintain and improve the connections between 
housing, employment, education, recreation, and 
commerce; and 
3. Correlates with the population projections, the 
employment projections, and the proposed land use 
element of the general plan. 
Kearns has access to several major transit investment 
corridors, which warrant special consideration in this 
plan. 5400 S and 6200 S, both with core UTA service, 
pass directly through the Municipality. Bangerter 
Highway and Mountain View Corridor are adjacent to 
Kearns, and also have direct impacts on the community.
While the land use element lays out patterns of uses across 
Kearns, the transportation element examines how people 
access these uses. The transportation element establishes a 
vision not only for arriving from Point A to Point B, but also for 
ensuring that transportation systems are sufficient to connect 
all residents with their daily needs, regardless of whether that 
resident has access to a private automobile. 
This chapter includes an overview of the feedback generated 
from the community regarding transportation, as well 
as an analysis of existing conditions of roadways, public 
transportation, walking and biking infrastructure, ADA 
compliance in the public right-of-way, and Kearns’ usage 
and commuting patterns. The local vision is accompanied 
by a summary of the visions and plans produced by other 
entities working on behalf of Kearns and the region. The final 
part of this chapter provides goals, objectives and actions for 
advancing the vision of Kearns as it relates to transportation.
Who Plays What Role?
T ransportation planning is a collaborative effort. Several 
groups contribute to the visioning, provision, maintenance, 
and enforcement of transportation systems and infrastructure 
in Kearns.
Kearns’ Residents:
Residents use Kearns’ transportation system and infrastructure 
on a daily basis. No other group is better prepared to identify 
strengths and challenges of existing conditions. Residents also 
set a community vision for Kearns’ transportation in the future. 
This vision is summarized later on in this chapter.
Great Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD):
The MSD provides a number of municipal services to Kearns, 
including planning and development services. It helped in the 
facilitation and drafting of this General Plan and will continue 
to support Kearns in the implementation of this Plan after 
adoption.
Salt Lake County (SLCo):
Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering Department 
(Public Works Engineering) provides engineering services 
to the MSD, including Kearns. Services include building and 
maintaining local roadways and sidewalks, administering 
encroachment, excavation and special event permits, and 
enforcing stormwater (MS4) management compliance.
In May 2019, 124 Kearns residents 
completed a survey as a part of the 
Master T ransportation Planning process (see 
the Master T ransportation Plan in the Appendix). 
The three most significant transportation challenges 
identified by survey respondents were: 
1. Safety (speeding, running lights, accidents)
2. Poor Pavement Conditions, and
3. T raffic Congestion on Roads.
Each of these issues are addressed in the content of 
this Chapter, as well as in the T ransportation Work 
Program.
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
99
Neighboring Municipalities:
Kearns is bordered by West Valley City, West Jordan, and 
T aylorsville, all of which have their own transportation elements 
of the general plan. Collaboration with these municipalities is 
key if Kearns hopes to achieve its transportation goals. SLCo 
is also preparing a plan for the area southwest of Kearns, 
including Oquirrh. Growth projected in this area will heavily 
influence Kearn’ s transportation capacity and needs.
Utah Department of T ransportation (UDOT):
UDOT “aim[s] to Keep Utah Moving. That includes everything 
from improving our roads and traffic lights to providing 
alternate means of getting from A to B, like bike lanes and 
public transit. We want to make sure that whatever is being 
moved, freight and cargo or the people in a vehicle, arrives safe 
and promptly. It isn’t easy, but Keeping Utah Moving is what 
keeps UDOT going” (UDOT , 2020). 
UDOT has established several core values (shown in Figure 
3-1) that guide its transportation planning for the state. 
Kearns works with UDOT regarding any non-local roads 
within and adjacent to Kearn’ s boundaries, such as 5415 S., 
Mountain View Corridor, and Bangerter Highway. UDOT’ s 
Active T ransportation Division provides support and funding 
to municipalities implementing initiatives regarding walking 
and biking. State funding for transportation projects is only 
available to localities that meet Senate Bill 34 requirements 
about planning for Moderate-Income Housing. 
Utah T ransit Authority (UTA):
UTA “provides integrated mobility solutions to service life’ s 
connections, improve public health and enhance quality 
of life”; they “provide an integrated system of innovative, 
accessible and efficient public transportation services that 
increase access to opportunities and contribute to a healthy 
environment for the people of the Wasatch region” (UTA, 
2020).
UTA owns and operates the six bus routes that run through 
Kearns, along with all of the associated infrastructure. UTA 
also operates TRAX, paratransit, and other micromobility 
services. Kearns should be attentive to future UTA plans and 
provide feedback on services to planners and decision-makers 
whenever opportunities are given.
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC): 
The WFRC is the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) 
that covers Box Elder, Davis, Morgan, Salt Lake, T ooele, and 
Weber counties. The responsibilities of the WFRC include 
regional transportation planning. Their current plan, Wasatch 
Choice 2050, along with the WFRC Regional T ransportation 
Plan 2019-2050, are discussed in more detail further on in 
this chapter. Kearns works with the WFRC on several regional 
initiatives and is eligible for funding from the WFRC for various 
transportation projects.
Figure 3-1: UDOT Guiding Vision & Principles
Source: UDOT , 2020.
Kearns General Plan 100
What do we mean by Connectivity?
The term ‘connectivity’ is used frequently throughout this 
chapter of the General Plan. But what does it mean? In a 
1997 street design study, it was described this way:
“Connectivity is a system of streets with 
multiple routes and connections serving the 
same origins and destinations. . . . An area 
with high connectivity has multiple points 
of access around its perimeter as well as a 
dense system of parallel routes and cross-
connections within the area.” 
— James M. Daisa
The Kearns General Plan takes it one step further. We 
consider a connected place to be one where people, 
regardless of age, income, or ability, can grocery 
shop, receive education, engage in recreation and 
entertainment, obtain healthcare, and participate fully 
in civic life. None of these things are possible without 
adequate infrastructure to deliver an individual from 
origin to destination. But a grid of connected streets 
does not, in and of itself, connect residents to needed 
resources and amenities. Thus, transportation planning 
is a means to an end. 
The transportation element explores how to connect 
people with the things that they need, whether or not a 
person has access to a private automobile or the ability 
to drive. 
Existing Conditions
Kearns experiences several transportation-related challenges. 
One of the greatest of these is the railroad track which runs all the 
way through the Municipality, essentially splitting it in half (east 
and west side). Crossings over this track are limited, and only 
three formal vehicular crossings exist within Kearns’ boundaries 
(although residents have made several informal walking paths 
across the tracks). Figures 3-2 and 3-3 show informal crossings 
(yellow arrows) and formal crossings (green arrows) used by 
students to access Kearns High School. Informal crossings, in 
addition to being illegal, are extremely dangerous, and finding 
solutions for these areas is a top priority for Kearns.
Another challenge is posed by Kearns’ street pattern. While 
the east side of the Municipality is generally laid out as a well-
connected grid, the west half has been developed primarily using 
cul-de-sacs (Figure 3-5). These roads dead-end at residential 
addresses and make it almost impossible to walk or bike to major 
destinations. Residents located near parks or shopping centers 
often have no through path to the amenity, and must leave their 
neighborhood and access an arterial or collector road in order to 
gain access. As such, households continue to rely on cars as their 
primary means of travel, worsening traffic congestion, noise, and 
air quality.
However, there are several assets in Kearns which can be 
leveraged to provide a stronger transportation network and a 
better quality of life. Six UTA bus routes currently run through 
Kearns, connecting residents to a regional transportation 
system. T wo streets within Kearns have been designated as 
Major T ransit Investment Corridors, which means that regional 
agencies will continue to plan for and invest in these roadways 
far into the future. The Municipality benefits from wide sidewalk 
coverage, and recent plans and projects have prioritized active 
transportation and community gathering.
Figures provided by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
Figures 3-2 and 3-3: Formal and Informal Crossings to Kearns High School.
101
A recently approved subdivision features 
several homes which back onto Oquirrh 
Park and the Olympic Oval area. Y et, 
there are no pathways connecting 
residents in the subdivision to this park. 
Instead, residents must exit the cul-de-
sac and enter 4800 W (Cougar Lane) 
to gain access to the park and recreation 
amenities. A bike lane does exist along 
Cougar Lane, but it is unbuffered from 
vehicular traffic. By 2030, 12,500 cars will 
pass on this road daily, making the current 
biking facility unsafe. Making provisions 
for walking and biking infrastructure is 
crucial to ensuring resident access to 
amenities into the future.
Figure 3-4: Olympic Park Subdivision. 
(Photo credit: Moore Homes 2020.)
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Figure 3-5: Kearns Street Patterns. 
(Prepared by MSD Long Range Planning, 2020.)
Kearns General Plan 102
What does transportation have to do with 
housing affordability?
In the pursuit of lower housing costs, many people have 
moved farther away from urban centers and their places 
of employment (Reed, 2018). However, this too has costs. 
The average American household will spend $9,004 on 
transportation costs this year (Hamm, 2020). Kearns 
households will spend $7 ,478.93, roughly 11.9% of their 
total expenditures (Esri Business Analyst 2020). 
Access to low-cost, high-quality transportation can 
significantly improve cost of living, especially for low-
income households. If an individual can walk, bike, or 
take public transit to work, he or she may be able to get by 
without a personal automobile. This eliminates monthly 
car payments, insurance payments, maintenance and 
fuel costs. This money can be re-directed to housing 
costs or other essentials such as food or healthcare. If 
Kearns truly desires to keep its housing affordable, one 
of the best things it can do is invest in its transportation 
infrastructure.
“You can afford to spend $200,000 more 
on a house if you can get by with only 
one car.” ~ Money After Graduation, 2015.
Engaging the Community
Kearns residents provided input regarding transportation at a 
community workshop hosted in December of 2019, an MSD 
Workshop hosted in January 2020, and via the Land Use and 
T ransportation Survey administered by the MSD in spring of 
2020. The long-range planning team also worked extensively 
with the Kearns General Plan Steering Committee to identify 
strengths and weaknesses in existing conditions and develop 
a set of goals and objectives for Kearns’ future transportation 
network. A few themes emerged during these engagement 
opportunities: 
• Kearns residents value a highly-connected 
transportation system, especially where it provides 
opportunities for people to take transit, walk, or 
bike to and from schools, parks, and civic amenities.
• Kearns desires safe and quiet residential 
neighborhoods, with minimal through-traffic and 
enforced speed limits.
• Kearns residents feel threatened by traffic noise 
and congestion and worsening air quality.
• Kearns recognizes the importance of integrating, 
land use, housing, and transportation decisions in 
order to build a strong community.
Figure 3-6: The Relationship Between Housing and Transportation Costs.
Figure adapted from KSWUrban. See original figure on T witter, using #citymakingmath.
Land Use and T ransportation Survey 2020
The Land Use and T ransportation Survey (2020) utilized  
an online program, Survey 1-2-3, to ask MSD-area residents 
about their transportation and land use concerns and values. 
Included among the 14 questions was a spatial mapping 
component that allowed residents to share site-specific 
concerns and opportunities. The survey was sent by email 
to local leaders across the MSD member communities (e.g. 
Councilors, Planning Commissioners, General Plan Steering 
Committees) and posted on social media accounts and 
associated websites in April and May 2020. Between 4/9/20 
and 5/14/20, 464 responses to the survey were received across 
all MSD member communities, and 54 residents from Kearns 
responded. The transportation-related results of the survey are 
shown in Figure 3-7 . 
Unsafe travel and traffic congestion were marked as ‘important’ 
or ‘very important’ considerations by nearly all respondents 
from Kearns. Residences were also highly concerned about 
inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure. Inability 
to effectively trip chain, inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian 
information, and inadequate public transportation were seen 
103
Results from the Land Use and T ransportation Survey 2020, Kearns residents only.
Figure 3-7: Count of Respondents Identifying Transportation-Related Concerns as Important or Very 
Important to the Future Development of Kearns.
as  less important to the overall development of Kearns. But 
a majority of respondents (> 60%) still felt that these were 
important considerations. Kearns was the only community 
responding to the Land Use and T ransportation Survey that 
ranked unsafe travel as its top concern.
Important revelations from the land use portion of the survey 
also deserve mention here. 54 respondents, or 100% of the 
surveyed population of Kearns, responded that clean air is 
‘important’ or ‘very important’ to the future development 
of the area. T ransportation is the largest source of human-
induced greenhouse gas emissions in our atmosphere (EPA 
2018). Thus, how we plan our transportation infrastructure 
will have significant impacts on air quality.
Affordability of housing was also identified as ‘important’ or 
‘very important’ by 94% of respondents. T ransportation and 
housing are strongly linked, and the quality of transportation 
infrastructure can greatly impact the ability of an individual 
to afford his or her housing costs. See Figure 3-6 for more 
information.
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Kearns General Plan 104
SWOT Analysis and APAE
The SWOT and APAE analyses conducted at the Community 
Workshop held in December 2019 made several references to 
transportation infrastructure (Figures 3-9 and 3-10). 
SWOT: Some of the key strengths of Kearns existing 
transportation network were identified as the robust service 
from UTA ’ s six bus routes and Kearns’ central location within 
the Salt Lake Valley. Kearns residents enjoy close proximity to 
several local and regional destinations, which can be leveraged 
through expanded transportation options. Overcrowded on-
street parking and increasing traffic congestion, especially that 
which comes from USANA amphitheatre, were identified as 
weaknesses in the current transportation system. Residents also 
noted several locations which could benefit from the addition 
of crosswalks or changes to intersection design and traffic 
light timing. The opportunities identified by participants in the 
SWOT analysis pertained primarily to active transportation 
and public transit. In general , residents wanted to see expanded 
service and better bus stop infrastructure from UTA. They saw 
opportunities to improve walkability in their neighborhoods 
through the addition of lighting and additional crosswalks, 
especially near the library and proposed T own Center.
APAE: This exercise re-iterated the idea that Kearns residents 
value their existing active transportation infrastructure. 
Participants expressed their desire to preserve existing 
bike lanes and crosswalks as well as their ‘small-town feel’. 
Residents also wanted to achieve better access to public 
transit, increased non-motorized connectivity (through trails 
and paths), and reductions in traffic congestion and speeding. 
The community values its residential neighborhoods, and the 
APAE shows it as comments were raised related to reducing 
the burden on residential on-street parking, slowing down 
through-traffic, and eliminating reckless driving. High-level 
goals included avoiding poor air quality and eliminating 
unsustainable government spending. Both of these have 
implications for transportation. Air quality can be improved 
through the reduction of vehicle miles traveled, or in other 
words, investing in active transportation and public transit 
infrastructure. This transportation element will set the priorities 
for transportation planning and spending moving forward to 
ensure that government actions align with the vision of the 
Kearns community.
Steering Committee Input:
Throughout the general planning
process, members of the Kearns General 
Plan Steering Committee (GPSC) weighed 
in on several planning topics and helped 
to set a vision forward for their community.
During the summer of 2020, we asked 
members to submit pictures of things they 
liked and disliked in their neighborhoods 
and around Kearns. Members responded 
with several images and detailed notes 
that helped to inform this plan. 
Members expressed their love for Kearns’ 
tight-knit community and the abundance 
of recreational amenities. Items that were 
disliked included the accumulation of 
litter and outdoor storage in residential 
neighborhoods as well as overburdened 
on-street parking (see Figure 3-8). On-
street parking was also discussed fervently 
during the SWOT and APAE exercises. 
Residents say the overcrowding of parked 
cars on residential streets makes it difficult 
for snow plows to maintain roads in 
winter and for residents to navigate their 
neighborhoods. Kearns residents also 
found the abundance of cars unsightly.
Figure 3-8: Kearns On-Street Parking
Photo submitted by Laura Koester, GPSC Member, 2020.
105
Chapter 3 - T ransportationFigure 3-9: SWOT Analysis Results Pertaining to Transportation.Figure 3-10: APAE Analysis Results Pertaining to Transportation.
Kearns General Plan 106
What is the Functional Street Classification 
System?
Street Classifications and Level of Service 
The functional classification of streets describes the grouping 
of streets or highways into ‘classes’ based on the character of 
service they are intended to provide: namely volume, vehicular 
speeds and access points (FHWA 2000). This classification 
is important for understanding how roads in a network relate 
to one another. See T able 3-A for more information on how 
Kearns’ streets are classified.
UDOT has defined five functional classes of streets in Kearns. 
These are labeled in the Figure 3-12, and each class type 
is described in more detail in T able 3-A. There are three 
principal arterials in Kearns: 4700 S, 5400 S, and 5600 W. 
Only one minor arterial exists (6200 S), and the rest of the 
classified streets are considered collector roads. Any street in 
Kearns not classified as an arterial or collector will be referred 
to as a ‘residential’ or ‘neighborhood’ street throughout this 
chapter of the general plan. Note that there are no freeways 
or expressways running through the Municipality; however, 
Bangerter Highway and Mountain View Corridor are within 
close proximity to Kearns’ boundaries. 
Both 6200 S and 4700 S receive an “F” grade for level of 
service as they pass through the eastern part of Kearns. This 
means that there are significant delays on these roads during 
peak rush hours. 4800 W (Cougar Lane) and 4015 W, as well 
as part of 6200 S, are approaching unstable operations (rated 
“D”). These streets are extremely important to the success of 
Kearns, as they provide access to the Olympic Oval and the 
proposed Kearns T own Center. A road widening project is 
planned for 6200 S, which may improve the level of service of 
the road (at least temporarily).
What is Level of Service?
Level of service describes the relationship between the 
capacity of a road and the amount of vehicular traffic that the 
road actually receives. Level of service is displayed as a letter 
grade ranging from A to F. “ A-C” represent stable conditions. 
A “D” rating means that a roadway is approaching unstable 
operations, and “E-F”rated roads are unstable, seeing 
significant delays on average during peak rush hours. More 
on functional street classification and level of service can be 
read in the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan.
Table 3-A: Explanation of Street Classifications in Kearns.
Adapted from the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
107
 Figure 3-11: Existing Level of Service on Kearns Roadways.
 Figure 3-12: Functional Classification of Kearns Roadways.
Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Kearns General Plan 108
Traffic Load and Speeds
Annual average daily traffic load (AADT) is the total 
volume of traffic on a given road over the course of a year, 
divided by 365 days. This gives us an estimate of how many 
vehicles we can expect on our roads daily. The most recent 
AADT data is for the year 2016 and comes from the Utah 
Department of T ransportation (UDOT).
Current T raffic Load Conditions: T raffic volumes are 
heaviest on the periphery of Kearns, particularly along 6200 
S, 4700 S, and 5600 W. The primary east-west connection 
through the Municipality, 5400 South, which will also run 
past the proposed T own Center, receives 19,000 AADT 
(UDOT 2016). This is compared to 39,000 AADT received 
on 6200 S east of Cougar Lane (the highest traffic count in 
Kearns). Interior collector roads receive far less traffic, with 
none exceeding 3,000 AADT , as shown by the blue lines on 
the map in Figure 3-14.
Figure 3-13: Looking West on 6200 South. This arterial experiences 
the greatest traffic volume in Kearns. By 2030, Wasatch Front 
Regional Council predicts that over 40,000 cars will traverse this 
stretch of road daily. (Photo credit: Google Maps Street View 2019)
 Figure 3-14: Traffic Volumes (AADT) for Kearns, 2016.
Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
109
Current Speed Limits: Speed limits in Kearns largely reflect 
the Functional Street Classifications featured on pg.12. Most 
Arterial and Collector Roads feature a speed limit of 35 miles 
per hour (mph), while neighborhood and residential streets 
have a speed limit of 25 mph (Figure 3-15). Only the northwest 
quadrant of Kearns, along with the very western portion of 
5400 S (where it enters the Municipality), exceed speed limits 
of 35 mph. It is important to note that even though the speed 
limits in Kearns are low, drivers may not necessarily adhere 
to posted limits. During public outreach for this General 
Plan, residents reported that speeds limits are frequently 
exceeded, especially causing safety concerns on residential 
and neighborhood streets. Increased enforcement of current 
limits may help to improve safety conditions throughout the 
Municipality.
The USANA Amphitheatre
The USANA (after USANA Health Sciences) is an 
outdoor amphitheater with a capacity of 20,000 
people. It draws performances from star musicians in 
every genre, having hosted such names as: Santana, 
Green Day, Willie Nelson, and Blink-182. 
Although not technically located in Kearns, the USANA 
has a significant impact on the community. Show 
attendees from the southwest part of the valley can 
take Mountain View Corridor almost all the way to the 
amphitheater, exiting and driving just a couple blocks 
through Kearns, but most people access the site from 
cities to the east or north. These visitors are directed 
through the heart of Kearns along 5400 S. Thus on event 
nights in the summer, Kearns residents are faced with 
the traffic of 20,000 individuals. 5400 S is lined almost 
exclusively with residential uses. Unsurprisingly, noise 
and traffic congestion from the USANA has become a 
major source of complaints from Kearns’ residents.
 Figure 3-15: Existing Speed Limits.
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Kearns General Plan 110
Where do Projected Traffic Volumes Come 
From?
Future Roadway Conditions
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) provides 
projected traffic volumes (AADT) through the year 2050. 
The 2030 projected volumes shown in Figure 3-16 are 
based on existing traffic counts from UDOT , traffic models, 
and assumptions based on the completion of WFRC’ s 
Regional T ransportation Plan (RTP). This plan proposes 
the development of several land use centers in and around 
Kearns (see Figure 3-34). Projections are adjusted based on 
observational studies of real traffic counts. More on these 
projections is available on the WFRC website.
It should be noted that the 2030 projected traffic volumes 
from WFRC exceed the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan’ s 
projected volumes in the ‘no-build’ scenario. Thus, WFRC’ s 
projections account for local and regional growth.
Projected T raffic V olumes: Wasatch Front Regional 
Council provides forecasted traffic volumes for the year 2030. 
In the next ten years, traffic counts are expected to increase 
on most streets within Kearns. However, the forecasted AADT 
on Kearns’ roads still remains low relative to other areas in 
Salt Lake County. 6200 S will continue to be the busiest 
arterial through Kearns (projected AADT of 42,500). But 
AADT along 5400 S will also increase with the anticipated 
development of the Kearns T own Center. Although it is not 
located within Kearns, Mountain View Corridor connects the 
Municipality to regional destinations. By 2030, AADT on 
Mountain View west of Kearns is expected to increase from less 
than 10,000 vehicles per day to over 40,000. T raffic volume 
on residential roads will also increase into the next decade 
as the population of the area grows. This increase in traffic 
volume (and presumably congestion) is likely to underscore the 
need for active transportation infrastructure, all while creating 
challenges for infrastructure already in existence.
Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using projections of AADT from Wasatch Front Regional Council for the year 2030.
 Figure 3-16: Projected Traffic Volumes (AADT) for the Year 2030.
0
111
 Figure 3-17: Future Functional Classifications
Future Functional Classifications: Although UDOT 
communicates a municipality’ s Functional Classification of 
Roadways to the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), the 
municipality still has the ability to decide for themselves what 
the Functional Classification of each street should be. Figure 
3-17 shows the proposed Functional Classification for Kearns 
Roadways, as presented in the Kearns Master T ransportation 
Plan (2019). In the updated classification, 6200 S is considered 
a principal arterial along with 4700 S, 5400 S, and 5600 W. 
The northern section of 4800 W (Cougar Lane) is upgraded 
from Major Collector to Minor Arterial status. Streets cutting 
through residential neighborhoods continue to be classified as 
Collectors or Minor Collectors (Figure 3-17). According to the 
Master T ransportation Plan, the future functional classification 
is based on prior planning efforts, resident feedback, and 
projected/funded roadway projects. This map should guide 
future decision-making, as the community understands what 
to expect in terms of the size and function of its street network.
Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
Figure 3-18: Looking west on 6200 S. The roadway is currently classified 
as a Minor Arterial, despite having five lanes and some of the highest 
traffic counts in Kearns. The proposed ‘Future Functional Classification’ 
for 6200 S is a Principal Arterial, more fitting with residents understanding 
of the roadway and a pending roadway expansion that would add two 
additional lanes. (Photo credit: Google Maps, 2020)
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
0 0.15 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2
Kearns General Plan 112
Did You Know?
92.7% of adults in Kearns wear seatbelts!  
(Data from 2016-2018 data SLCo Health Dept) 
According to the Center for Disease Control, wearing a 
seat belt while in the front seat of a car can reduce risk 
of death by 45% and risk of serious injury by 50% in the 
event of a crash (CDC 2011). Wearing seatbelts saves 
lives . Keep it up Kearns!
In the Land Use and
Transportation Survey, residents
had the ability to identify areas of 
concern on a map. Several of their 
submissions related to transportation 
infrastructure. Respondents identified 
the intersection of Cougar Lane and 
5415 S and the intersection of 6200 S 
and Cougar Lane as two particularly 
congested and unsafe areas.
Traffic Safety
Unsafe travel was the number one transportation-related 
concern of Kearns residents responding to the 2020 Land Use 
and T ransportation Survey. Figures 3-19, 3-20, and 3-21 show 
manner and severity of crash for automobile and pedestrian/
bicyclist crashes between 2013 and 2019.
Figure 3-19 reveals that 3,354 crashes occurred during this 
time period. Angled crashes (crashes with vehicles turning left) 
were most common. But the map also reveals a huge number 
of crashes with parked vehicles (418 in total). These occurred 
primarily on residential streets, again pointing to an overtaxed 
on-street parking infrastructure.
Between 2013 and 2019, 86 crashes occurred involving people 
who were walking or biking (Figure 3-20). Four of these crashes 
resulted in fatalities, although only one bicycle crash was fatal 
(intersection of 5415 S and Northwest Avenue). Crashes 
involving people walking and biking occurred primarily along 
Kearns’ busiest roads, including: 4700 S, 5415 S, 6200 S, 
and 4015 W. Only two of the crashes involved a driver under 
the influence of alcohol. Figure 3-21 shows the severity of all 
crashes in Kearns during this time period. 83 crashes resulted 
in fatalities or serious injuries.
Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
 Figure 3-19: Manner of Crash.
113
Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
 Figure 3-21: Crash Severity.
 Figure 3-20: Pedestrian and Bike Crashes.
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Kearns General Plan 114
Public Transportation and Major Transit 
Investment Corridors
transportation. According to the Land Use and T ransportation
Survey, only one respondent reported riding the bus daily. 
Census data reveals that less than five percent of Kearns’ 
population uses public transit to get to work, although females 
ride transit more often than males (ACS 5- Y ear Estimates 2018). 
The amount of transfers required to get from Point A to Point B 
using the bus system is what makes this form of transportation 
particularly difficult. Although several routes serve Kearns, 
routes intersect in few places. Where intersections do occur, 
there is often a shortage of stops, so residents must walk a 
distance to catch the next bus. This problem is exacerbated by 
a lack of seating and bus stop infrastructure to protect people 
waiting. UTA reports that most boardings occur as routes 
head east out of Kearns, and route 54 (along 5400 S) is the 
busiest (UTA 2020). 
“Isolated, there are few options 
connecting to anywhere we need
to go. It takes multiple transfers to get 
to any shopping or downtown and you 
still have to end up walking. It’s terribly 
inconvenient and takes 3-4 times longer 
than driving. It ends up being totally 
impractical.”
- Land Use and Transportation Survey 2020 
Respondent, on Public Transit Service in Residential 
Neighborhoods.
Bus service through Kearns is widespread and frequent, with 
most routes departing every 15 minutes. Routes connect 
Kearns residents to major regional destinations, including 
Murray Central Station (with connection to TRAX and 
FrontRunner lines) and Fashion Place Mall. However, there are 
still challenges to access which prevent most Kearns residents 
from adopting public transit as their main mode of
 Figure 3-22: UTA Bus Routes and Stops through Kearns.
Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
Major T ransit Investment Corridors
State Code requires that Kearns consider Major T ransit 
Investment Corridors in its General Plan. T wo Major T ransit 
Investment Corridors run directly through Kearns (6200 S and 
5400 S), but the Municipality also has access to Bangerter 
Highway and Mountain View Corridor (both Major T ransit 
Investment Corridors). Although Bangerter and Mountain 
What are Major Transit Investment 
Corridors?
In compliance with State Code, every municipality 
with access to a major transit investment corridor must 
consider that corridor in the transportation element of 
the general plan. According to § 10-9a-103. . . 
“‘Major transit investment corridor’ means public transit 
service that uses or occupies:
1. Public transit rail right-of-way;
2. Dedicated road right-of-way for the use of public 
transit, such as bus rapid transit; or
3. Fixed-route bus corridors subject to an interlocal 
agreement or contract between a municipality or 
county and:
• a public transit district as defined in Section 17B-
2a-802; or
• an eligible political subdivision as defined in 
Section 59-12-2219.
115
6200 South – West (Core Bus Service, 15 min 
frequency): Bus Route 62 provides access to the Fashion 
Place Mall TRAX Station. It runs in an east/west direction 
along 6200 South, the busiest arterial through Kearns. By 
the year 2020, WFRC expects 6200 S to be widened to 
seven lanes. The MPO also plans on adding a bike lane with 
access to the Jordan River Parkway. UTA currently reports 
that the average cumulative weekday boarding for all stops 
in Kearns along 6200 S is eight, and most of these occur 
heading east out of Kearns (UTA 2020). This may change in 
the future as development continues to occur west of Kearns.
5400 South Corridor (Core Bus Service, 15 min 
frequency): Bus Route 54 runs to Murray Central Station in 
an east/west direction along 5415 S. This corridor is also one 
of Kearns’ main connections to Bangerter Highway. WFRC 
and UDOT anticipate that this will remain a transit route for 
the next several years. The 5400 transit corridor will become 
even more important to Kearns’ development in the future as 
the T own Center comes to fruition.
 Figure Figure 3-23: Major Transit Investment Corridors.
Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from Wasatch Front Regional Council 2020.
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
View do not pass through Kearns, residents still feel the 
impacts of increasing traffic and construction projects.
Kearns General Plan 116
What are the benefits of walking and biking 
to a community?
Active Transportation
From cost-savings, to health improvements, to 
environmental restoration - the benefits of investing in 
walking and biking infrastructure are numerous. For 
more information on why communities are increasingly 
turning to active transportation, visit Plan4Health.
Use of active forms of transportation, such as walking and 
biking, benefits community health, air quality, and cost of living 
(APA Plan4Health, 2020). Responses to the 2020 Land Use 
and T ransportation Survey revealed that only two respondents 
bike daily, and 33 respondents never bike. Walking was more 
popular, with nineteen respondents reporting that they walk 
daily, while only seven respondents said they never walk. It may 
be tempting to interpret these results as a lack of desire for 
walking and biking in Kearns. But it is important to remember 
that these numbers only speak to the number of people 
who walk and bike given the current conditions of active 
transportation infrastructure. The survey results revealed 
that inadequate walking and biking infrastructure was an 
‘important’ or ‘very important’ transportation concern for 80% 
of respondents. As improvements are made to infrastructure, 
usage is likely to increase.
Kearns benefits from extensive sidewalk coverage, as shown in 
Figure 3-25. However, the network of sidewalks is cut-off by the 
railroad tracks. Pedestrians can only cross the tracks safely in 
two places: 5400 S and 6200 S. Although there is a vehicular 
crossing at 4700 S, no sidewalk is present.
Kearns residents have expressed their desire to preserve 
existing walking and biking facilities, but improvements to 
these facilities are still needed. There is currently only one bike 
lane in Kearns, running north-south from 5400 S to 6200 S 
via Cougar Lane. The existing lane is separated from major 
destinations and neighborhood byways by arterial roads with 
no biking infrastructure. Additionally, the existing facility is a 
conventional bike lane with no protection from vehicular traffic 
(Figure 3-27). This type of facility is inadequate for Cougar 
Lane, which receives a traffic load of over 14,000 cars daily at 
speeds exceeding 35 mph. 
In the Land Use and 
Transportation Survey, one 
respondent voiced their appreciation
for the Harmon’s at 6200 S/Cougar Lane. 
This grocery store provides a pathway 
from the store’s entrance, through the 
back fence line, into the residential 
neighborhoods to the north (Figure 
3-24). Residents are able to walk from 
their homes to the grocery store to 
obtain food, eliminating congestion and 
emissions from car trips.
Figure 3-24: Pathway into Harmon’s Cougar Lane.
Google Maps Street View 2019.
117
 Figures 3-25, 3-26, and 3-27: Kearns Active Transportation.
Paved multi-use path along 4700 
South. Photo credit: Google Maps 
Street View 2019.
Conventional bike lane on Cougar 
Lane in Kearns offers limited 
protection from traffic. Photo credit: 
Google Maps Street View 2019.
Figure 3-28: Kearns Sidewalk Conditions.
Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
Chapter 3 - T ransportation

Kearns General Plan 118
What is the Americans with Disabilities Act? ADA Compliance
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA 1990) 
“prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability 
in employment, State and local government, public 
accommodations, commercial facilities, transportation, 
and telecommunications” (U.S. Department of Justice, 
2020). A person with a disability is defined as someone 
who has a physical or mental impairment that significantly 
hinders one or more major life activities, someone who 
has a history of such impairment, or someone who is 
perceived by others as having such impairment (U.S. 
Department of Justice, 2020).
ADA Legislation has implications for right-of-way 
design. New facilities in the right-of-way (road, sidewalk, 
gutter, other active transportation infrastructure) must 
meet the requirements of ADA, as must any projects 
which involve alteration to the right-of-way (Salt Lake 
City Community and Neighborhoods, 2017). Alteration 
is differentiated from maintenance; alteration impacts 
how a facility is or could be used, while maintenance 
activities simply preserve existing uses. Maintenance 
projects do not require the implementation of ADA-
compliant infrastructure (Salt Lake City Community 
and Neighborhoods, 2017). When designing for ADA 
accessibility, several items must be considered, including:
• Sidewalk width and clearance
• Presence, grade, and direction of ramps from 
sidewalk to or across road
• Presence of detectable warning surfaces
• Visibility of signage and audio pedestrian crossings.
T o learn more, visit the US Access Board.
It is essential that all Kearns residents feel safe and comfortable 
using the transportation network. A person’ s ability to use 
various transportation facilities may be impacted by visual, 
hearing, or mobility impairments. For example, a visual 
impairment may prevent someone from being able to drive a 
car; visual impairments or blindness may also make it difficult 
for someone to use pedestrian crossings which rely on visual 
symbols to indicate when it is safe to walk. Similarly, hearing 
impairments may make it difficult for an individual to navigate 
traffic. Approaching cars may go unnoticed, jeopardizing 
the safety of the individual. Mobility disabilities may prevent 
driving, but can also create challenges for walking, biking, and 
boarding transit. Sidewalks must be wide, clear of debris, and 
include ramps to accommodate wheelchairs, strollers, or other 
mobility devices. While an unplowed bus stop may be just an 
inconvenience for some, it can prevent service entirely to those 
with mobility impairments. In 2018, 2.7 percent of the Kearns 
population reported having hearing difficulty, 2.5% reported 
a visual impairment, and 4.6% reported having ambulatory 
difficulty (ACS 5- Y ear Estimates 2018, T able S1810). In every 
transportation decision made by the Municipality, the unique 
needs of the population must be considered.
While ADA compliance is only required of the Municipality 
in new projects or where major alteration work is occurring, 
it is the vision of the community that the requirements of the 
Americans with Disabilities Act be not just met, but exceeded. 
Figure 3-30 shows an inventory of ADA compliance in existing 
sidewalks around Kearns. Most areas of Kearns exhibit ‘Good’ 
or ‘Moderate’ ADA-compliance, but there are segments of 
sidewalks existing that are non-compliant. The bulk of these 
are in the northern half of the Municipality. These areas of non-
compliance may create barriers for persons with disabilities to 
access community amenities. For example, a main sidewalk 
leading from residential neighborhoods into the Warehouse 
District (shown in Figure 3-29) is non-compliant. Several areas 
north and west of the proposed Kearns T own Center also 
exhibit ‘Bad’ ADA Compliance (or, in other words, are non-
compliant). Over time, these issues of non-compliance will 
need to be addressed to improve overall access to employment 
opportunities, shopping centers, educational facilities, and 
recreational amenities.
When asked in the Land Use 
and Transportation Survey 
which changes would encourage 
the use of transportation modes other 
than single occupancy vehicles, over 44% 
answered “safer sidewalks”. This answer 
was second only to “better location of 
bus and rail stops”. Kearns residents 
express interest in improved sidewalk 
conditions and walkability throughout the 
Municipality.
119
Figure 3-30: Inventory of ADA Compliance in Kearns.
Map created by Avenue Consultants for the Kearns Master T ransportation Plan 2020.
Figure 3-29: Sidewalks on 4850 S, leading 
into the Warehouse District, are narrow 
and overgrown, creating several obstacles 
for persons with mobility disabilities or even 
adults with strollers. The gentleman in the 
picture to the left, caught on Google Map 
Images, chooses to walk in the street rather 
than the sidewalk. Lack of ADA compliance 
may prevent residents in this area of the 
Municipality from walking to employment 
destinations within the Warehouse District. 
(Photo credit: Google Maps, 2020)
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Kearns General Plan 120
Did You Know? What are the transportation habits and patterns of 
Kearns’ residents?
Transportation preferences vary by 
gender, race, age and ability!
• Women are more risk-adverse than men. They are 
less likely to walk or bike if existing infrastructure feels 
unsafe or uncomfortable (NACTO 2017). 
• People of color, particularly Black and Latinx 
individuals, fear exposure to theft, assault, or 
racial profiling by enforcement officers while using 
conventional bike lanes (NACTO 2017). Protected 
bike lanes, separate from vehicular traffic serve this 
population better. 
• Important transportation considerations must also 
be made on the basis of age. Children are less 
visible to drivers, so care must be taken to buffer 
them from traffic. Older members of the population 
may have vision or mobility impairments that need 
consideration. These age groups are also less likely 
to have the ability to drive, making them more 
dependent on active transportation and public 
transit. 
For more on planning facilities for all ages and abilities, 
see NACTO’ s 2017 Guide.
Kearns is primarily a bedroom community. Only 209 residents 
both live and work in Kearns (Figure 3-33). 15,191 residents 
commute out of the community to other destinations in Salt 
Lake Valley and beyond. The majority of the civilian employed 
labor force drives alone to work (Figure 3-32). Carpooling 
is also popular, with over 15% of the population choosing to 
 Figure 3-32: Kearns’ Commute Modes by Gender, 2018.
Source: ACS 5- Y ear Estimates, 2018.
Source: ACS 5- Y ear Estimates, 2018.
 Figure 3-31: How Many Cars Do We Have Access To?
121
Figure 3-33: Inflow and Outflow of Commuters in Kearns.
Figure created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from OnTheMap 2017 .
carpool to work. Carpooling is slightly more popular among 
females than males. The biggest discrepancies between 
commuting modes actually occur between members of 
the Kearns population identifying as Hispanic and those 
identifying as White, Non-Hispanic. For example, nearly 30% 
of residents identifying as Hispanic carpool to work (twice that 
of the percentage of the total population). Hispanic residents 
are also far more likely to take public transit, with over 15% 
using this as their mode of transportation to work (ACS 5- Y ear 
Estimates, 2018). Use of public transit also varies by gender, 
with females being more likely to use transit than males (Figure 
3-32). Less than 5% of Kearns’ civilian labor force works from 
home (Figure 3-32). 
The majority of Kearns residents have three vehicles available 
at home (Figure 3-31). This is evident of a highly autocentric 
community culture. However, nearly 12% of the population has 
access to zero or only one vehicle at home (Figure 3-31). These 
individuals are more likely to rely on active transportation 
infrastructure and public transit to access employment, 
groceries, education, and essential services.
For the population that commutes out of Kearns, the most 
common employment destinations are Salt Lake City and 
West Valley City (OnTheMap 2017). Most of these residents 
travel less than 50 miles to their place of employment. 
People commuting into Kearns for work come from all 
directions, sometimes traveling over 50 miles from their homes 
(OnTheMap 2017). 
Despite a high reliance on automobiles for travel, Kearns 
residents spend 17% less than the average American household 
on transportation-related costs (Esri Business Analyst 2020).
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Kearns General Plan 122
The Value of Regional Planning Drawing from Other Plans
T ransportation planning cannot occur in isolation. 
Streets often cross political boundaries, neighborhood 
districts, and various land uses, transporting people and 
goods to destinations near and far. For a transportation 
system to work, it must be considered from both regional 
and local perspectives. The transportation policies of 
West Valley City inevitably impact Kearns and vice-versa. 
When multiple jurisdictions work together, greater goals 
can be achieved. Individual municipalities in western Salt 
Lake Valley may work together to improve commuter 
lines to Salt Lake City. Kearns may coordinate with 
other cities and metro townships along Mountain View 
Corridor to improve access to the planned inland port. 
Efforts of Salt Lake City to expand the International 
Airport may improve the ability of Kearns to conduct 
trade and attract tourism spending. Kearns benefits 
from the regional planning efforts of Wasatch Front 
Regional Council. This entity works with representatives 
from various northern Utah jurisdictions in order to form 
a cohesive vision for the future of the region. The WFRC 
2019-2050 Regional T ransportation Plan (RTP) is 
discussed in further detail to the right.
Kearns Master T ransportation Plan: A Master 
T ransportation Plan was crafted for Kearns in 2019/2020 
by Salt Lake County Engineering and Avenue Consultants. 
This plan examined existing conditions and collected 
comprehensive input from the community. Feedback from 
the public was gathered through an in-person pop-up event 
at Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness Center, an online survey (124 
respondents), and an interactive project website (1,400 
website visits). The completed master plan included: 
• A proposed capital facilities plan with a timeline for 
implementation. 
• A functional classification of Kearns’ street typologies. 
• Data on traffic volumes, collisions, level of service, public 
transit routes and stops, and existing walking and biking 
infrastructure. 
• Analysis of existing areas of concern in Kearns’ 
transportation infrastructure. 
• An outlined plan for sidewalk improvement and expansion. 
• And a plan for the location and design of future street 
classifications and walking and biking facilities. 
This transportation element re-establishes the goals and 
objectives of Kearns’ residents related to transportation. 
Many of the goals and objectives identified by the community 
add further support to the content of the Kearns Master 
T ransportation Plan. The Plan will be referenced throughout 
this element and should continue to be used by Kearns and 
regional entities to guide decision-making. The Master 
T ransportation Plan is adopted by reference in the Appendix 
of this General Plan.
Wasatch Front Regional Council 2019-2050 Regional 
T ransportation Plan (RTP): The RTP is a fiscally 
constrained plan for regional transportation improvements 
along the Wasatch Front over the next 20 to 30 years. It is 
just one element of a larger vision, the Wasatch Choice 2050. 
The RTP proposes roadway, transit, active transportation, and 
land use projects that work together to achieve the goals of the 
Wasatch Choice 2050. WFRC’ s RTP planning process took 
place over three years and involved extensive engagement 
with local planners and elected officials, industry leaders, 
residents, and other key stakeholders. For more information, 
view the whole plan.
At the August 3rd General Plan
Steering Committee Meeting, 
committee members spent 
considerable time discussing the 
need for inter-agency transportation 
planning. Members longed for greater 
transparency and communication with 
regional transportation authorities 
such as UTA, UDOT, and WFRC. 
These thoughts are reflected in the 
transportation goals presented at the 
end of this chapter. One goal states 
“make integrated transportation 
planning and design decisions”. The 
intent moving forward is that Kearns 
participates actively in regional 
transportation planning.
123
Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from Wasatch Front Regional Council 2020.
Figure 3-34: Future Transportation Projects Planned In and Around Kearns (RTP 2019-2050)
Figure 3-34 shows active transportation and public transit 
projects planned for the Kearns area, according to the RTP. 
WFRC proposes three transit line projects (5415 S, 6200 S, 
and 5600 W). The 5415 S and 6200 S transit lines are both 
proposed as core service bus routes (routes with 15 minute or 
less frequency, expanded hours of operation, and enhanced 
bus stop infrastructure). 5415 S is expected to receive 
improvements during Phase 1 (2019-2030), while 6200 S 
will not be upgraded until Phase 2 (2031-2040). 5600 W 
is proposed as an express bus route (tailored to commuters 
during peak hours) and is included in Phase 1.
Several active transportation projects are proposed in Kearns. 
The majority of these are bike facilities recommended for 
Phase 1 or Phase 2. WFRC’ s plan does include a shared use 
path along the canal in the northeast corner of Kearns. This 
project is expected to occur during Phase 3, and will be an 
anticipated three miles long when completed.
The RTP also designates important land use areas. T wo 
neighborhood centers are proposed within Kearns: West 
Ridge Center and Oquirrh Park Center. Neighborhood centers 
are proposed to revolve around a single store or civic building 
(such as a library or school). Buildings in neighborhood centers 
will vary in height from one to three stories, and some housing 
will be allowed (townhomes, small-scale apartment buildings, 
and small single-family homes). These areas will be accessed 
by walkable and bike-friendly streets, as well as frequent transit 
service. The proposed Kearns T own Center is identified as a 
city center in the RTP, providing services to tens of thousands 
of people in a two or three mile radius. City centers will be 
serviced by a variety of street types, and residential uses of 
medium-density will be allowed. All of these proposed uses 
are consistent with the character areas identified later in this 
General Plan. It is important to note that the RTP is a plan and 
not necessarily an exact determination of future development.
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Kearns General Plan 124
Planned Roadway Expansion Projects
In addition to the proposed transit line and active transportation 
projects shown in Figure 3-35, several roadway expansion projects are 
planned in and around Kearns. These projects will undoubtedly have 
an impact on transportation and land use in Kearns, and they should 
be considered in future decision-making. A map of these proposed 
projects is available on the WFRC Website.
4700 S: this major arterial runs east-west along the northern boundary 
of Kearns. It provides residents access to Mountain View Corridor and 
Bangerter Highway. The arterial also connects the Warehouse District 
Character Area to larger regional markets. Currently, 4700 S ranges 
from three to four lanes. This road is planned for expansion to five lanes 
by the year 2030. The additional one-to-two lanes will accommodate 
greater traffic flow to Mountain View and Bangerter. As planning 
initiatives for this expansion move forward, residents will be looking 
for opportunities to preserve Welcker Memorial Park, the residential 
character of the Mobile and Manufactured Home Community, and 
the economic vitality of the Warehouse District. 
6200 S: currently classified as a minor arterial, 6200 S is planned 
for expansion from a four-to-five lane road to a seven lane road by 
2040. 6200 S runs east-west along the southern border of Kearns 
and primarily passes by residential neighborhoods. However, the 
roadway also offers access to essential commercial clusters, including 
‘Kearns Corner’ and ‘Walkable Commercial Center’ (described in the 
land use chapter of this Plan). Moving forward, residents would like to 
see improved safety conditions at major intersections like 6200 S and 
Cougar Lane, and 6200 S and 5600 W. Many residences back onto 
6200 S, and as the roadway is expanded, planning efforts will need to 
consider how best to buffer residential uses from the adverse impacts 
of increasing traffic. Finally, it will be important to consider how transit 
services are provided along 6200 S as the roadway is expanded; this is 
especially important since Kearns’ only designated senior living facility 
is located near the intersection of 6200 S and 5600 W.
Mountain View: located directly to the west of Kearns, Mountain 
View Corridor connects the western portion of Salt Lake County from 
West Valley City to Bluffdale. Currently, Mountain View Corridor 
consists of two northbound and two southbound lanes. By 2040, 
the Corridor is planned for expansion to three northbound and three 
southbound lanes, with high-occupancy toll (HOT) lanes in both 
directions. Future planning efforts should consider preservation of the 
Mountain View Corridor T rail and expansion of that trail network into 
Kearns, in order to provide non-motorized access along this essential 
transportation corridor.
Map created by MSD Long-Range Planning, using data from Wasatch Front Regional Council 2020.
125
Figure 3-35: Planned Roadway Expansion Projects (RTP 2019-2050)
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Kearns General Plan 126
Moving Forward
On January 30th, 2020, members of  Planning Commissions, 
Councils, General Plan Steering Committees, and the 
general public representing the Metro T ownships and 
Unincorporated Areas of Salt Lake County, met to discuss 
regional transportation values and principles. The goals of 
the meeting included educating local decision-makers on 
key transportation-planning ideas and innovative solutions, 
producing a set of principles and values to guide transportation 
planning in in areas serviced by the MSD, and finding ways 
to link municipalities to regional destinations via shared 
transportation priorities. Thirty-two stakeholders participated 
in the event, including residents and community leaders from 
Kearns, UT.
Although each community represented faces unique 
transportation challenges and opportunities, they share 
common core values and principles. Figure 3-36 portrays 
the prioritized list of principles and values decided upon by 
participants in January’ s meeting.
Any item that received greater than eight votes (25% of 
participants) is considered a priority. The top four most voted-
upon values and principles were:
1. Clean Air
2. Safe, user-friendly streets for all types of users
3. Aligning local and regional needs, and
4. Ongoing engagement of stakeholders in local 
decision making.
Each of these received votes from over 30% of participants. 
This transportation element addresses each of the values 
and principles formulated at the transportation workshop. 
Kearns supports decisions that reduce air pollutants, that 
accommodate users of all ages and abilities, that consider 
regional transportation initiatives, and that create space for 
ongoing community engagement. The work plan that follows 
aligns with these values.
Figure 3-36: List of MSD Transportation Values and Principles, Ranked
Based on the input of participants at the January 2020 T ransportation Planning Principles Workshop.
127
Community Work Program
The next pages detail the transportation work program for 
Kearns. T ables are laid out in a series of goals, objectives, and 
actions to help the community achieve its future transportation 
vision. Every action is accompanied by technical information 
about who should lead the initiative, the proposed timeline 
for completion, the estimated cost, and the metric for success. 
Resources provided link to useful case studies, funding sources, 
or other guidelines for helping Kearns reach its goals. Note that 
the Kearns Metro T ownship Council, as the governing body, is 
granted ownership over this work program. They will have the 
leading role in delegating tasks to ‘responsible parties’ (partner 
departments and organizations).
The transportation work program is the result of robust data-
gathering, coordination with regional transportation plans, 
and extensive community engagement through surveys, 
workshops, and General Plan Steering Committee Meetings.
Figure 3-37: Child rides motorbike with a view of Utah Olympic Oval in the distance. Photo courtesty of Centry Kenyon (2017), derived from 
Google Maps.
The goals included in the work program were developed 
from the SWOT and APAE analyses, with oversight from the 
General Plan Steering Committee (GPSC). Goals are ordered 
by relative importance, based on community feedback (i.e. the 
number of times each goal came up in the analyses, surveys, or 
during GPSC discussions).
Kearns T ransportation Goals:
1. Provide a safe, efficient, and connected transportation 
network. 
2. Increase access to systems and overall ridership on 
public transit.
3. Increase walkability, including pedestrian and bicycle 
connectivity, accessibility, safety, and comfort for people 
of all ages and abilities.
4. Make integrated transportation planning and design 
decisions.
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Kearns General Plan 128
 129
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Savage Services, SLCo
Savage Services and
Kearns General Plan 130
 131
Buffered Bike Lane Protected Bike Lane
Photo Credit: Raleighnc.gov 2020. Photo Credit: Corvallisoregon.gov 2020. Photo Credit: Hoodline 2020.
Conventional Bike Lane
What Does It Mean to Plan for People of All Ages and 
Abilities?
If the goal is to create a multimodal transportation network that 
is accessible and useful to all, then it is necessary to implement 
facilities that work for all ages and abilities. If a conventional bike 
lane, for example, is placed on a road with high traffic volumes 
and speeds, noises, confusing intersections, and obstacles 
(including loading zones, bus stops, and opening doors), users 
of the facility are likely to feel unsafe and uncomfortable. Only 
the most experienced of riders, or the least risk-adverse, are likely 
to use the bike lane, and the facility is unlikely to encourage any 
new riders (NACTO 2017). Several guides exist for planning 
non-motorized transportation infrastructure for persons of 
all ages and abilities. Figure 3-38 shows the NACTO guide 
for choosing bike facilities that accommodate all. Notice that 
vehicle speeds, traffic volumes, and conflict points all influence 
the type of facility recommended for maximum safety and 
comfort. A conventional bike lane currently exists on Cougar 
Lane in Kearns, but Figure 3-38 reveals that the facility is 
inappropriate for the context of the road.
Figure 3-38: Bike Facilities for All Ages and Abilities (NACTO 2017).
Chapter 3 - T ransportation

Kearns General Plan 132
 133
Chapter 3 - T ransportation
Kearns General Plan 134 135Kearns General Plan 134 135
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Car Show Outside Stan’ s Market. Photo Credit: Kearns Community Council, 2017 .  
Kearns General Plan 136
Growth vs. Development Why Plan for Economic Development?
Although the two terms are often used interchangeably, 
growth and development are not synonymous. Growth 
refers to any increase in a measure over time. Economic 
growth could indicate an increase in jobs or in gross 
domestic product (GDP) for example. Development, 
on the other hand, is a more complex and holistic 
term, focusing not just on the increasing measure of 
an indicator but also on whether resulting changes are 
positive or negative, and what impacts changes have 
on various systems. Development typically includes 
some consideration for the overall well-being of human 
populations. 
Dr. M. A. Kamal, Director General of the National 
Academy for Planning and Development (Bangladesh), 
defines development this way, “an unfolding of human 
potentials for meaningful participation in economic, 
social, political, and cultural process and institutions, so 
that people can improve their conditions”(Kamal, 2011). 
Economic development looks at upward mobility, quality 
of life, diversity of businesses, and the ability for residents 
to meet daily employment, shopping, service, and 
financing needs. This element of Kearns’ General Plan 
therefore focuses on economic development, a critical 
component of Kearns’ future success. 
While considered an optional element of a general plan by 
the State of Utah, this Economic Development element is 
critical for guiding decisions related to employment, business, 
and economic opportunities in Kearns. The element focuses 
on expanding and strengthening Kearns’ economy in a 
sustainable, community-oriented, and fiscally responsible 
manner. A mix of market research, community feedback, 
and local and regional plan integration informs the goals, 
objectives, and actions included in this section.
Economic opportunities are tied to land use, transportation, 
housing, infrastructure, and resiliency decisions, as well as 
community history and identity. In Utah, sales tax revenue 
funds much of a Metro T ownship’ s budget, and Kearns’ land 
use ordinances determine how many properties can generate 
sales tax. Local zoning determines where which types of 
businesses – home occupations, retail, industrial development 
– are allowed and how they can operate. The connectedness 
of the transportation network influences how convenient it is 
for customers and businesses to reach each other, potentially 
influencing a business’ ability to move products. Meanwhile 
Kearns’ resident population serves as a market that sets the 
framework for which business types can succeed. Housing 
costs determine how much income a household has left to 
spend on goods and services, including food, entertainment, 
and recreation. Community aesthetics such as curb appeal 
(the attractiveness of a property when viewed from the 
street), attract customers and impact business success. 
Well-maintained, safe infrastructure supports economic 
development, and at the same time, economic growth enables 
infrastructure maintenance. Likewise, economically diverse 
communities are more resilient to hazards and changes (e.g. 
pandemics, earthquakes, demographic change). All of these 
connections encourage taking an integrated approach to 
economic development planning in Kearns.  
Who is Involved in Fostering Economic Development in 
Kearns?
Local Customers – Purchasing local goods and services 
boosts sales revenue within Kearns, contributes to a positive 
business climate within the community, and establishes 
personal connections among community members. The 
potential market area for Kearns includes Kearns residents, 
people living on the Municipality’ s peripheries, and future 
residents in new subdivisions in and adjacent to Kearns. 
Some unique restaurants, shops, and services could attract 
When SWOT Analysis 
participants were asked 
what the greatest opportunities 
were for the future of development 
in Kearns, one respondent 
answered, “encourage growth of 
small businesses like Utopia”. In 
addition to supporting business 
growth, participants saw the value 
of investing in up-and-coming tech 
businesses. The community hoped 
that investing in technology would 
seek to simultaneously attract more 
businesses.
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 
137
What Resources are Available for Economic 
Development in Kearns?
Chamber West: Chamber West represents the business 
communities of West Valley City, City of T aylorsville, West 
Jordan City, and Kearns. The Chamber advocates for the 
interests of the business community in legislative matters, offers 
networking opportunities to members, and promotes member 
businesses through social media and other advertising. T o 
learn more, visit their website.
Suazo Business Center: The Suazo Business Center is 
dedicated to the development and empowerment of Latino/
Hispanic and other underserved communities in the Salt Lake 
Area. The Center specifically supports business leaders and 
entrepreneurs through bilingual consulting, education and 
training, workshops, and sharing of resources. Between 2018 
to 2019, Suazo Business Center services resulted in the creation 
of 277 new businesses, and 408 new jobs. Learn more here.
Salt Lake County Economic Development: Salt Lake 
County Economic Development plays an important role in 
advancing sustainable economic development in the region. 
In addition to being involved in planning processes, the 
Department offers direct services to businesses, including 
revolving loan funds, EPA funded loans and grants, and the 
administration of redevelopment project areas. Visit their 
website to learn more.
U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA): The SBA is a 
federal agency dedicated to helping small business owners and 
entrepreneurs. The Administration offers business counseling, 
capital, and contracting expertise, including export and trade 
assistance.  Utah’ s branch of the SBA is located in Salt Lake 
City (learn more here). 
EPA Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund: Brownfields are 
properties where expansion, redevelopment, or reuse can 
be complicated by the presence (or potential presence) of 
contamination. The Wasatch Brownfields Coalition has one 
million dollars in an EPA Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund 
(RLF). These low interest loans and grants are available to 
eligible entities seeking to cleanup and redevelop brownfield 
sites in SLCo. Visit their website for more information.
Opportunity Zone: Census T ract 49035113802 in Kearns 
is a designated Opportunity Zone (Figure 4-1), providing 
significant opportunities for further development and 
investment. Learn more by visiting this website. 
customers from outside markets, including residents of West 
Valley City, West Jordan, T aylorsville, and beyond. 
Local Business Owners – Businesses that residents consider 
an amenity or desired community destination benefits the 
owner’ s net revenue, makes community projects possible 
through sales tax revenue generation, and can promote the 
development of commercial activity nodes throughout Kearns. 
Local business owners are integrated in their communities 
and may offer employment opportunities for other Kearns’ 
residents.
Appointed and Elected Officials – Since economic 
success is tied to land use, transportation, and many other 
community elements, the decisions of appointed and elected 
officials directly influence Kearns’ economic development 
opportunities. T ransparent processes, fiscal responsibility, 
and community-informed decision-making help ensure that 
choices foster economic wellbeing. 
The Region – Kearns’ economy does not operate in isolation; 
it interacts with and is influenced daily by the greater regional 
economy. Events that bring people to Kearns and celebrate 
local businesses help create a culture for economic success. 
Meanwhile, maintaining awareness of regional trends ensures 
continuing relevance and enables alignment with local and 
regional visions for the provision of goods and services and the 
promotion of economic well-being.
Figure 4-1: Opportunity Zone in Kearns, highlighted in red. 
(Photo credit: Gridics, 2020).
Kearns General Plan 138
Existing Local and Regional Economic 
Development Plans
A few planning efforts have already sought to advance 
economic opportunities in Kearns. This Chapter of the General 
Plan interacts with existing local and regional plans to create 
a cohesive community vision for the future state of the Kearns 
economy.
Kearns T own Center Master Plan: The Kearns T own Center 
Master Plan was completed in March of 2019 and is included 
in the Appendix of this General Plan. The plan focuses on the 
redevelopment of an existing commercial area on 5415 S, 
along Kearns’ eastern border (see Figure 4-2). The intention of 
the redevelopment is to provide a commercial town center and 
community gathering place for Kearns, while simultaneously 
boosting the local economy. The development is proposed 
to be mixed use, offering retail, dining, entertainment, 
office space, civic buildings (including the library and police 
substation) and limited residential uses (GSBS Consulting, 
2019). In addition, the plan creates a vision for the Kearns 
T own Center which includes walkable streets, outdoor dining, 
plazas and programmed activities, and a transit hub (ibid). 
Community feedback on this plan was gathered through 
steering committee meetings, two public open houses, and 
a survey (ibid). However, existing local business owners 
(including owners of over 16 small, Latinx businesses) in this 
area need to be closely involved in the implementation of 
the plan to avoid their unintentional displacement or other 
inequitable outcomes.
Wasatch Choice 2050: The Wasatch Choice 2050 is 
a regional plan developed by the Wasatch Front Regional 
Council (WFRC), creating a robust and collaborative vision 
for the entire Wasatch Front, including the area in and 
surrounding Kearns. Several transportation improvements are 
planned for Kearns and are highlighted in Chapter 3 of this 
General Plan. Wasatch Choice 2050 also proposes land use 
clusters to help direct sustainable and beneficial growth. The 
land use areas most impacting Kearns are shown in Figure 
3-34 of the T ransportation Chapter. The Wasatch Choice 
2050 incorporated voices from around the Valley and was a 
collaborative planning effort with municipal staff, residents, 
regional experts, and other stakeholders (WFRC 2020). The 
plan includes three phases for proposed implementation, as 
designated by WFRC:
• Phase 1: Improvements expected 2019-2030.
• Phase 2: Improvements expected 2031-2040.
• Phase 3: Improvements expected 2041-2050.
Kearns City Center: This area closely aligns with the Kearns 
T own Center. WFRC envisions the Kearns City Center as a 
land use cluster including a grocery store and neighborhood 
commercial uses (WFRC 2020). Residential dwellings are also 
proposed for this area, with a density ranging between ten and 
fifty dwelling units per acre and building heights ranging from 
two to five stories (ibid). The project is included in Phase 2 of 
the WFRC vision. 
Oquirrh Park Center: The Oquirrh Park Center is proposed 
along the southwestern corner of Oquirrh Park. WFRC’ s plan 
intended for this space to be centered around a grocery store or 
civic building (such as a school or library) (WFRC 2020). Other 
compatible uses were identified as a restaurant or pharmacy 
(ibid). Residential uses were considered for this area as well, at 
a density of six to twenty-five dwelling units per acre. Most of 
the land proposed for the Oquirrh Park Center has since been 
developed, as a subdivision with single-family homes. The park 
itself is also undergoing renovations, consistent with the Salt 
Lake County 2015 Parks and Recreation Facilities Master Plan. 
The Oquirrh Park Center is slated for Phase 2 of the plan (ibid).
West Ridge Center: Uses proposed for the West Ridge 
Center are identical to those proposed for the Oquirrh Park 
Center. These uses closely align with the Kearns community’ s 
vision for this area (Neighborhood Mixed Use Character Area 
in the land use chapter). The neighborhood center would 
include a mix of small-scale residential and commercial uses. 
The WFRC proposes limiting building heights to one to three 
stories, emphasizing the need to make this area compatible 
with the existing residential neighborhoods that surround it 
(WFRC 2020). One challenge with this site is that ownership 
is shared between West Valley City and Kearns; future 
collaboration will be critical to the success of this site. WFRC 
has included West Ridge Center in phase one of its plan (ibid). 
139
 Figure 4-2: Proposed Kearns Town Center 2019
Source: Kearns T own Center Master Plan, GSBS 2019.
Centers on the periphery of Kearns: A few other land use 
centers exist adjacent to or within close proximity to Kearns. 
These include Hexcel Corporation, Summit Vista Center, 
South Valley Airport, and West Valley 6200 South 5600 
West. Summit Vista (east) and West Valley 6200 South 5600 
West (south) are both proposed as neighborhood centers, 
similar to the West Ridge Center previously described (WFRC, 
2020). Both of these areas have already been developed to 
some capacity, with the West Valley location currently serving 
as a Walmart Supercenter, and Summit Vista hosting a 
retirement community. The South Valley Airport is classified as 
a regionally-significant special district; its use is not expected 
to change substantially (ibid). Hexcel Corporation is proposed 
as a land use cluster west of Kearns, at the intersection of 
Mountain View Corridor and 5400 South (ibid). This area is 
currently home to Hexcel Corporation, and its uses will continue 
as light and heavy industrial, including some incidental retail 
and office uses (ibid). Hexcel Corporation is within close 
proximity to Kearns’ Warehouse District (Camp Kearns). 
Collaborative planning efforts could improve transportation 
connections and competitiveness of both locations, protecting 
local employment opportunities.
While these land use clusters reflect the regional vision of the 
Wasatch Valley, more work may be needed to align regional 
and local interests. For more information on the Wasatch 
Choice 2050, visit their website.
Kearns Economic Development Plan: Salt Lake County 
Economic Development is currently working on a detailed 
Economic Development Plan for Kearns that will supplement 
the work in this General Plan Chapter. The completed 
product will provide a technical strategy for Kearns to pursue 
the economic development vision outlined within the Kearns 
General Plan. The expected timeline of completion is late 
2020 or early 2021. This Chapter can be updated or amended 
as needed to better align with the proposed details of that plan 
once it is available.
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 

Kearns General Plan 140
Key Terms used in this Section: Existing Conditions: Regional
Several key terms are defined here to help the reader 
navigate the analyses that follow.
Location Quotient: Measures the concentration of an 
industry sector in the local geography compared to a 
larger reference geography. LQ < 1 = local concentration 
is smaller than in the reference geography; LQ 1 = local 
concentration is same as in the reference geography; LQ 
> 1 = local concentration exceeds that of the reference 
geography.
Shift Share: Reveals how much of industry growth in 
an area can be attributed to regional trends and how 
much can be attributed to local advantages (broken into 
national growth effect, industrial mix effect, and regional 
competitive effect).
Vacancy Rate: The percentage of total units of real 
estate that are unoccupied. Decreases in vacancy rates 
represent increased demand for a type of real estate, 
while increases in vacancy rates indicate decreased 
demand.
Net Absorption: The net change in occupied real estate, 
accounting for space vacated and newly constructed 
space occupied (measured in square footage). 
Kearns is located within Salt Lake County and the Salt Lake 
– West Valley City Metropolitan Area. The Municipality is 
influenced by the growth that has been occurring throughout 
the Salt Lake Valley and is connected to regional destinations 
via Mountain View Corridor, Bangerter Highway (UT 154), 
and the Savage Services Corporation rail line that runs north-
south through the middle of Kearns. Examining regional 
market trends helps us to understand Kearns’ role within a 
broader economy and the arising opportunities that may lead 
to future economic success.
Location Quotient and Shift Share
Location quotient and shift share can be analyzed together to 
help communities understand their competitive advantage in 
a particular industry as well as local and national trends in the 
prominence of that industry over time. For the purposes of this 
study, changes in county employment by industry between the 
years 2018 and 2019 were analyzed in comparison to national 
changes to identify emerging, growing, transforming, and 
declining industries in Salt Lake County (see Figure 4-3).
Interpreting Figure 4-3
Figure 4-3 shows Salt Lake County industries organized into 
four quadrants based on the values of the calculated Location 
Quotient (LQ) and Shift Share (Local Effect). Descriptions of 
each quadrant follow:
Emerging: Emerging industries are those that have a high 
local effect (shift share) but a low local concentration (location 
quotient). These industries have potential to move into the 
‘growing’ category as employment increases in Salt Lake 
County relative to the referent geography (United States).
Growing: Growing industries have a high local effect and 
high location quotient. Salt Lake County has a competitive 
advantage in these industries, and the number of people 
employed in the industries is expected to continue growing.
Declining: Declining industries have a low location quotient 
and low local effect. These industries employ few Salt Lake 
County residents and any change in employment is largely 
consistent with national trends.
T ransforming: T ransforming industries have a high local 
concentration and low local effect. Although employment in 
these industries in Salt Lake County may be high compared 
to national employment, these industries are still largely on the 
decline. 
“Quality of life and overall 
business climate are our 
real incentives. They are the 
biggest attractors to our state. 
That makes it pretty hard to 
beat, even for states that offer a 
larger incentive.
— Val Hale, executive director, GOED; 
speaking on economic development in the 
State of Utah (Business in Utah, 2019).
141
Figure 4-3: Emerging, Growing, Declining, and Transforming Industries in Salt Lake County (2018-2019).
Salt Lake County’ s emerging and growing industries offer the 
most potential for future economic development activities. 
Emerging industries are already seeing an increase in 
growth attributed to regional trends, but do not yet have the 
advantage of a local concentration. The outlook for these 
industries is promising, and extra interventions can help 
promote their growth. Growing industries are already strong, 
experiencing increases in growth AND a local concentration. 
However, economic development policies are still needed 
to help maintain and enhance existing businesses that are 
included in and/or support these industries.
In Salt Lake County, the most prominent emerging industries 
are Retail T rade, Accommodation and Food Services, 
Manufacturing, and Other Services. These industries demand 
commercial real estate, namely retail spaces and some industrial 
space to serve manufacturing needs. Growing industries 
include Professional and T echnical Services, T ransportation 
and Warehousing, Wholesale T rade, and Education Services. 
These industries relate to office and industrial real estate, and 
may indicate growing demand for flex industrial spaces, a 
mix of office, warehouse, and showroom uses with movable 
infrastructure within one building.
Economic development efforts that focus on Salt Lake 
County’ s declining and transforming industries are less likely to 
be successful. Although the County may have strong location 
quotients for industries such as Finance and Insurance, local 
conditions are likely to continue leading to decreases in total 
employment in these sectors.
Source: Created by MSD Staff using Bureau of Labor Statistics, Quarterly Census of  Employment and Wages (2018 Q1, 2019 Q1).
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 

Kearns General Plan 142
The Value of Real Estate Market Analysis 
in Planning
A central part of the planning process involves deciding 
what uses are compatible where. Planners consider the 
vision of residents, surrounding uses, transportation 
patterns, soil quality, and a host of other factors as 
they make these decisions. What planners have often 
neglected to consider is what uses the market will support 
in a given location. 
Real Estate Market Analysis is the process of analyzing 
supply and demand for various uses in a specific location. 
It may consider demographics of potential customers 
and employees, real estate vacancy rates, lease rates, 
nearby competition, regional trends, and surplus or 
leakage (demand) for certain retail categories. The 
ultimate goal of Real Estate Market Analysis to help us 
determine what use (residential, office, retail, industrial) 
is most likely to be economically successful on a site. 
The results help planners reconcile what is desired in a 
community with what is possible.  
For example, perhaps a group of residents wants to see 
an indoor shopping mall created in their neighborhood. 
Real estate market analysis would tell us that:
1. Nationally, enclosed shopping malls are a declining 
real estate asset.
2. Another shopping center, with several department 
stores, operates in the trade area and would likely 
compete with a mall in this location.
3. The local market supports a surplus of sales in 
clothing, sporting goods, and entertainment in the 
community. Meaning there are less sales available 
to capture.
The informed planner would realize that a shopping 
mall is unlikely to be successful in the area. But perhaps 
a small mixed-use development, serving neighborhood 
commercial needs could prosper. Sharing this essential 
data with the community will help them formulate a 
better decision about how the property could be used.
Market data helped to inform the vision for land use, 
transportation, and economic development strategies 
contained in this Plan.
Real Estate Market Reports
A review of recent market real estate trends in Northern Utah 
supplements location quotient and shift share data. In general, 
real estate of all types is in high demand in Northern Utah. 
Population growth has fueled the need for new products, 
services, and businesses. But retail real estate has the best 
outlook, with a low vacancy rate expected to keep declining. 
Office real estate is being quickly absorbed, but most 
construction has been concentrated in Silicon Slopes. Other 
areas of Salt Lake County are less likely to be able to compete 
in providing office space. T raditional industrial real estate 
is showing signs of market saturation, but flex spaces have 
a low vacancy rate and few such spaces are currently under 
construction.
 
Retail: While many consumer sales are moving online, recent 
retail growth has been in restaurants, entertainment, grocery, 
specialty shops, and automotive (NAS 2019). Vacancy rates in 
retail real estate are decreasing, leading to higher lease rates. 
In 2019, the retail vacancy rate for Northern Utah was 4.2% 
(ibid). The vacancy rate is even lower for the southern Salt 
Lake Valley, at 3.4% (ibid). Past strip mall models have fallen 
out of favor with many consumers, and retail redevelopment 
has focused on new town centers, walkable outdoor shopping 
plazas, and themed commerce plazas.
Office: Office vacancy rates also decreased but remain at 
around 6% in Northern Utah and a little lower in the Southern 
Salt Lake Valley (NAS 2019). New construction in the last three 
years has been almost entirely absorbed by the market (high 
net absorption), but the greatest demand for office real estate 
is concentrated in the Silicon Slopes area (ibid).  
Industrial: Vacancy rates for industrial real estate are low 
(4%) but increasing in Northern Utah (NAS 2019). The square 
footage of industrial space that was under construction in 
2019 exceeded the total square footage absorbed in 2018, 
indicating that supply may be keeping pace or soon exceeding 
demand (ibid). However, vacancy rates for flex industrial 
spaces are lower (3.3%) than for traditional industrial real 
estate and few flex spaces have been constructed in Northern 
Utah in the past year. 
143
Regional Assets
Silicon Slopes: Silicon Slopes is the “cluster of tech companies 
and startups along the Interstate 15 corridor linking Utah and 
Salt Lake counties (Semerad, 2019a).” This cluster, which 
is home to global tech companies like Adobe, Ebay, and 
Qualtrics, has experienced explosive growth over the past 
decade and been a boon to Utah’ s economy, attracting 
millions in investment, top tech talent from all around the 
world, and high-paying, skilled jobs (Semerad, 2019b).
The success of the tech sector in Utah could influence Kearns 
in the following ways:
• In partnership with Silicon Slopes tech companies, Utah 
Governor Gary Herbert pledged millions of dollars over 
the next several years to increase tech instruction in Utah 
middle schools, especially for disadvantaged populations. 
Kearns has significantly lower education levels than the 
rest of Salt Lake County, so schools in Kearns could be 
on the forefront of the state’ s tech education initiative. 
Initiatives like this could also expand into local university 
or community college technical programs in Salt Lake 
County.
• The success of Silicon Slopes also increases the need for a 
more robust supply chain and industrial infrastructure that 
supports these tech companies. The Warehouse District 
Character Area (see the Land Use Chapter) represents 
an industrial/manufacturing hub that could be host to this 
support system (Pace, 2019).
Utah’ s Inland Port: An inland port is a site “located away 
from traditional land, air and coastal borders that possess 
strong transportation assets and inland distribution centers. 
Goods are off-loaded from ships and moved to inland ports for 
handling and redistribution (Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute, 
2016). Over the past several years, a significant amount 
of funding and research has been dedicated to assessing 
the feasibility of an inland port in Utah, specifically in the 
Northwest Quadrant of Salt Lake City. In 2018, the Utah State 
Legislature created the Utah Inland Port Authority to guide 
decision-making over this issue (Utah Inland Port Authority, 
2020). 
The development of the Inland Port has met with some 
controversy, however. The authority of the State to take the lead 
in developing the area was challenged in court by Salt Lake 
City (Stevens, 2020), and activists have raised concerns over 
environmental issues, transparency, and the accountability 
of the Port Authority. Some public meetings held by the Port 
Authority have boiled over into protesters’ clashing with police 
(Raymond and McKellar, 2019).
If the Utah Inland Port is built, it will have an intergenerational 
influence on Utah’ s economy. Kearns is only a 20-minute drive 
from the proposed Inland Port area and the Salt Lake City 
international airport, so the Port could also have significant 
effects on Kearns’ economy and its working population:
• According to an Inland Port Market Assessment  done 
by the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute (2016), the inland 
port could potentially create a new “jobs” center for Utah, 
with plenty of job opportunities and attractive wages. This 
could be a boon for the working population in Kearns, 
who could find promising jobs with high wages with only a 
20-minute commute. It also could create the opportunity 
for increased industrial, manufacturing, and distribution 
development within the borders of Kearns to act as 
logistical support for the Inland Port.
• The assessment also notes that an inland port “would 
require significant transportation investments and 
collaboration.” These include improvements to highways, 
short-haul rail, and other transportation investments. 
Because a rail line runs through Kearns, and the 
Municipality is bordered by the Bangerter Highway, we 
could see more investment in regional transportation 
infrastructure.
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 
(Figure 4-4)
Kearns General Plan 144
Existing Conditions: Local
Demographic Overview and Employment Data
Kearns has a growing population. In 2020, the population 
was estimated at 36,867; by 2025, projections estimate a 
population of 38,307 (Esri Business Analyst – Community 
Profile, 2020). During this five-year time period, the median 
income of Kearns’ households is also expected to rise: from 
$62,370 in 2020 to $67 ,917 in 2025 (ibid). Kearns represents 
a young population, with a median age of 30.3, lower than 
both the County and State medians (ibid). Although the 
median age is expected to increase by 2025, Kearns is aging 
at a slower rate than surrounding municipalities. Family size in 
the Municipality has actually been increasing since 2000, and 
in 2025, the family size is projected to be 3.94 (ibid). Kearns 
also stands out from other Salt Lake County Metro T ownships 
because of its diversity; the community represents one of 
the most diverse in the County. In 2020, a third of residents 
identified as some race other than White (ibid). Approximately 
36 percent of residents identify as Hispanic, and that 
percentage is expected to keep growing into 2025 (ibid).
Kearns has a Civilian Labor Force (16 years+) population of 
19,932 (Esri Business Analyst – Market Profile, 2020). The 
labor force participation rate was estimated at 73.1% in 2018. 
In 2020, 91.6% of the civilian labor force was employed, 
while unemployment was approximately 8.4% (Esri Business 
Analyst – Market Profile, 2020). The high unemployment rate 
at the time of this data collection was likely a result of the 2020 
COVID-19 pandemic’ s devastating impacts on the global 
economy. In 2018, the estimated unemployment rate was only 
4.9% (ACS 5- Y ear Estimates, 2018). Educational attainment 
of the population 25 and older is low. Over 20% of residents 25 
and over never graduated high school (Esri Business Analyst – 
Market Profile, 2020). Approximately 45% of the population 
received some college education after high school (ibid). This 
has changed little since 2010. However, new investments in 
training and education programs could improve the overall 
wellbeing of Kearns residents.
The majority of Kearns’ workers are employed in the service 
industry or in labor positions in construction or manufacturing 
industries. In 2020, 35.9% of the civilian labor force was 
estimated to work in Blue Collar positions, while 49.7% worked 
in White Collar positions (Esri Business Analyst – Market 
Profile, 2020). The top five industries and occupations by 
employment are listed on the following page (derived from Esri 
Business Analyst, 2020):
Source: Esri Business Analyst Data, 2020.
145
T op Industries by Employment of Kearns Residents:
1. Services
2. Manufacturing
3. Retail T rade
4. Construction
5. Finance/Insurance/Real Estate
T op Occupations by Employment of Kearns Residents:
1. Administrative Support
2. Services
3. Professional
4. Production
5. T ransportation/Material Moving
Summary of Existing Kearns’ Businesses
There are 240 businesses currently active in Kearns, hiring 
a total of 3,416 employees (Esri Business Analyst – Business 
Summary, 2020). Ninety-five of these businesses are classified 
as Services, while sixty are classified as Retail T rade, and 
Figure 4-5: Kearns Existing Businesses, Classified (2020).
Source: Esri Business Analyst – Business Summary, 2020.
another twenty-four are classified as Construction (ibid). 
These were the three most common types of businesses in 
Kearns (see Figure 4-5). Even though the business offerings in 
Kearns strongly align with the top industries Kearns’ residents 
are employed in, the number of residents who live and work 
in Kearns is low. In 2017 , only 209 civilian employed residents 
living in Kearns also worked in Kearns (On the Map, 2017). 
Over 98% of the civilian labor force was commuting outside of 
Kearns for employment (ibid).
Of the businesses classified as services, the most common 
were Amusement and Motion Pictures (15) and Education 
and Libraries (14) (Esri Business Analyst – Business Summary, 
2020). Surprisingly, despite the existence of several service and 
retail businesses and despite the fact that the community is 
home to the Utah Olympic Oval and adjacent to the USANA 
Amphitheatre, both major tourist draws, there were no hotel 
or lodging facilities registered in Kearns (ibid). A quick search 
of vacation rental sites also did not yield any results for the 
Municipality. While lodging and accommodations may not be 
desirable in all parts of the Municipality, they could be welcome 
in denser commercial areas such as the proposed T own Center, 
or the Kearns Corner area (see Land Use Chapter).
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 

Kearns General Plan 146
Kearns’ Spending Patterns
Households in Kearns spend less than the average American 
household in every spending category (Esri Business Analyst – 
Market Profile, 2020). Relative to other American households, 
Kearns residents spend the most on Personal Care (84% 
of what the average American household spends) (ibid). 
Households in Kearns spend the least amount on education, 
spending only 72% of what the average American household 
would typically spend (ibid). Figure 4-6 shows Kearns’ annual 
household expenditures broken into categories. By dollar 
amount, housing is the single largest household expenditure, 
with the average Kearns household spending $15,667 .62 on 
shelter every year (ibid).
Figure 4-6: Kearns’ Annual Average Household 
Expenditures, 2020.
T apestry segments are subsets of the population that are 
grouped together based on demographics and market 
characteristics. Spending patterns differ based on the tapestry 
segment that households belong to. There are three main 
tapestry segments in Kearns: American Dreamers, Up and 
Coming Families, and Home Improvement (Esri Business 
Analyst – Market Profile, 2020). The characteristics and 
spending preferences of each are highlighted in Figures 4-7 , 
4-8, and 4-9. The data and terminology used in this section 
is derived directly from Esri Business Analyst T apestry Reports, 
2020 (see Appendix). The terms used were not decided upon 
by the community, nor do they bear the same definitions as 
similar terms, such as “DACA ’ s American Dreamers”. For more 
information on tapestry segmentation, refer to the glossary in 
the Appendix.
A few common trends emerge among the three primary 
tapestry groups:
1. All three tapestry groups spend less than the U.S. 
average household spends on education. Despite this 
relatively low spending, two of the tapestry groups 
are as educated or more educated than national 
averages. Only the American Dreamers tapestry has 
low educational attainment.
2. A significant proportion of Kearns households like to 
spend disposable income on family activities. Over 75% 
of the population belongs to the American Dreamers or 
Up and Coming Families T apestries. These households 
spend on trips to zoos and amusement parks, as well as 
on television streaming subscriptions, movies at home, 
and video games. Members of this tapestry segment 
enjoy activities that involve the whole family.
3. Kearns’ residents are good about investing in Pensions 
and Social Security. Over 42% of households belong 
to tapestry segments that spend above the U.S. 
household average on Pensions and Social Security. 
This is extremely interesting given the fact that Kearns 
is such a young population.
4. T apestry data suggests that most Kearns residents 
own the single-family homes they reside in. The Home 
Improvement tapestry segment prefers to spend money 
and time working on their homes. As households in the 
other two tapestry segments age and move into better 
paying positions, Kearns may see higher demand for 
home improvement products and services.
5. T apestry spending patterns align with community goals 
identified in the upcoming sections. Kearns households 
like to spend on family-friendly activities, such as those 
that will presumably be available in the ‘Recreation 
Hub’ Character Area (Chapter 2). T wo of the tapestry 
segments also spend above U.S. averages on apparel 
and services and food. These products and services, 
as well as home improvement and decor items, could 
potentially be provided in the proposed Kearns T own 
Center.
Source: Esri Business Analyst - Household Budget Expenditures, 2020.
147
Source: Esri Business Analyst – Market Profile (2020).
Figure 4-7: American Dreamers, Esri Tapestry
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 
Figure 4-8: Up and Coming Families, Esri TapestryFigure 4-9: Home Improvement, Esri Tapestry
Kearns General Plan 148
Leakage and Surplus
Leakage is best described as capital that exits a local economic 
system rather than staying in it.  In this analysis, leakage is the 
dollar amount that households in and around Kearns spend on 
goods and services that are provided outside of their home zip 
codes (we analyzed 84118, 84120, and 84081). Surplus, on 
the other hand, describes the money that is spent on products 
and services in and around Kearns from outside residents. In 
other words, are some businesses attracting spending from 
residents outside of the Kearns area? Leakage and surplus are 
indispensable for telling us where Kearns has a competitive 
advantage and in what areas they may be able to expand 
opportunities in order to capture more local dollars. Figure 4-11 
shows leakage and surplus by retail sector. 
Retail sectors highlighted in orange represent those where 
leakage is occurring. Retail sectors highlighted in gray represent 
areas where there is surplus. Most sectors are experiencing 
leakage, but there are surpluses in sales for specialty food 
stores, office supply/stationary/gift stores, new car dealers, 
grocery stores, beer/wine/liquor stores, and automotive parts/
accessory stores (Figure 4-11). Economic development efforts 
pertaining to retail should be focused on capturing sales 
in the retail sectors where leakage (both dollar amount and 
ratio) is highest. The five sectors with the most opportunity for 
capturing local sales are:
1. Building Material & Supplies Dealers (potential 
sales = $168,148,372)
2. Clothing Stores (potential sales = $73,607 ,256)
3. Department Stores (potential sales = $285,499,925)
4. Restaurants and Other Eating Places (potential 
sales = $207 ,331,602)
5. Used Car Dealers (potential sales = $65,637 ,781)
However, local competition also has an impact on which 
retail businesses can be successful in Kearns. While most 
department and clothing stores (including shopping malls) 
and used car dealerships are a ten-minute drive or farther from 
the center of Kearns, there are a few hardware stores (building 
material and supplies dealers) that exist right on the periphery 
of the Municipality. Jordan Landing (pictured in Figure 4-10) 
is approximately 3.6 miles (a ten-minute drive) from Oquirrh 
Park in Kearns and can draw a larger market population 
due to its location along Bangerter Highway and amidst 
the development of several new subdivisions in the rapidly-
growing Jordans (Google Maps 2020). Investment in retail 
opportunities could bring a new influx of spending into the local 
economy, but such investments must be strategically planned 
to provide products and services that align with the spending 
patterns of local residents and offer quality, experience, or 
variety not present in other local shopping destinations.
Source: Building Salt Lake, 2020.
Figure 4-10: Jordan Landing Shopping Center Site Plan, West Jordan
149
 Figure 4-11: Leakage and Surplus by Retail Sector for Zip Codes: 84118, 84120, and 84081.
Source: Derived from Esri Business Analyst Data for the Zip Codes 84118, 84120, and 84081 (2019).
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 

Kearns General Plan 150
How has COVID-19 Impacted the Local 
Economy?
Access to Broadband and Other Digital 
Infrastructure
At the time of the writing of this document, the world 
was swept up in the Coronavirus pandemic. The highly 
infectious virus caused the world to shift the way it 
conducted business almost overnight. Restaurants 
moved to delivery and carry-out options. Movie 
releases occurred over streaming services rather than in 
theaters. And many workers moved from an in-person to 
remote work setting, if they were lucky enough to retain 
employment during the trying times. Over 1,200 Kearns 
residents tested positive for the virus in 2020.
Unemployment: In Salt Lake County, the average new 
unemployment claims filed per week before the onset of 
the COVID-19 pandemic was 492. After the virus took 
hold, the average number of new claims weekly was 
3,707 . (Salt Lake County Economic Impact Information 
Portal).
Sales T ax: Despite shifting economic realities, taxable 
sales in Kearns for the year 2020 has exceeded 2019 
sales in every month. The only retail category which saw 
less taxable sales than in the previous year was Building 
Materials and Garden Equipment. (Salt Lake County 
Economic Impact Information Portal).
Expected Changes: In September of 2020, the Kem C. 
Gardner Policy Institute prepared a report on Salt Lake 
County’ s Economic Horizon following the pandemic. 
They expected the following major economic shifts to 
occur:
1. A new paradigm for banking
2. De-globalization, with a focus on shortening 
supply chains.
3. T ech-enabled services, with continued 
reliance on telecommuting and e-commerce.
4. Changing demand for commercial real 
estate.
Read the full presentation here.
Although the pandemic will have lasting impacts on the 
economy, governments and non-profits have stepped up 
to mitigate some of the negative outcomes. Loans and 
grants, waived licensing fees, moratoriums on eviction, 
and other programs helped to assist households. A list of 
programs that are/were active in Kearns is found in the 
Appendix of this General Plan.
Kearns residents and businesses rely on high-speed internet 
access for many aspects of modern life. It is the gateway to 
more and better jobs, improved educational access for many 
children, a portal to public services and quality healthcare, 
and generally improves quality of life (T omer et. al, 2020).  
The global COVID-19 pandemic has only intensified residents’ 
dependence on high-speed internet access, and further 
illuminated the “digital divide” that separates high-income and 
low-income neighborhoods in America (Hegel and Wilding, 
2019). Those who don’t have reliable high-speed internet 
access can be left behind from economic opportunity. Kearns 
Metro T ownship Council, and other community stakeholders 
need to look at levels of broadband internet access within 
Kearns, identify existing gaps, and explore options that 
can narrow the “digital divide” and offer more economic 
opportunity to all Kearns residents. 
Broadband Definitions and Kearns’ Connectivity Rate
Minimum Standard Broadband Speed: a download speed of 
25 mbps (megabytes per second) and an upload speed of 3 
mbps (Zimmer, 2018). This “basic” can enable a household 
to use streaming services (such as Netflix or Y ouT ube) on one 
or two devices without lag, play most online games, and have 
minimal loading times when surfing the internet (Cooper, 
2020). Kearns has coverage for the minimum standard 
broadband speed. 
Average Broadband Speed: a download speed of 100 
mbps and an upload speed of 25 mbps. A download speeds 
of 100 mbps is needed at a minimum for 3-4 people in a 
household to stream 4K content and play online games 
simultaneously (Cooper, 2020). Kearns has coverage for 
these higher speeds as well. 
Fiber: a download speed of 1000 mbps. The advocacy 
organization Broadband Now recommends fiber speeds for 
those who want more than speeds of 100 mbps; those who 
stream 4K on multiple devices, play online video games, own 
smart home/ IoT (Internet of Things) devices, and download 
very large files (Cooper, 2020). Broadband speeds above 
the average of 100 mbps are lacking in MSD service areas, 
including Kearns.
151
The Future of Digital Infrastructure in Kearns 
The following options could possibly expand fiber-internet 
access and offer economic opportunity to more Kearns 
residents: 
• UTOPIA Fiber: UTOPIA Fiber was created by a group 
of 11 Utah cities in 2004 to build, deploy, and operate a 
fiber to the home (FTTH) network to every business and 
household within their communities. UTOPIA Fiber owns 
the infrastructure, but allows customers to choose their 
internet service provider (ISP) (West Point City, 2019a). 
UTOPIA bonds for and constructs the fiber infrastructure 
improvements. The financial obligation of the bond is 
paid by the residents that use the fiber internet service 
(West Point City, 2019b).
• Google Fiber: Google Fiber is only available in certain 
neighborhoods of Salt Lake County (Downtown, 
Sugarhouse, Rose Park, & several others) and expansion 
plans are coordinated by Google. At this time, businesses 
or government entities are unable to request Google Fiber 
service in their respective locations (Google, 2020). At the 
moment, Google Fiber is an unlikely option for improving 
Kearns’ broadband internet access.
• Work with CenturyLink to expand fiber in Kearns: 
The MSD Board could attempt to create a public-private 
partnership with CenturyLink, and work with the provider 
to expand CenturyLink fiber infrastructure to more 
neighborhoods in MSD service areas. The government 
of Springfield, MO, partnered with CenturyLink in their 
community to expand fiber internet access to residents 
(Simmons, 2019).
• Offering Wi-Fi Hotspots at Salt Lake County 
Libraries: a Wi-Fi Hotspot is a portable device that lets 
people connect electronic devices to the internet virtually 
anywhere (Salt Lake Community College Libraries, 
2020). Many libraries around the country are offering Wi-
Fi Hotspots to checkout for free. Making Wi-Fi Hotspots 
available for free checkout would especially help low-
income residents who need more reliable internet access 
(especially due to the global COVID-19 pandemic) but 
who cannot afford to increase their bandwidth. 
• “Connect Program”: in August 2020, Salt Lake City 
partnered with The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day 
Saints to provide access to a free computer lab in an LDS 
meetinghouse in the Rose Park neighborhood (Salt Lake 
City, 2020). Such a program could be possible in Kearns.
Digital Infrastructure During the Pandemic
Other widespread digital infrastructure concerns that have 
emerged during the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic and that 
should be considered in this General Plan include access to 
digital technology such as laptops and WiFi hotspots. These 
devices are considered luxury items for many households but 
have become a requirement during the pandemic in order for 
many children and adults to participate in educational and 
economic opportunities (Duffy and T appe, 2020). According 
to Esri, less than 74 percent of Kearns’ households own a 
personal computer (Esri Business Analyst, 2020).
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 
The “Digital Divide” at a Glance
Income: According to the 2013 American Community 
Survey, a household that made more than $100,000 had 
a 92% likelihood of having broadband at home. For those 
who made $25,000 or less, the chance of having home 
broadband fell to 47%.
Employment: Middle-skill jobs are those that require 
less than a bachelor’ s degree while paying at least $15 an 
hour – what academics and others often consider a living 
wage. About 46% of overall labor demand is for middle-
skill jobs, and some 82% of all middle-skill jobs are now 
“digitally intensive”. Jobs that require digital skills pay more 
and offer greater opportunity for career advancement 
than jobs without those requirements. Broadband also 
makes it possible for people to telecommute, which can 
increase job satisfaction and productivity, decrease work-
family conflict and have a positive impact on median 
household income at the census tract level.
Education: The Pew Research Center found that about 
a third of households with school-age children lacked 
home broadband in 2013. Another study showed that 
about half of students surveyed “were unable to complete 
homework due to lack of broadband and 42 percent said 
they received a lower grade due to lack of broadband as 
well.”
All data derived from Disconnected: Seven Lessons 
on Fixing the Digital Divide (2019). . . 
Kearns General Plan 152
Where do Kearns’ residents frequently eat? Resident-Desired Economic Development
Although Kearns’ households generally spend  less on 
food than the average U.S. household, they eat-out just as 
frequently or more frequently. In the last six months, 75.7% 
of the population ate at a restaurant or steak house, and 
26.2% of the population went to a restaurant four or more 
times per month – that’ s at least once a week on average (Esri 
Business Analyst – Restaurant Market Potential, 2020)! These 
are the chain restaurants and steak houses that the greatest 
percentage of residents visited in the last six months:
1. Applebee’ s (18.5%)
2. Olive Garden (16.3%)
3. IHOP (12.8%)
4. Chili’ s (12.6%)
5. Denny’ s (11.9%)
Surprisingly, none of these restaurants have locations within 
Kearns. Residents are frequently traveling to chains located 
outside of the Municipality to dine. The presence of both 
Denny’ s and IHOP on this list may suggest a shortage of sit-
down breakfast restaurants in Kearns, while strong patronage 
for Applebee’ s and Chili’ s may reflect an absence of sports bar 
and restaurant environments in the Municipality. Unfortunately, 
Esri does not provide data on locally owned restaurants, so 
we are unable to determine if Kearns residents frequent chain 
restaurants or local restaurants more often. 
Fast-food restaurants are visited more often by Kearns 
residents, with 90.6% of the population visiting at least once 
in the past six months, and 38.8% of the population visiting 
fast food or drive-in restaurants nine or more times per month 
(Esri Business Analyst – Restaurant Market Potential, 2020). 
The chain fast food restaurants and drive-ins that were most 
frequented in the last six months were: 
1. McDonald’ s (50.2%)
2. T aco Bell (31.2%)
3. Chick-fil-A (31.0%)
4. Burger King (26.8%)
5. Subway (23.0%)
All of these fast-food restaurants are located in or on the 
periphery of Kearns except for Chick-fil-A. 
Community feedback regarding economic development was 
gathered at the Community Workshop in December 2019, 
through the Land Use and T ransportation Survey (2020), a 
survey that aimed to elicit feedback from businesses located 
in the Kearns T own Center area, and via meetings with the 
General Plan Steering Committee throughout the general 
planning process. The results of the SWOT and APAE analyses 
are shown in Figures 4-13 and 4-14.
Participants in the public engagement process identified 
several strengths and opportunities regarding economic 
development in Kearns. The abundance of recreational 
amenities and community events were viewed as a huge 
asset to the Municipality. These places and activities can be 
further leveraged to promote enhanced opportunities for 
employment, revenue-generation, and community well-being. 
Residents also expressed support for their existing businesses 
and recognized the value of their location within the valley, 
which offers access to many markets and employment 
opportunities. The opportunities identified by participants 
focused on expanding local recreational and retail offerings, 
including adding a Farmer’ s market, indoor soccer fields, and 
community gathering spaces. The community also hoped 
to invest in better telecommunications infrastructure and 
leverage the area around Camp Kearns (the Warehouse 
District), intending for these actions to attract and support 
diverse businesses. 
Community members identified several weaknesses that 
could impact economic development opportunities in Kearns. 
Key among these was the community’ s weak broadband 
infrastructure and a perceived lack of choices and slow 
speeds (Figure 4-13). Dilapidated commercial areas and the 
overall image/reputation of the Municipality were also seen as 
weaknesses. Residents expressed that there were businesses 
they felt were missing from Kearns, namely warehouse clubs 
(such as Costco or Sam’ s Club) and dining options. Residents 
were aware of internal and external factors that may threaten 
the economic development of their community. Again, the 
quality of broadband infrastructure was perceived as a threat, 
as was the lack of infrastructure to support desired businesses 
in the Camp Kearns area (referred to in this plan as the 
Warehouse District character area). Participants in the public 
engagement process also identified trends toward online 
shopping (including Amazon) as a threat to local businesses. 
153
Economic development strategies must continue to look 
forward and anticipate possible market changes in order to 
prepare Kearns to compete in an ever-changing economic 
environment.
The APAE analysis (Figure 4-14) repeats many of the themes 
revealed in the SWOT analysis. Kearns residents hope to 
preserve the community’ s many events, recreational amenities, 
the library and existing businesses. In preserving these entities, 
participants expressed a desire that Kearns’ small-town feel, 
history, and identity be promoted and maintained. Residents 
wished to eliminate unemployment in their community, as well 
as the litter, clutter, and junk accumulation that may lead to a 
negative image of Kearns. Participants in the APAE analysis 
also identified excessive taxes and wasteful spending as things 
that needed to be eliminated, showing interest in increased 
government transparency and fiscal responsibility.
In the future, residents hope to achieve redevelopment 
of dilapidated commercial areas. They also desire better 
broadband infrastructure. Kearns welcome (gateway) signs, 
a historical museum, racquetball courts, and movie theaters, 
dining, and specialty shops were all identified as desirable 
amenities that could help bring activity to Kearns while 
promoting the community’ s unique identity and improving 
overall image. Participants expressed a strong desire to 
avoid economic activities that would worsen quality of life in 
Kearns, particularly citing adult-oriented businesses and uses 
with negative impacts on air quality. Consistent with items in 
other categories, Kearns residents hope to avoid vacant and 
abandoned buildings as well as high property taxes.
Figure 4-13: SWOT Analysis Items Pertaining to 
Economic Development
Figure 4-14: APAE Analysis Items Pertaining to 
Economic Development
Source: Feedback from Community Workshop, December 2019.
Figure 4-12: Existing commercial area at Kearns Corner. (Photo credit: 
Google Maps Street View, 2019).
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 
Kearns General Plan 154
Land  Use and T ransportation  Survey – 
Economic  Development  Considerations
Figure 4-15 shows the percentage of Kearns’ respondents to 
the Land Use and T ransportation Survey (2020) that identified 
an economic development-related item as ‘important’ or ‘very 
important’ to the future development of their community. It is 
critical that Kearns’ economic development strategies balance 
the many goals of residents; quality of life (including health, 
safety, and well-being) must not be compromised in the 
pursuit of job expansion or increased sales taxes. Clean air was 
identified as important to 100% of survey respondents, while 
digital infrastructure closely followed with 96% of respondents 
finding it important to future development. These results closely 
correlate with the SWOT and APAE analyses, both of which 
placed value on clean air and quality telecommunications 
infrastructure.
Survey respondents recognized the importance of economic 
development to the future of their community: 94% identified 
access to economic and educational opportunities as 
‘important’ or ‘very important’ (Figure 4-15). Respondents 
Figure 4-15: Land Use and Transportation Survey Results – Economic Development Considerations
Source: MSD Land Use and T ransportation Survey Results (Kearns), 2020.
also recognized the need to integrate economic development 
opportunities with land use, transportation, and housing 
decisions (93%). The survey results indicate that many facets 
of economic development should be considered in this plan, 
including: sustainability and energy efficiency of uses, the 
diversity of businesses, walkability (including walkability of 
commercial areas), parking, aesthetics, and the ability of 
economic development opportunities to promote the culture 
and history of Kearns.
Public feedback makes it clear that Kearns’ residents have 
high hopes for the economic development of their community. 
Residents will not settle for economic opportunities that fail to 
simultaneously improve quality of life. Job creation, revenue 
generation, and upward mobility are important goals that 
must be balanced alongside broader community goals of 
sustainability, cultural and historic preservation, connectivity, 
and enhanced aesthetics and image.
155
Kearns  T own  Center  Master  Plan  Existing  
Business  Survey  Results
The Kearns T own Center Master Plan Existing Business Survey 
was conducted for current business owners in and around 
the proposed Kearns T own Center redevelopment area. The 
purpose of this survey was to better understand business 
owners’ perspectives on the proposed redevelopment, as well 
as the unique challenges and opportunities they face while 
conducting business in Kearns. The survey was administered 
in August 2020, and respondents could complete the survey 
by e-mail, physical mail, or in-person when members of the 
MSD conducted field surveys. There were 9 business owners 
that responded to the survey out of 35 that were reached. Key 
survey results and conclusions that can be gleaned include: 
What are the benefits of conducting business in Kearns? 
Survey respondents cited the low cost of real estate, a strong 
local customer base, low sales tax, quality of life, location 
within the region, and ability to work close to family and friends 
as the greatest benefits for their businesses. 
What are the challenges of conducting business in 
Kearns? Permit and license fees, lack of business social 
networks, confusing government regulations, and unavailable/
unsuited real estate for their needs were the greatest challenges 
identified by respondents.
Do business owners in the Kearns T own Center belong 
to professional organizations (i.e. chambers of 
commerce, etc.)?  None of the survey respondents reported 
belonging to a Chamber of Commerce. Their reasons include 
the cost and not seeing the benefit of membership, that they 
used to belong to a chamber but do not anymore, and that 
they do not know how to go about joining a local chamber. 
Where do business owners go to receive information 
about business licenses, building permits, and other 
Kearns’ regulations?  Most businesses go to the Kearns’ 
Metro T ownship website, the MSD website, or reach out to 
friends/family/other business owners for regulatory information. 
Where do businesses advertise their products/services? 
Businesses mainly use word-of-mouth or Facebook to advertise 
their products/services.
The Kearns T own Center Master Plan Existing Business Survey 
results revealed several themes of how to support our current 
business owners:
1. Clear Communication of Regulations and 
Policies. Businesses see permit/license fees, confusing 
regulations, and a lack of business training/support 
programs as their most significant challenges. As 
Kearns businesses access this information through the 
Kearns’ Metro T ownship and MSD websites, regulatory 
and business assistance information must be presented 
clearly and simply on their websites. The Municipality 
and MSD should also conduct more robust outreach 
to inform businesses about regulatory changes and 
business assistance programs in regular intervals.
2. Encourage Participation in Local Chambers of 
Commerce. None of the survey respondents belong to 
a local Chamber of Commerce, and the lack of business 
training/support programs was cited as a common 
challenge. The Municipality should seek to strengthen 
the relationship between local businesses and local 
Chambers of Commerce and provide more support 
programs. Specifically, half of survey respondents said 
that a loan/grant program for renovations and building 
expansions would be helpful for their business. T ownship 
and MSD leaders could also create a business council 
to support smaller or newer businesses that cannot 
afford a membership to a Chamber of Commerce.
3. T argeted Outreach Efforts. Results regarding 
businesses’ concerns about the Kearns T own Center 
Master Plan were mixed. T wo respondents did not 
support it, and half of respondents believed that the 
T own Center redevelopment would have an unknown 
or negative effect on their business. Similarly, most 
respondents said they felt neutral, uncertain, or worried 
about future economic opportunities in Kearns. 
T ownship leaders need to recognize businesses’ fear 
and apprehension about the redevelopment. The 
Municipality can ease business fear by conducting 
more outreach and increasing inclusion of businesses in 
the visioning process.
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 

Kearns General Plan 156
What is Place-Based Economic 
Development?
Big Takeaways: Local Opportunities, Advantages, 
and Challenges
Place-based economic development is the practice of 
using a place’ s existing amenities to further economic 
goals. In other words, a place-based economic 
development strategy would focus on the qualities of 
a community that are already unique and consider 
how to strengthen and advance those qualities to 
draw customers, support business growth, and create 
a financially sustainable future. Of course, investing in 
community assets also serves to improve quality of life for 
residents. Several examples of place-based economies 
already exist.
Example - Fargo, ND:  Fargo, ND has been described 
as a “Silicon Valley for Drones”, but it hasn’t always been 
that way. As community leaders were looking to bring 
critical investment and development to Fargo, they took 
a hard look at their assets:
1. Few people and lots of open space.
2. World class Aviation Institute an hour 
away in Grand Forks.
3. Nearby government aviation test site.
4. Entrepreneurs interested in technology.
Realizing that all of these assets were conducive to 
supporting the growing technology of drones, community 
leaders sought to make their location the hub for all 
matters related to the drone industry. Their efforts started 
small, with a conference to bring technology leaders 
together. The first conference had only 140 attendants; 
now, annual drone conferences bring as many as 600+ 
people to Fargo. The gathering of these diverse minds 
has fostered the growth of drone and aviation businesses 
and technology in the now widely recognized capital of 
the drone industry. For more on economic development 
efforts in Fargo, view this short video.
Economic opportunities and local advantages in Kearns far 
outweigh the challenges. The diverse population is one of the 
Municipality’ s greatest strengths, as it helps to create a distinct 
market while also encouraging unique businesses and cultural 
events. Kearns households may not spend as much on goods 
as the average U.S. household, but the population is growing, 
and incomes are rising. Spending power may also increase as 
Kearns’ young population ages (assuming that residents can 
be retained as they grow older). 
Educational attainment in Kearns is low and unemployment is 
high (partially a result of the COVID-19 pandemic). However, 
the industries that employ the most Kearns residents (including 
services, manufacturing, retail, construction, and finance) are 
also the industry classifications that most businesses located 
in Kearns belong to. This means that opportunities exist 
to link education and technical training programs to local 
employers, simultaneously creating employment opportunities 
and enhancing air quality (as less of the population would 
have to commute out of Kearns for work). Such efforts could 
benefit household wealth, if Kearns’ internal transportation 
network was such that the household could then eliminate 
ownership of one or more cars. The Municipality benefits 
from its location within the valley, including its proximity to 
Bangerter Highway which connects the community to regional 
markets and employment centers. Investment in broadband 
infrastructure as well as in the physical infrastructure of existing 
business clusters (like the Warehouse District) could help the 
Municipality to further compete in the regional economy.
Finally, Kearns benefits from the presence of many unique, 
small businesses that contribute to the community’ s identity. 
Existing businesses can be supported while encouraging 
the formation of new businesses through education and 
marketing programs, investment in active transportation, and 
rehabilitation of existing buildings and streetscapes. 
Future Economic Development Opportunities: Where 
Does the Data Align?
This economic development element focuses on finding the 
key areas where data on existing conditions, regional trends, 
and community interests and needs align. The areas where 
alignment occurs represent the strongest opportunities for 
future economic development in Kearns. This section is 
broken into five main categories: Retail and the Kearns T own 
Center; Industrial and the Warehouse District Character Area 
157
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 
Retail and the Kearns T own Center: This area includes the 
majority of the businesses in Kearns (e.g. retail/services). Kearns’ 
households tend to spend money on family entertainment, 
and a substantial portion of the leakage for the Municipality 
is associated with clothing, eateries, and entertainment. This 
means that there is a demand for additional retail space and 
uses that can accommodate family-oriented entertainment 
opportunities. The T own Center provides a space where these 
uses can be concentrated, with access to regional markets and 
a foundation of successful small businesses to build upon. 
Industrial and the Warehouse District: This area 
(sometimes called Camp Kearns) in the northwest corner of 
Kearns, off the corner of 5600 W and 4700 S, is home to 
many industrial/manufacturing businesses and has incredible 
potential to grow and fulfill regional demand for industrial flex 
space. This area also resides at a pivotal location: a 20-minute 
drive to Salt Lake City International Airport, close to two major 
interstates (I-15 and I-80), which provide access to much of the 
western United States, and close to other regional highways 
such as Mountain View Corridor (which will be completed 
by 2021) and Bangerter Highway. The area is also located 
between the proposed Inland Port and Silicon Slopes, which 
could further its economic potential.
The Warehouse District is located within an Opportunity 
Zone, which creates avenues to spur development and 
economic growth in areas determined by the US census as 
“low-income communities.” Designated Opportunity Zones 
incentivize private sector investments in housing and economic 
development by providing tax incentives for developers. The 
fact that the District lays in an Opportunity Zone opens up 
a significant opportunity for further economic development, 
investment, and high-quality employment opportunities. 
Recreation Hub: The Utah Olympic Oval is a world-class 
sporting facility that hosted speedskating events during the 
2002 Winter Olympics. T oday, it continues to host the U.S. 
Speedskating T eam, draw people from all over the nation for 
sporting events, and provide quality recreational amenities for 
community residents. The area around the Olympic Oval also 
has a community fitness center, water park, baseball fields, and 
skate park. It is a huge attraction, but there are few amenities 
to keep people on-site after an event or recreational activity 
is over, meaning visitors rarely spend their money locally. 
Expanding uses in the Recreational Hub area could help 
capture recreation and tourism revenue. These uses should 
be small-scale, and could include temporary or seasonal 
operations. Moreover, potential accessory uses should further 
take hold of the opportunity to capture leaking sales in family 
entertainment and restaurants and food services.
T raining, Education, and Infrastructure Support: 
Kearns has low educational attainment compared to the 
County, and many residents are employed in low-paying 
industries (retail/services). T raining programs can be utilized to 
help students, business owners, and employees gain technical 
skills to help advance their careers. Many programs currently 
exist, with Career and T echnical Education (CTE) being the 
most common. However, local, personalized solutions could 
be equally beneficial. Kearns should also work to improve its 
broadband Internet infrastructure. Residents are increasingly 
reliant on high-speed Internet access as commerce, education, 
and employment move into digital realms. The Kearns Metro 
T ownship Council should explore options to improve high-
speed Internet infrastructure throughout Kearns, and narrow 
the “digital divide” by helping low-income residents gain quality 
and affordable Internet access.
Culture and Identity: In the SWOT/ APAE analyses and the 
Land Use and T ransportation Survey, history was among the 
items Kearns residents identified as most important and in 
most need of being preserved; but there is a general lack of 
historical markers, museums, or any sort of tribute to Kearns’ 
rich history. The Camp Kearns area served as an Army Air 
Force training base during World War II, operating from 1942 
to 1946. The residential areas around Camp Kearns represent 
some of the earliest forms of G.I. bill housing. And Kearns hosts 
a strong Olympic Legacy, being the site of the Olympic Ice 
Oval on which the greatest quantity of world records has been 
set. This history should be celebrated and used to promote the 
identity and uniqueness of Kearns. Such promotion could have 
economic benefits attached to it, especially if tributes to history 
and identity serve to draw in customers who spend money at 
local businesses. 
The community established four economic 
development gaols:
1. Promote a diverse business mix in Kearns.
2. Strengthen Kearns’ commercial areas.
3. Enhance and expand access to digital infrastructure.
4. Create an equitable and supportive business 
environment.
(Camp Kearns); Recreation Hub; T raining, Education, and 
Infrastructure Support; and Culture and Identity.
Kearns General Plan 158
Community Work Program
*The Kearns Metro T ownship Council is the governing body for Kearns and will determine how best to achieve all of the goals, objectives, 
and actions included in the work plan laid out in the following tables. However, key parties who could be designated to progress various 
actions have also been identified (‘responsible parties’) in order to support efficient implementation where possible.
159
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 
Explore opportunities 
to create a Community 
Reinvestment Agency (CRA) 
or Redevelopment Agency for 
Kearns, with special focus on 
the Kearns Town Center and 
Warehouse District Character 
Areas.
Kearns General Plan 160
 161
Chapter 4 - Economic Development 
APPENDIX
What’ s Included in this Appendix?
The Appendix contains materials that provide important 
context to the Kearns General Plan. Contents are as follows:
1. Glossary
2. Resources
3. COVID-19 Response List
4. Esri Reports
5. Kearns T echnical Assessment
6. Kearns Public Outreach and 
Participation Report
7. MSD T ransportation Planning Principles 
Workshop Report
8. MSD Land Use and T ransportation 
Survey Results
9. Kearns T own Center Existing Businesses 
Survey Results
10. Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan
11. Kearns T own Center Plan and 
Appendices
12. Kearns Master T ransportation Plan
Glossary
• AADT: Annual Average Daily T raffic represents the 
total annual vehicular traffic on a road divided by 365 
(the number of days in a year). Throughout this plan, 
AADT measurements come from UDOT’ s 2016 data.
• ADA: Americans with Disabilities Act (1990). Offers 
critical protections for persons with disabilities. ADA 
legislation also has implications for public right-of-way 
design, including sidewalk width, curb ramps, signals, 
and maintenance. All new construction and major 
renovations or alterations are required to comply with 
ADA standards.
• APAE Analysis: the act of building consensus on 
items that a group or community would like to ‘ Achieve, 
Preserve, Avoid, or Eliminate’. The APAE Analysis 
for Kearns was conducted at a public workshop in 
December of 2019.
• Character Area: character areas are defined as 
specific geographic areas that have unique or special 
characteristics, have potential to evolve into a unique 
area when provided specific guidance, or require 
attention suitable to its uniqueness. Each character 
area has its own set of zoning considerations. There 
are 18 total character areas in Kearns, broken into 
three categories: 1) core character areas, 2) residential 
character areas, and 3) supplementary character areas.
• Community Work Program: the community work 
program describes Kearns’ strategy for reaching its 
future vision. A separate work program is included for 
each topical element of the General Plan (land use, 
transportation, economic development). The work 
program includes goals, objectives, and actions, with 
action items including detailed descriptions of who the 
Council could delegate responsibilities to, what the 
expected timeframe for completion is, estimated costs, 
metrics for measuring success, and resources and case 
studies.
• Density: simply put, density is the number of units in a 
given land area. In this Plan, we focus on net density of 
residential units. For example, how many dwelling units 
are there per acre of land used for residential purposes? 
Higher density development can support more services 
such as commercial space and transit. However, 
higher densities may have other impacts, such as 
creating traffic congestion and noise. While low density 
development may lead to quieter residential streets and 
larger yards, it can make it difficult for municipalities 
to provide services and results in land resources being 
used up faster.
• Esri T apestry Groups: “T apestry segmentation 
provides an accurate, detailed description of America's 
neighborhoods—U.S. residential areas are divided into 
67 distinctive segments based on their socioeconomic 
and demographic composition” (Esri, 2020). . . read 
more here. Planners use tapestries to understand 
demographics and spending patterns of subsets of 
a community population. Kearns has three primary 
tapestry groups: 1) American Dreamers, 2) Up and 
Coming Families, and 3) Home Improvement. These 
terms, as well of the characteristics of each group, come 
directly from Esri and may not represent how those 
groups see or refer to themselves. Data on tapestries in 
Kearns is included later on in this Appendix for reference.
• Floor Area Ratio: a measurement representing the 
floor area of a building in relation to the area of the 
site that the building occupies. It can be expressed as 
a ratio or a decimal number. Click on this link for more 
information.
• General Plan Steering Committee:  the Kearns 
General Plan Steering Committee (GPSC) was a group 
of volunteers, appointed by the Mayor, to work closely 
with staff during the general planning process. The 
GPSC was composed of ten individuals – all of whom 
also serve on the Kearns Metro T ownship Planning 
Commission. The GPSC met twenty times during the 
general planning process, and meetings were open to 
the public.
• Industrial Flex Space: industrial flex space is a type of 
commercial real estate that can accommodate multiple 
uses associated with industrial businesses. This type 
of building can be easily arranged to host an office, a 
warehouse, a light industrial or manufacturing use, or 
all three simultaneously. Industrial flex space is typically 
one story in height, and usually at least 25% of the 
building is dedicated to office space, leading to greater 
parking demand than a typical warehouse building. 
Industrial flex space is increasing in demand in Northern 
Utah, especially as it is favored by telecommunication 
companies like those seeking to make Silicon Slopes 
home.
• Land Use: land use is a characterization of land based 
on the types of uses that are occurring there. Land use 
differs from zoning, which describes what is allowed on 
a site by code. Zoning and land use may not always 
match. For example, a re-zone of a subdivision may have 
changed the permitted uses on the land from residential 
to commercial. The primary land use in that area will 
still be residential. But if someone tries to develop in that 
area in the future, they will have to build commercial 
property in compliance with the zoning code.
• Leakage: leakage occurs when money is leaving an 
economy. That is, residents of a certain area are taking 
their income and spending it on goods in a different 
area. This usually occurs when there is a shortage of 
retail goods or services available in a certain market.
• Location Quotient: Measures the concentration of an 
industry sector in the local geography compared to a 
larger reference geography. LQ < 1 = local concentration 
is smaller than in the reference geography; LQ 1 = local 
concentration is same as in the reference geography; LQ 
> 1 = local concentration exceeds that of the reference 
geography.
• Kearns Community Council: the Kearns Community 
Council (Kearns CC) is a non-profit group consisting of 
publicly elected members who help organize community 
events, connect residents with resources, and inform 
community members of major happenings.
• Kearns Master T ransportation Plan: the Kearns 
Master T ransportation Plan (MTP) was prepared for 
Kearns by Avenue Consultants, under the direction of 
Salt Lake County Engineering and the Kearns Metro 
T ownship Council. The plan included data collected 
and community input and was published in early 
summer of 2020. The MTP lays out a plan for priority 
transportation projects moving forward. The entire plan 
is included later on in this Appendix.
• Kearns Metro T ownship Council: the Kearns Metro 
T ownship Council (Kearns MTC) is the governing body 
of Kearns. There are five members of the Council, 
including the Mayor. The MTC acts as the legislative 
authority for Kearns.
• Kearns Metro T ownship Planning Commission: the 
Kearns Metro T ownship Planning Commission (Kearns 
PC) is responsible for providing recommendations to 
the Kearns MTC regarding the general plan, land use 
regulations, and various application processes. The 
Kearns PC has ten members, appointed by the Council.
• Kearns T own Center Master Plan: the Kearns T own 
Center Master Plan was created by GSBS Consulting, 
under the direction of Salt Lake County and the MSD. 
This plan creates a vision for the development of a 
Kearns T own Center at the intersection of 5400 S and 
4015 W. The plan has significant community buy-in, 
and was referenced throughout this General Plan, 
particularly in relation to the Kearns T own Center 
Character Area (Land Use Chapter). The full Kearns 
T own Center Master Plan is included later on in this 
Appendix.
• Major T ransit Investment Corridor: According to 
Utah Code, “‘Major transit investment corridor’ means 
public transit service that uses or occupies:
1. Public transit rail right-of-way;
2. Dedicated road right-of-way for the use of public 
transit, such as bus rapid transit; or
3. Fixed-route bus corridors subject to an interlocal 
agreement or contract between a municipality or 
county and:
• a public transit district as defined in Section 17B-
2a-802; or
• an eligible political subdivision as defined in Section 
59-12-2219.
• Manufactured Home: a home constructed off-site on 
or after June 15, 1976, that meets HUD’ s modern safety 
and quality requirements, and has been moved to a 
permanent location.
• Metro T ownships: there are five Metro T ownships in 
Salt Lake County, Kearns being one of them. These 
Metro T ownships are independent municipalities with 
their own elected government (Mayor and Council). 
The Metro T ownships fund the MSD, which provides 
each of the Metro T ownships with services, including 
planning and development. Metro T ownships have 
discretion over spending of sales tax revenue, but not 
property tax revenue.
• Mixed-Use: mixed-use development describes 
development that combines two or more use categories 
(residential, commercial, industrial, civic/institution). 
The mixing of uses can occur vertically (different uses 
on different floors of the same building) or horizontally 
(different uses on the same property or block). Mixed 
use development generally leads to a more walkable 
built environment.
• Mobile Home: manufactured home built prior to June 
15, 1976. 
• MSD: the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District 
(MSD) was established in 2015 by the Salt Lake County 
Council. It provides services, such as planning and 
development, to its member communities, including 
the five Metro T ownships, the T own of Brighton, and 
unincorporated areas of Salt Lake County. The MSD 
helps to identify the needs of its member communities 
and uses funding to help support those needs.
• Moderate Income Housing: according to Utah 
Code, “housing occupied or reserved for occupancy 
by households with a gross household income equal 
to or less than 80% of the median gross income for 
households of the same size in the county in which the 
city is located.”
• Opportunity Zone: (also referred to as a Qualified 
Opportunity Zone, QOZ) an opportunity zone is 
“an economically distressed community where new 
investments, under certain conditions, may be eligible 
for preferential tax treatment.  Localities qualify as 
QOZs if they have been nominated for that designation 
by a state, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory 
and that nomination has been certified by the Secretary 
of the U.S. T reasury via his delegation of authority to 
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)”(IRS, 2020). Read 
more here.
• Safe Routes to School: Safe Routes to School (SRTS) 
is a program that encourages students to walk and 
bike to school, through infrastructure improvements, 
safety education, incentives, increased enforcement 
and other means. These programs can be carried out 
by a department of transportation (such as UDOT), a 
metropolitan planning organization (such as WFRC), 
a local government (such as Kearns), a school district 
(such as Granite Schools), or a school (such as Beehive 
Elementary).
• Shift Share: an economic measure that reveals how 
much of industry growth in an area can be attributed 
to regional trends and how much can be attributed to 
local advantages (broken into national growth effect, 
industrial mix effect, and regional competitive effect). 
For information on how shift share is calculated, visit 
this site.
• Surplus: surplus simply represents an economic state 
where supply for a good or service in an area exceeds 
demand. In the leakage and surplus analysis in the 
Economic Development Chapter, surplus for a retail 
good or service indicates that the sector is drawing in 
sales from outside of the trade area (outside of the three 
zip codes analyzed for Kearns). 
• SWOT Analysis: the act of building consensus on items 
that a group or community perceives as ‘Strengths, 
Weaknesses, Opportunities, or Threats’. The SWOT 
Analysis for Kearns was conducted at a public workshop 
in December of 2019.
• T otal Market Value: (as used in the Land Use Chapter) 
represents Salt Lake County’ s 2018 total assessed value 
of the property (land and building). Assessed value is 
not the same as market value (i.e. what a home would 
sell for).
• UDOT: the Utah Department of T ransportation. 
UDOT has authority over state roads, of which there 
are two in Kearns - 5400 S and 5600 W – and two 
directly adjacent to Kearns – Mountain View Corridor 
and Bangerter Highway. UDOT also works closely with 
counties and municipalities on large projects related to 
transit or active transportation.
• UTA: the Utah T ransit Authority. UTA provides transit, 
including bus, TRAX line, Front Runner, and on-demand 
services to the Wasatch Region.
• Utah Code 10-9a: (also known as LUDMA – Municipal 
Land Use, Development, and Management Act) Utah 
Code 10-9a defines a municipality’ s ability to create 
and enact land use regulations. LUDMA is also the 
legislation that authorizes Kearns Metro T ownship to be 
able to craft and adopt this General Plan.
• WFRC: Wasatch Front Regional Council. WFRC is the 
metropolitan planning organization (MPO) for Box 
Elder, Davis, Morgan, Salt Lake, T ooele, and Weber 
counties. They provide a Regional T ransportation 
Plan (RTP, every four years) and T ransportation 
Improvement Plan (TIP, annually). WFRC also oversees 
other planning initiatives, provides guidance to 
municipalities, and administers funding through various 
grant programs.
• Zoning: zoning is a tool used by municipalities to govern 
how land can be used, how large buildings can be, and 
how buildings relate to one another. A municipality’ s 
authority to enact a zoning ordinance is related to the 
police power: the responsibility to protect the health, 
safety, and welfare of the public. 
Resources
• AARP. (n.d.). What is a Livable Community? AARP. Re-
trieved September 11, 2020, from http://www.aarp.org/liv-
able-communities/about/info-2014/what-is-a-livable-com-
munity.html 
• American Planning Association. (n.d.). Planning and Com-
munity Health Center: Plan4Health. American Planning 
Association. Retrieved September 11, 2020, from https://
www.planning.org/nationalcenters/health/psecoalitions/ 
• Building Communities. (2017). Getting Economic Devel-
opment and Land-use Planning to Work T ogether. https://
www.buildingcommunities.us/getting-economic-develop-
ment-and-land-use-planning-to-work-together.html 
• Building Salt Lake. (2020). Jordan Landing—Building Salt 
Lake. https://www.buildingsaltlake.com/expert-makes-the-
case-for-changing-how-cities-provide-parking/jordan-land-
ing/ 
• Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. (n.d.). 100s Base 
Zones. The City of Portland Oregon. Retrieved September 11, 
2020, from https://www.portlandoregon.gov/bps/34560 
• Casey, B. (2015, December 14). It Isn’t Cheaper T o Live In 
The Suburbs. Money After Graduation. https://moneyafter-
graduation.com/it-isnt-cheaper-to-live-in-the-suburbs/ 
• City of Farmington Utah. (2005). Chapter 20: Neighbor-
hood Mixed Use (NMU) Zone. http://www.farmington.utah.
gov/downloads/community_development/chapter20nmu.pdf 
• City of Kalamazoo Michigan Zoning Ordinance § 3.1 The 
Districts (Retrieved September 11, 2020, from https://
ecode360.com/33036665) 
• City of Kalamazoo Michigan Zoning Ordinance § A-2.3 C, 
Commercial Districts (Retrieved September 11, 2020, from 
https://ecode360.com/33036531) 
• City of Los Angeles, Department of City Planning. (2014, 
January 21). Zoning 101: T ypes of Zoning Codes. Plan 
Re:Code. https://recode.la/updates/news/types-zoning-
codes 
• City of St. George. (n.d.). St. George: T own Square. Re-
trieved September 11, 2020, from https://www.sgcity.org/
cityparks/townsquare 
• Community T ool Box. (n.d.). Section 5. Developing an Action 
Plan. Community T ool Box. Retrieved September 11, 2020, 
from https://ctb.ku.edu/en/table-of-contents/structure/stra-
tegic-planning/develop-action-plans/main 
• Cooper, T. (2020, June 3). How Much Internet Speed Do I 
Need? BroadbandNow. https://broadbandnow.com/guides/
how-much-internet-speed-do-i-need 
• Deseret News. (2008, July 20). Camp Kearns: Documents 
offer new glimpse into life at dismantled WWII base. Deseret 
News. https://www.deseret.com/2008/7 /20/20264931/
camp-kearns-documents-offer-new-glimpse-into-life-at-dis-
mantled-wwii-base 
• Deseret News. (2008, July 20). Woman creating virtual mu-
seum for Camp Kearns. Deseret News. https://www.deseret.
com/2008/7 /20/20264887 /woman-creating-virtual-muse-
um-for-camp-kearns 
• Duane Bryers. (n.d.). Artnet. Retrieved September 11, 2020, 
from http://www.artnet.com/artists/duane-bryers/ 
• Duffy, C., & T appe, A. (2020, May 17). America’ s surprising 
breeding ground for inequality: The internet. CNN. https://
www.cnn.com/2020/05/17 /economy/internet-access-univer-
sal-wifi/index.html
• Federal Highway Administration. (2000). Road Function 
Classifications [Factsheet]. US Department of T ransporta-
tion. https://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/speedmgt/data_facts/docs/
rd_func_class_1_42.pdf 
• Geeting, J. (2016, March 1). The federal rule holding back 
neighborhood-scale mixed-use buildings. WHYY . https://
whyy.org/articles/the-federal-rule-holding-back-neighbor-
hood-scale-mixed-use-buildings/ 
• Google. (2020). Google Fiber. Google Fiber. https://fiber.
google.com/cities/saltlakecity/
• GSBS Consulting. (2019). Kearns T own Center Master Plan. 
Kearns Metro T ownship. https://msd-planning-slco.hub.
arcgis.com/pages/white-city-long-range-planning 
• Hamm, T. (2020, August 24). A Look at the Average Amer-
ican Budget—And How the Average American Can Start 
Saving More. The Simple Dollar. https://www.thesimpledol-
lar.com/banking/blog/a-look-at-the-average-american-bud-
get-and-how-the-average-american-can-start-saving-more/ 
• Harmons Grocery. (n.d.). Harmons Seventh Street. 
Harmons Grocery. Retrieved September 11, 2020, from 
https://estore.harmonsgrocery.com/webdev.nsf/7dd-
efd36fd5cc1d187256d5100788744/2215fe63cc2c2e7f-
87256d5100797aed?OpenDocument 
• Healthy Salt Lake. (2020). Healthy Salt Lake: Community 
Profiles. Healthy Salt Lake. http://www.healthysaltlake.org/
index.php?module=indicators&controller=index&action=-
dashboard&id=83017286729333906&card=0&loca-
leId=134095 
• Hegel, J., & Wilding, J. (2019). Disconnected: Seven Lessons 
on Fixing the Digital Divide. Community Affairs Department 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. https://www.
kansascityfed.org/community/~/media/31dc7512db164fce-
8ae79ec7709924fd.ashx
• Holladay Village Zoning Ordinance § 13.71 Holladay Village 
Zone (Retrieved September 11, 2020, from https://www.
sterlingcodifiers.com/codebook/getBookData.php?chap-
ter_id=80135) 
• Kamal, M. A. (2011). Development vs growth [Educa-
tion]. https://www.slideshare.net/farha451288/develop-
ment-vs-growth-l9 
• Kearns Metro T ownship. (2019). Kearns Master T ransporta-
tion Plan 2019. Kearns Metro T ownship. https://msd-plan-
ning-slco.hub.arcgis.com/pages/kearns-long-range-plan-
ning 
• Kelly, N., Sheridan, C., & Woods, K. (2017). Hous-
ing + T ransport: What’ s the real cost of moving further 
from an urban centre? http://npf.ie/wp-content/up-
loads/2017 /09/0380-KellyGreenUrban-KSWUrban-Design.
compressed.pdf 
• Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. (2016). Salt Lake Inland 
Port Market Assessment. Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. 
https://gardner.utah.edu/wp-content/uploads/2016/10/IP-
Brief-PRESS2.pdf 
• Lake Park Corporate Centre. (n.d.). Overview. Lake Park 
Corporate Centre. Retrieved September 11, 2020, from 
http://properties.cbre.us/lake-park-corporate-center/ 
• MHVillage. (n.d.). Shadow Ridge Mobile Home Park in 
Kearns, UT. MHVillage. Retrieved September 11, 2020, from 
https://www.mhvillage.com/parks/25611 
• Missing Middle Housing. (n.d.). Missing Middle Housing: 
Diverse choices for walkable neighborhood living. Missing 
Middle Housing. Retrieved September 11, 2020, from https://
missingmiddlehousing.com/ 
• National Association of City T ransportation Officials. (2017). 
Designing for All Ages & Abilities: Contextual Guidance 
for High-Comfort Bicycle Facilities. National Association of 
City T ransportation Officials (NACTO). https://nacto.org/
wp-content/uploads/2017 /12/NACTO_Designing-for-All-Ag-
es-Abilities.pdf 
• New Orleans Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance § Article 7: 
Open Space Districts (Retrieved September 11, 2020, from 
https://czo.nola.gov/article-7 /) 
• Norlem, C., & Jarman, L. (n.d.). Public Rights-of-Way Ac-
cessibility [T raining Presentation]. Salt Lake City Community 
and Neighborhoods.
• O’Donnell, E. (2006). Interconnectivity: A Review of the 
Current Status and Steps Necessary T o Increase the Level 
of Interconnectivity of Future Development in Delaware. 
Delaware Center for T ransportation, University of Delaware. 
https://cpb-us-w2.wpmucdn.com/sites.udel.edu/dist/1/1139/
files/2013/10/Rpt.-170-Interconnectivity.final-1tuclxj.pdf 
• Old T own Commercial Association. (n.d.). Old T own Lan-
sing. Old T own Lansing. Retrieved September 11, 2020, from 
http://iloveoldtown.org/ 
• Pace, L. (2019). Industry Snapshot-Utah’ s T ech Industry 
(Snapshot Series). Kem C. Gardner Policy INstitute. https://
gardner.utah.edu/wp-content/uploads/T ech-Industry-Snap-
shot-Feb-2019.pdf
• Perris California Code of Ordinances Title 19 Zoning § 
Chapter 19.86 SENIOR HOUSING OVERLA Y ZONE 
(SHO) (Retrieved September 11, 2020, from https://library.
municode.com/CA/perris/codes/code_of_ordinances?no-
deId=COOR_TIT19ZO_CH19.86SEHOOVZOSH) 
• Planning & Zoning Department. (2016). City of Austin: 
Guide to Zoning. City of Austin. https://www.austintexas.
gov/sites/default/files/files/Planning/zoning_guide.pdf 
• Raymond, A., & McKellar, K. (2019, August 14). Utah Inland 
Port meeting shut down as protesters again disrupt meeting. 
https://www.deseret.com/utah/2019/8/14/20805759/utah-
inland-port-working-group-protestors
• Reed, D. (2018, January 19). “Move to the cheaper area” 
is good individual advice, but not a solution to our housing 
shortage. Greater Greater Washington. https://ggwash.org/
view/66156/just-move-to-x-neighborhood-is-not-an-afford-
able-housing-strategy 
• Rolling Hills Estates. (n.d.). Rolling Hills Estates Mobile 
Home Community in Layton, Utah. Rolling Hills Estates. 
Retrieved September 11, 2020, from https://rollinghillses-
tatesmhc.com/ 
• Salt Lake City. (2020, August). Pilot Program Offers Access 
T o Internet, Computers for Rose Park Residents. SLC.Gov. 
https://www.slc.gov/blog/2020/08/04/pilot-program-of-
fers-access-to-internet-computers-for-rose-park-residents/ 
• Salt Lake City Maps. (n.d.). Salt Lake City Zoning Lookup 
Map. Salt Lake City Maps. Retrieved September 11, 2020, 
from https://maps.slcgov.com/portal/apps/PublicInforma-
tion/index.html?appid=b6eaa450716843bcaa2f5b33501d-
bc45 
• Salt Lake Community College Libraries. (2020). Wi-Fi 
Hotspots FAQ. Salt Lake Community College Libraries. 
https://libweb.slcc.edu/wi-fi-hotspots-faq 
• Salt Lake County Office of Data and Innovation. (n.d.). Eco-
nomic Impact Information Portal. Salt Lake County Econom-
ic Impact Information Portal - A Story Map. Retrieved Sep-
tember 11, 2020, from https://slco.maps.arcgis.com/apps/
MapSeries/index.html?appid=c07ef403435442909c7dc-
30c0da2b718 
• Semerad, T. (2019a, February 1). After a year of big-dollar 
deals, Utah’ s Silicon Slopes urges Utah to boost computer 
science education, offers $4 million. The Salt Lake T ribune. 
https://www.sltrib.com/news/2019/02/01/after-year-big-
dollar/  
• Semerad, T. (2019b, July 31). Utah’ s tech sector accounted 
for 1 in 7 jobs in the state, bringing high wages and fast 
growth. The Salt Lake T ribune. https://www.sltrib.com/
news/2019/07 /30/utahs-tech-sector/ 
• Shoultz, J. (n.d.). Public Right-of Way Accessibility Guidelines 
(PROWAG). United States Access Board. https://www.
adainfo.org/sites/default/files/1.4-Public-Rights-of-Way-2-
slides-per-page.pdf 
• Simmons, L. (2019, August 13). Springfield City Utilities 
partnering with CenturyLink to expand high speed internet 
access. Https://Www.Ky3.Com. https://www.ky3.com/con-
tent/news/Springfield-City-Utilities-partnering-with-Centu-
ryLink-to-expand-high-speed-internet-access-540397691.
html  
• Stevens, T. (2020, January 9). Salt Lake City’ s inland port 
lawsuit thrown out by judge. Salt Lake T ribune. https://www.
sltrib.com/news/politics/2020/01/08/judge-sides-with-
state/ 
• The Food T ruck League. (n.d.). Daybreak League Night. 
NowPlayingUtah.Com. Retrieved September 11, 2020, from 
https://www.nowplayingutah.com/event/__trashed-18/ 
• T odd, P. (n.d.). The History. Kearns Historical Society. 
Retrieved September 11, 2020, from http://campkearnsutah.
weebly.com/the-history.html 
• T omer, A., Fishbane, L., Siefer, A., & Callahan, B. (2020, 
February 26). Digital prosperity: How broadband can 
deliver health and equity to all communities. The Brookings 
Institution. https://www.brookings.edu/research/digi-
tal-prosperity-how-broadband-can-deliver-health-and-equi-
ty-to-all-communities/ 
• T own of Westport Connecticut Zoning and Subdivision Reg-
ulations, §32-15A Senior Residential Community (Retrieved 
September 11, 2020, from http://online.encodeplus.com/
regs/westport-ct/doc-viewer.aspx?secid=6809#secid-6809)
• US Bureau of Labor Statistics. (n.d.). U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics. United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. Retrieved 
September 13, 2020, from https://www.bls.gov/  
• US Department of Justice. (2020). A Guide to Disability 
Rights Laws. US Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, 
Disability Rights Section. https://www.ada.gov/cguide.htm 
• US EPA. (2015). Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 
[Overviews and Factsheets]. United States Environmental 
Protection Agency. https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/
sources-greenhouse-gas-emissions 
• US EPA. (2018). Report on the Environment: Land Use 
[Reports and Assessments]. United States Environmental 
Protection Agency. https://www.epa.gov/report-environ-
ment/land-use 
• U.S. Census Bureau, Center for Economic Studies. (2010, 
Census). OnTheMap Kearns. OnTheMap. https://onthe-
map.ces.census.gov/ 
• Utah Department of T ransportation. (2020a). T raffic Statis-
tics. UDOT. https://www.udot.utah.gov/connect/business/
traffic-data/traffic-statistics/   
• Utah Department of T ransportation. (2020b). UDOT - 
Keeping Utah Moving. UDOT. https://www.udot.utah.gov/
connect/ 
• Utah Code § Section 10-9a-102 Purposes - General land 
use authority (Retrieved September 11, 2020, from https://
le.utah.gov/xcode/Title10/Chapter9A/10-9a-S102.html?v=C
10-9a-S102_2019051420190514) 
• Utah Code § Section 10-9a-103 Definitions (Re-
trieved September 11, 2020, from https://le.utah.gov/
xcode/Title10/Chapter9A/10-9a-S103.html?v=C10-9a
-S103_2020051220200512) 
• Utah Code § Section 10-9a-401 General plan required 
(Retrieved September 11, 2020, from https://le.utah.gov/
xcode/Title10/Chapter9A/10-9a-S401.html?v=C10-9a
-S401_2019051420190514) 
• Utah Code § Section 10-9a–403 General plan preparation 
(Retrieved September 11, 2020, from https://le.utah.gov/
xcode/Title10/Chapter9A/10-9a-S403.html?v=C10-9a
-S403_2020051220200512) 
• Utah Department of T ransportation. (2020a). T raffic 
Statistics. UDOT. https://www.udot.utah.gov/connect/
business/traffic-data/traffic-statistics/    
• Utah Department of T ransportation. (2020b). UDOT - 
Keeping Utah Moving. UDOT. 
• Utah Inland Port Authority. (n.d.). About the Utah 
Inland Port Authority. Retrieved September 13, 2020, 
from https://inlandportauthority.utah.gov/about-the-
utah-inland-port-authority/
• Utah T ransit Authority. (n.d.). Ride UTA Maps. Ride UTA 
Maps. Retrieved September 11, 2020, from https://rideuta.
maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=448c-
3cfe44264f1e8931073dfb6e5417 
• Utah T ransit Authority. (2020). Mission and Vision. UTA. 
https://www.rideuta.com/ About-UTA/Mission-and-Vision 
• Wasatch Front Regional Council. (n.d.). T raffic Data. 
Wasatch Front Regional Council. Retrieved September 11, 
2020, from https://wfrc.org/maps-data/traffic-data/ 
• Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2018, Decem-
ber 17). Salt Lake County Land Use Parcels. WFRC 
Open Data Content. https://data.wfrc.org/data-
sets/salt-lake-county-land-use-parcels?geome-
try=-113.214,40.486,-110.601,40.851 
• Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2019). 2019-2050 
Regional T ransportation Plan. Wasatch Front Regional 
Council. https://wfrc.org/vision-plans/regional-transporta-
tion-plan/2019-2050-regional-transportation-plan/ 
• Wasatch Front Regional Council. (2019). Wasatch Choice 
Regional Vision. Wasatch Front Regional Council. https://
wfrc.org/vision-plans/wasatch-choice-2050/  
• West Point City. (2019a). West Point City Fiber Project with 
UTOPIA Fiber—FAQ. West Point City. https://westpointcity.
org/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/FAQ-UTOPIA-Fiber-
11.2019-on-letterhead.pdf  
• West Point City. (2019b). West Point City Council Agenda. 
West Point City. https://westpointcity.org/wp-content/up-
loads/2020/01/2019-05-21-Agenda.pdf 
• Winick, B., & Jaffe, M. (2015). Planning Aging-Support-
ive Communities (No. 579; p. 100). American Planning 
Association. https://www.planning.org/publications/
report/9026902/ 
• Winters, R. (2007 , May 26). Camp Kearns remem-
bered. The Salt Lake T ribune. https://archive.sltrib.com/
article.php?id=&itype=ngpsid
• Zimmer, J. (2018, February 10). The FCC “Broadband” 
Definition Has Changed. Here is What It Means. 
Broadband Now. https://broadbandnow.com/report/
fcc-broadband-definition/ 
Local and Regional Responses to the COVID -19 Pandemic: Resource List  
 
The following is a summarized list of loan and grant programs that are/were available to help Utah businesses 
through the COVID-19 pandemic. For a more comprehensive look into pandemic funding for businesses, please visit 
https://coronavirus.utah.gov/business/business-loans-and-grants/ 
 
Loan Programs  
• Paycheck Protection Program   
o The Paycheck Protection Program is a cornerstone of aid offered to provide small business loans on 
favorable terms to borrowers impacted by the current state of economic uncertainty. Specifically, 
the program is designed to help small businesses keep their workforce employed. 
o Eligibility criteria: all small businesses including nonprofits, Veterans organizations, Tribal concerns, 
sole proprietorships, self-employed individuals, and independent contractors, with 500 or fewer 
employees, or no greater than the number of employees set by the SBA as the size standard for 
certain industries. 
o Loan application deadline has been extended to August 8, 2020 .  
o Complete listings of Utah banks and credit unions authorized to participate in the U.S. Small 
Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) are available 
at utah.bank and utahscreditunions.org. Divvy, a Utah fintech company, has partnered with New 
Jersey-based Cross River Bank to help companies access U.S. Small Business Administration 
Paycheck Protection Program funding. Learn more here. 
 
• Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL)  
o The SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan program provides small businesses and agricultural 
businesses with working capital loans of up to $2M that can provide vital economic support to 
businesses to overcome the temporary loss of revenue they are experiencing.  
o Small business owners (≤500 FTEs) in all U.S. states and territories are currently eligible to apply for 
a low-interest loan due to COVID-19. 
o There’s no immediate deadline to apply, no fee to apply, and no credit card information is required.  
 
 
 
Grant Programs  
• Small Business Impact Grant (SBIG) - Salt Lake County  
o The Greater Salt Lake MSD is proud to support Salt Lake County’s Small Business Impact Grant 
(SBIG) Program. Small businesses are eligible for grants of up to $35,000  in financial aid to help 
business owners directly impacted by the COVID-19 public health orders and subsequent closures. 
Because these are grants, they do not need to be repaid. The grant is funded through the CARES 
Act to assist in local recovery efforts. 
o Eligibility criteria and how to apply: The application is OPEN NOW . Visit slco.org/covid-19/ to 
see if your business is eligible and submit an application today. 
o Have questions or need help? Those who need help or have questions about the application can 
call the Business Relief Hotline at (385) 468 -4011 and talk to a real person. Application assistance 
in Spanish, Mandarin, Arabic and Vietnamese is also available for free through the Hotline. 
 
• “Create In Utah ”: $9M Cultural Assistance Grant Program  (closes soon!)  
o provides $9 million in grants to arts organizations with annual budgets of more than $5 million. The 
funding is targeted for programs that boost travel/tourism and help local economies 
recover. Organizations that are granted money through this program are not eligible to receive 
additional funding through Utah Arts & Museums during FY21. 
o Applications are open now but will close on  August 7, 2020 . Applications will be reviewed by a 
committee made up of UA&M staff and board members, as well as key leaders in the cultural 
community. Expenditures must be made by December 30, 2020. 
o Additional resources/information for cultural organizations can be found at 
https://artsandmuseums.utah.gov/covid-19-cultural-resources/. 
 
 
• “Safe In Utah ”: $5M PPE Support Grant Program  
o provides grants to businesses to improve workplace safety for workers and customers during the 
COVID-19 pandemic through measures such as personal protective equipment (PPE) purchases, 
workplace redesigns, signage, and technology solutions that allow for distance working.  
o “Safe In Utah” began accepting applications on July 20. By August 31, the Utah Governor’s Office 
of Economic Development (GOED) must award at least 75% of grant funds to small businesses of 
250 or fewer full-time equivalent (FTE) employees. The program is designed to help Utah small 
businesses primarily. 
 
• “Learn & Work In Utah ”: Displaced Worker Grant Program  
o $9M initiative that provides training for workers displaced due to COVID-19 by funding 
GOED’s Utah Works program within Talent Ready Utah. This initiative includes support for the 
Utah System of Higher Education’s Custom Fit program and several other workforce training 
programs to provide education and training to displaced workers.  
o Those who are interested in learning more or signing up will be able to do so after the first week in 
August. At that point, there will be an online dashboard that will lead residents to the programs 
offered by Utah tech colleges, community colleges and universities. 
o As part of the program, the Department of Workforce Services will create a dashboard to identify 
unemployment and job opening trends to match workers with job opportunities. 
 
• “Shop In Utah ”: $25M Impacted Businesses Grant Program  
o This $25M initiative provides grants to businesses negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
To qualify for this grant, businesses must offer a discount or other offer with an estimated value to 
consumers of at least 50% of the grant amount. GOED must award at least 75% of grant funds to 
Utah small businesses (companies with 250 or fewer full-time employees). 
o More details and application instructions will be available on July 27. 
 
 
• “Healthy In Utah ”: $1M Outreach & Education Program  
o More details will be available soon. 
 
• COVID -19 Commercial Rental Assistance Program  
o The COVID-19 Commercial Rental Assistance Program includes $40 million in commercial 
property rental assistance. GOED will administer the grants providing rental relief to Utah small 
businesses — including nonprofits, sole proprietors, independent contractors and those that are self-
employed — that have lost revenue as a result of measures taken to minimize the public’s exposure 
to COVID-19. 
 
• Nonprofit Relief Fund - Utah Department of Heritage & Arts  
o The Division of Arts & Museums and UServe Utah, in collaboration with Utah Humanities and the 
Utah Nonprofits Association, are developing an emergency relief grant program for non-profit 
organizations. Donations are currently being solicited here.  
o Details regarding eligibility criteria and the application process will be available soon. 
o Additional resources/information for cultural organizations can be found at 
https://artsandmuseums.utah.gov/covid-19-cultural-resources/. 
 
• Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Resources  
o Click on the link above to see how CDBG grantees may use CDBG funds for a range of eligible 
activities that prevent and respond to the spread of infectious diseases such as the coronavirus 
disease 2019 (COVID-19). 
 
 
 
 
 
Esri Demographic and Economic Reports for Kearns Metro Township  
Accessed from Business Analyst between Ju ne 2020  and September 2020  
_____________________________________________________________________________________________  
 
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
Households: 1,824,900
Average Household Size: 3.19 
Median Age: 32.5
Median Household Income: $50,900
LifeMode Group: Ethnic Enclaves 
American Dreamers
WHO ARE WE?
Located throughout the South and West, most American 
Dreamers residents own their own homes, primarily 
single-family housing—farther out of the city, where housing 
is more affordable. Median household income is slightly 
below average (Index 91). The majority of households 
include younger married-couple families with children and, 
frequently, grandparents. Diversity is high; many residents 
are foreign born, of Hispanic origin. Hard work and sacrifice 
have improved their economic circumstance as they pursue 
a better life for themselves and their family. Spending is 
focused more on the members of the household than the 
home. Entertainment includes multiple televisions, movie 
rentals, and video games at home or visits to theme parks 
and zoos. This market is connected and adept at accessing 
what they want from the Internet.
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
• American Dreamers residents are family-centric and  
 diverse. Most are married couples with children  
 of all ages or single parents; multigenerational  
 homes are common (Index 201).
• Average household size is higher at 3.19 
 (Index 123).
• Residents tend to live further out from urban   
 centers—more affordable single-family homes  
 and more elbow room.
• Tenure is slightly above average with 64%   
 owner occupancy; primarily single-family homes  
 with more mortgages (Index 114) and slightly   
 higher monthly costs (Index 115). 
• Three quarters of all housing were built since 1970.
• Many neighborhoods are located in the urban  
 periphery of the largest metropolitan areas   
 across the South and West. 
• Most households have one or two vehicles 
 available and a longer commute to work.
SOCIOECONOMIC TRAITS
• While nearly 17% have earned a college  
 degree, the majority, or 63%, hold a   
 high school diploma only or spent   
 some time at a college or university.
• Unemployment is higher at 7.4%   
 (Index 136); labor force participation 
 is also higher at 66%.
• Most American Dreamers residents   
 derive income from wages or salaries,  
 but the rate of poverty is a bit higher 
 in this market (Index 116).
• They tend to spend money carefully   
 and focus more on necessities.
• They are captivated by new technology, 
 particularly feature-rich smartphones.
• Connected: They use the Internet   
 primarily for socializing but also for   
 convenience, like paying bills online. 
Note: The Index represents the ratio of the segment rate to the US rate multiplied by 100.
    Consumer preferences are estimated from data by GfK MRI.
7C
85+
80–84
75–79
70–74
65–69
60–64
55–59
50–54
45–49
40–44
35–39
30–34
25–29
20–24
15–19
10–14
5–9
<5
8%                     4%                        0                        4%                      8%
Male Female
Median Household Income
Median Net Worth
$56,100
$93,300
$50,900
$59,400
$0 $100,000 $200,000 $300,000 $400,000 $500,000 $600,000
Esri	Median	HH	Income
Esri	Median	Net	Worth
Series2 Series1
$56,100
$93,300
$50,900
$59,400
$0 $100,000 $200,000 $300,000 $400,000 $500,000 $600,000
Esri	Median	HH	Income
Esri	Median	Net	Worth
Series2 Series1
Housing
Food
Apparel & Services
Transportation
Health Care
Entertainment &
Recreation
Education
Pensions &
Social Security
Other
0.0%0.5%1.0%1.5%2.0%2.5%3.0%3.5%4.0%4.5%5.0%
Male	Age	0-4
Male	Age	5-9
Male	Age	10-14
Male	Age	15-19
Male	Age	20-24
Male	Age	25-29
Male	Age	30-34
Male	Age	35-39
Male	Age	40-44
Male	Age	45-49
Male	Age	50-54
Male	Age	55-59
Male	Age	60-64
Male	Age	65-69
Male	Age	70-74
Male	Age	75-79
Male	Age	80-84
Male	Age	85+
Age	by	Sex	- Male
Series2 Series1
0.0% 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 2.0% 2.5% 3.0% 3.5% 4.0% 4.5%
Female	Age	0-4
Female	Age	5-9
Female	Age	10-14
Female	Age	15-19
Female	Age	20-24
Female	Age	25-29
Female	Age	30-34
Female	Age	35-39
Female	Age	40-44
Female	Age	45-49
Female	Age	50-54
Female	Age	55-59
Female	Age	60-64
Female	Age	65-69
Female	Age	70-74
Female	Age	75-79
Female	Age	80-84
Female	Age	85+
Chart	Title
Series2 Series1
INCOME AND NET WORTH
Net worth measures total household assets (homes, vehicles, 
investments, etc.) less any debts, secured (e.g., mortgages)
or unsecured (credit cards). Household income and
net worth are estimated by Esri.
OCCUPATION BY EARNINGS
The fi  ve occupations with the highest number of workers in the market are displayed
by median earnings. Data from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey.
AVERAGE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET INDEX
The index compares the average amount spent in this market’s household budgets for 
housing, food, apparel, etc., to the average amount spent by all US households. An index
of 100 is average. An index of 120 shows that average spending by consumers in this market
is 20 percent above the national average. Consumer expenditures are estimated by Esri.
AGE BY SEX (Esri data)
Median Age: 32.5   US: 38.2
      Indicates US
RACE AND ETHNICITY (Esri data)
The Diversity Index summarizes racial and ethnic diversity. The index 
shows the likelihood that two persons, chosen at random from the 
same area, belong to different race or ethnic groups. The index 
ranges from 0 (no diversity) to 100 (complete diversity).
Diversity Index: 84.1   US: 64.0
Hispanic*
Multiple
Other
Asian and
Pac. Islander
American
Indian
Black
White
$140,000
$120,000
$100,000
$80,000
$60,000
$40,000
$20,000
0
                      100,000            2  200,000          6    300,000                 400,000
*Hispanic Can Be of Any Race.
0                  20%                40%               60%                80% 
0        $100K     $200K     $300K     $400K     $500K    $600K+
0        $100K     $200K     $300K     $400K     $500K    $600K+
US Average. US Median.
Median Earnings
Workers (Age 16+)
78
78
79
80
75
77
68
78
76
0              50             100            150            200            250            300            350
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
LifeMode Group: Ethnic Enclaves 
American Dreamers7C
Own
63.7%
Rent
36.3%
Chart	Title
Own Rent
Home
Ownership
US Percentage:
62.7% Own 
37.3% Rent
Population
Population Growth (Annual %)
Population Density (Persons per sq. mile)
350
350
350
0
0
0
900,000
-0.5%
0
                    11,000,000
3.0%
25,000
5,856,600
1.0%
1000
Wealth Index
Socioeconomic Status Index
Housing Affordability Index
55
85
168
48
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
MARKET PROFILE (Consumer preferences are estimated from data by GfK MRI)
• When dining out, these residents favor fast-food dining places such as 
 Taco Bell or Little Caesar’s, as well as family-friendly restaurants like 
 Olive Garden, Denny’s, or IHOP .
• Cell phones are preferred over landlines.
• Favorite channels include Animal Planet, MTV, ABC Family Channel, Bravo, 
 and Nick Jr., as well as programming on Spanish TV.
• Residents listen to urban or Hispanic radio.
• During the summer, family outings to theme parks are especially popular.
ESRI INDEXES
Esri developed three indexes to display average household wealth, socioeconomic status, 
and housing affordability for the market relative to US standards.
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS
Total population, average annual population change since Census 2010, and average 
density (population per square mile) are displayed for the market relative to the size 
and change among all Tapestry markets. Data estimated by Esri.
LifeMode Group: Ethnic Enclaves 
American Dreamers7C
HOUSING
Median home value is displayed for markets that are primarily 
owner occupied; average rent is shown for renter-occupied markets. 
Tenure and home value are estimated by Esri. Housing type and average 
rent are from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey.
Typical Housing:
Single Family
Median Value:
$145,900
US Median: $207,300
High
Low
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
SEGMENT DENSITY
This map illustrates the density and  
distribution of the American Dreamers  
Tapestry Segment by households.  
LifeMode Group: Ethnic Enclaves 
American Dreamers7C
For more information
1-800-447-9778
info@esri.com
esri.com
Copyright © 2020 Esri. All rights reserved. Esri, the Esri globe logo, Tapestry, @esri.com, and esri.com are trademarks, service marks, 
or registered marks of Esri in the United States, the European Community, or certain other jurisdictions. Other companies and 
products or services mentioned herein may be trademarks, service marks, or registered marks of their respective mark owners.
G826513
ESRI2C1/20ms
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
Households: 2,901,200
Average Household Size: 3.12 
Median Age: 31.4
Median Household Income: $72,000
LifeMode Group: Ethnic Enclaves 
Up and Coming Families
WHO ARE WE?
Up and Coming Families is a market in transition—residents 
are younger and more mobile and ethnically diverse than 
the previous generation. They are ambitious, working hard 
to get ahead, and willing to take some risks to achieve their 
goals. The recession has impacted their financial well-being, 
but they are optimistic. Their homes are new; their families 
are young. And this is one of the fastest-growing markets 
in the country.
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
• New suburban periphery: new families 
 in new housing subdivisions. 
• Building began in the housing boom 
 of the 2000s and continues in this   
 fast-growing market.
• Single-family homes with a median value 
 of $194,400 and a lower vacancy rate.
• The price of affordable housing: 
 longer commute times (Index 217).
SOCIOECONOMIC TRAITS
• Education: 67% have some college 
 education or degree(s). 
• Hard-working labor force with a 
 participation rate of 71% (Index 114) 
 and low unemployment at 4.6% (Index 84).
• Most households (61%) have 2 or 
 more workers.
• Careful shoppers, aware of prices, willing 
 to shop around for the best deals and open  
 to influence by others’ opinions.
• Seek the latest and best in technology.
• Young families still feathering the nest 
 and establishing their style.
Note: The Index represents the ratio of the segment rate to the US rate multiplied by 100.
    Consumer preferences are estimated from data by GfK MRI.
7A
85+
80–84
75–79
70–74
65–69
60–64
55–59
50–54
45–49
40–44
35–39
30–34
25–29
20–24
15–19
10–14
5–9
<5
8%                     4%                        0                        4%                      8%
Male Female
Median Household Income
Median Net Worth
$56,100
$93,300
$72,000
$122,700
$0 $100,000 $200,000 $300,000 $400,000 $500,000 $600,000
Esri	Median	HH	Income
Esri	Median	Net	Worth
Series2 Series1
$56,100
$93,300
$72,000
$122,700
$0 $100,000 $200,000 $300,000 $400,000 $500,000 $600,000
Esri	Median	HH	Income
Esri	Median	Net	Worth
Series2 Series1
Housing
Food
Apparel & Services
Transportation
Health Care
Entertainment &
Recreation
Education
Pensions &
Social Security
Other
!"!# $!"%# $&"!# $&"%# $'"!# $'"%# $("!# $("%# $)"!# $)"%# $%"!# $
!"#$%&'$%()*
!"#$%&'$%+),
!"#$%&'$%-()-*
!"#$%&'$%-+)-, $
!"#$%&'$%.().*
!"#$%&'$%.+)., $
!"#$%&'$%/()/* $
!"#$%&'$%/+)/, $
!"#$%&'$%*()**$
!"#$%&'$%*+)*, $
!"#$%&'$%+()+*$
!"#$%&'$%++)+, $
!"#$%&'$%0()0*$
!"#$%&'$%0+)0, $
!"#$%&'$%1()1*$
!"#$%&'$%1+)1, $
!"#$%&'$%2()2*$
!"#$%&'$%2+3
&'$%45%6$7%) !"#$
6$89$:. 6$89$:-
!"!# $ !"%# $ &"!# $ &"%# $ '"!# $ '"%# $ ("!# $ ("%# $ )"!# $ )"%# $ %"!# $
!"#$%"&'("&)*+
!"#$%"&'("&,*-
!"#$%"&'("&.) *.+
!"#$%"&'("&., *.-
!"#$%"&'("&/) */+
!"#$%"&'("&/, */-
!"#$%"&'("&0)*0+
!"#$%"&'("&0,*0-
!"#$%"&'("&+)*++
!"#$%"&'("&+,*+-
!"#$%"&'("&,) *,+
!"#$%"&'("&,, *,-
!"#$%"&'("&1)*1+
!"#$%"&'("&1,*1-
!"#$%"&'("&2)*2+
!"#$%"&'("&2,*2-
!"#$%"&'("&3)*3+
!"#$%"&'("&3,4
56$78&9:8%"
;"7:"</ ;"7:"<.
INCOME AND NET WORTH
Net worth measures total household assets (homes, vehicles, 
investments, etc.) less any debts, secured (e.g., mortgages)
or unsecured (credit cards). Household income and
net worth are estimated by Esri.
OCCUPATION BY EARNINGS
The fi  ve occupations with the highest number of workers in the market are displayed
by median earnings. Data from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey.
AVERAGE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET INDEX
The index compares the average amount spent in this market’s household budgets for 
housing, food, apparel, etc., to the average amount spent by all US households. An index
of 100 is average. An index of 120 shows that average spending by consumers in this market
is 20 percent above the national average. Consumer expenditures are estimated by Esri.
AGE BY SEX (Esri data)
Median Age: 31.4   US: 38.2
      Indicates US
RACE AND ETHNICITY (Esri data)
The Diversity Index summarizes racial and ethnic diversity. The index 
shows the likelihood that two persons, chosen at random from the 
same area, belong to different race or ethnic groups. The index 
ranges from 0 (no diversity) to 100 (complete diversity).
Diversity Index: 73.9   US: 64.0
Hispanic*
Multiple
Other
Asian and
Pac. Islander
American
Indian
Black
White
$140,000
$120,000
$100,000
$80,000
$60,000
$40,000
$20,000
0
                                  200,000            2          400,000          6           600,000
*Hispanic Can Be of Any Race.
0                  20%                40%               60%                80%    
0        $100K     $200K     $300K     $400K     $500K    $600K+
0        $100K     $200K     $300K     $400K     $500K    $600K+
US Average. US Median.
Median Earnings
Workers (Age 16+)
104
105
110
106
100
105
93
111
105
0              50             100            150            200            250            300            350
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
LifeMode Group: Ethnic Enclaves 
Up and Coming Families7A
Own
73.9%
Rent
26.1%
Chart	Title
Own Rent
Home
Ownership
US Percentage:
62.7% Own 
37.3% Rent
Population
Population Growth (Annual %)
Population Density (Persons per sq. mile)
350
350
350
0
0
0
900,000
-0.5%
0
                    11,000,000
3.0%
25,000
9,115,600
2.8%
1000
Wealth Index
Socioeconomic Status Index
Housing Affordability Index
85
116
180
966
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
MARKET PROFILE (Consumer preferences are estimated from data by GfK MRI)
• Rely on the Internet for entertainment, information, shopping, and banking.
• Prefer imported SUVs or compact cars, late models.
• Carry debt from credit card balances to student loans and mortgages, but also 
 maintain retirement plans and make charitable contributions.
• Busy with work and family; use home and landscaping services to save time.
• Find leisure in family activities, movies at home, trips to theme parks or the zoo, 
 and sports; from golfing, weight lifting, to taking a jog or run.
ESRI INDEXES
Esri developed three indexes to display average household wealth, socioeconomic status, 
and housing affordability for the market relative to US standards.
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS
Total population, average annual population change since Census 2010, and average 
density (population per square mile) are displayed for the market relative to the size 
and change among all Tapestry markets. Data estimated by Esri.
LifeMode Group: Ethnic Enclaves 
Up and Coming Families7A
HOUSING
Median home value is displayed for markets that are primarily 
owner occupied; average rent is shown for renter-occupied markets. 
Tenure and home value are estimated by Esri. Housing type and average 
rent are from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey.
Typical Housing:
Single Family
Median Value:
$194,400
US Median: $207,300
High
Low
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
SEGMENT DENSITY
This map illustrates the density and  
distribution of the Up and Coming Families  
Tapestry Segment by households.  
LifeMode Group: Ethnic Enclaves 
Up and Coming Families7A
For more information
1-800-447-9778
info@esri.com
esri.com
Copyright © 2020 Esri. All rights reserved. Esri, the Esri globe logo, Tapestry, @esri.com, and esri.com are trademarks, service marks, 
or registered marks of Esri in the United States, the European Community, or certain other jurisdictions. Other companies and 
products or services mentioned herein may be trademarks, service marks, or registered marks of their respective mark owners.
G826513
ESRI2C1/20ms
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
Households: 2,114,500
Average Household Size: 2.88 
Median Age: 37.7
Median Household Income: $72,100
LifeMode Group: Family Landscapes 
Home Improvement
WHO ARE WE?
Married-couple families occupy well over half of these 
suburban households. Most Home Improvement  
residences are single-family homes that are owner  
occupied, with only one-fifth of the households occupied 
by renters. Education and diversity levels are similar to 
the US as a whole. These families spend a lot of time on 
the go and therefore tend to eat out regularly. When at 
home, weekends are consumed with home improvement 
and remodeling projects. 
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
• These are low density suburban 
 neighborhoods.
• Eight of every 10 homes are traditional  
 single-family dwellings, owner occupied. 
• Majority of the homes were built between  
 1970 and 2000.
• More than half of the households consist 
 of married-couple families; another 12%  
 include single-parent families.
SOCIOECONOMIC TRAITS
• Higher participation in the labor force and  
 lower unemployment than US levels; most  
 households have 2+ workers.
• Cautious consumers that do their research  
 before buying, they protect their investments.
• Typically spend 4–7 hours per week 
 commuting, and, therefore, spend 
 significant amounts on car maintenance  
 (performed at a department store or 
 auto repair chain store).
• They are paying off student loans and  
 home mortgages.
• They spend heavily on eating out, at both 
 fast-food and family restaurants.
• They like to work from home, when possible.
Note: The Index represents the ratio of the segment rate to the US rate multiplied by 100.
    Consumer preferences are estimated from data by GfK MRI.
4B
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
LifeMode Group: Family Landscapes 
Home Improvement4B
85+
80–84
75–79
70–74
65–69
60–64
55–59
50–54
45–49
40–44
35–39
30–34
25–29
20–24
15–19
10–14
5–9
<5
8%                     4%                        0                        4%                      8%
Male Female
Median Household Income
Median Net Worth
$56,100
$93,300
$72,100
$190,400
$0 $100,000 $200,000 $300,000 $400,000 $500,000 $600,000
Esri	Median	HH	Income
Esri	Median	Net	Worth
Series2 Series1
$56,100
$93,300
$72,100
$190,400
$0 $100,000 $200,000 $300,000 $400,000 $500,000 $600,000
Esri	Median	HH	Income
Esri	Median	Net	Worth
Series2 Series1
Housing
Food
Apparel & Services
Transportation
Health Care
Entertainment &
Recreation
Education
Pensions &
Social Security
Other
0.0%0.5%1.0%1.5%2.0%2.5%3.0%3.5%4.0%4.5%
Male	Age	0-4
Male	Age	5-9
Male	Age	10-14
Male	Age	15-19
Male	Age	20-24
Male	Age	25-29
Male	Age	30-34
Male	Age	35-39
Male	Age	40-44
Male	Age	45-49
Male	Age	50-54
Male	Age	55-59
Male	Age	60-64
Male	Age	65-69
Male	Age	70-74
Male	Age	75-79
Male	Age	80-84
Male	Age	85+
Age	by	Sex	- Male
Series2 Series1
0.0% 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 2.0% 2.5% 3.0% 3.5% 4.0% 4.5%
Female	Age	0-4
Female	Age	5-9
Female	Age	10-14
Female	Age	15-19
Female	Age	20-24
Female	Age	25-29
Female	Age	30-34
Female	Age	35-39
Female	Age	40-44
Female	Age	45-49
Female	Age	50-54
Female	Age	55-59
Female	Age	60-64
Female	Age	65-69
Female	Age	70-74
Female	Age	75-79
Female	Age	80-84
Female	Age	85+
Chart	Title
Series2 Series1
INCOME AND NET WORTH
Net worth measures total household assets (homes, vehicles, 
investments, etc.) less any debts, secured (e.g., mortgages)
or unsecured (credit cards). Household income and
net worth are estimated by Esri.
OCCUPATION BY EARNINGS
The fi  ve occupations with the highest number of workers in the market are displayed
by median earnings. Data from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey.
AVERAGE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET INDEX
The index compares the average amount spent in this market’s household budgets for 
housing, food, apparel, etc., to the average amount spent by all US households. An index
of 100 is average. An index of 120 shows that average spending by consumers in this market
is 20 percent above the national average. Consumer expenditures are estimated by Esri.
AGE BY SEX (Esri data)
Median Age: 37.7   US: 38.2
      Indicates US
RACE AND ETHNICITY (Esri data)
The Diversity Index summarizes racial and ethnic diversity. The index 
shows the likelihood that two persons, chosen at random from the 
same area, belong to different race or ethnic groups. The index 
ranges from 0 (no diversity) to 100 (complete diversity).
Diversity Index: 65.7   US: 64.0
Hispanic*
Multiple
Other
Asian and
Pac. Islander
American
Indian
Black
White
$140,000
$120,000
$100,000
$80,000
$60,000
$40,000
$20,000
0
                   100,000                              300,000    20                     500,000   
*Hispanic Can Be of Any Race.
0                  20%               40%                60%                80%
0        $100K     $200K     $300K     $400K     $500K    $600K+
0        $100K     $200K     $300K     $400K     $500K    $600K+
US Average. US Median.
Median Earnings
Workers (Age 16+)
0              50             100            150            200            250            300            350
103
102
105
103
104
104
99
109
106
Own
79.4%
Rent
20.6%
Chart	Title
Own Rent
Home
Ownership
US Percentage:
62.7% Own 
37.3% Rent
Population
Population Growth (Annual %)
Population Density (Persons per sq. mile)
350
350
350
0
0
0
900,000
-0.5%
0
                    11,000,000
3.0%
25,000
6,105,100
0.7%
422
1000
Wealth Index
Socioeconomic Status Index
Housing Affordability Index
108
116
178
ESRI INDEXES
Esri developed three indexes to display average household wealth, socioeconomic status, 
and housing affordability for the market relative to US standards.
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
MARKET PROFILE (Consumer preferences are estimated from data by GfK MRI)
• Enjoy working on home improvement projects and watching DIY networks.
• Make frequent trips to warehouse/club and home improvement stores 
 in their minivan or SUV.
• Own a giant screen TV with fiber-optic connection and premium cable; 
 rent DVDs from Redbox or Netflix.com.
• Very comfortable with new technology; embrace the convenience of 
 completing tasks on a mobile device.
• Enjoy dining at Chili’s, Chick-fil-A, and KFC.
• Frequently buy children’s clothes and toys.
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS
Total population, average annual population change since Census 2010, and average 
density (population per square mile) are displayed for the market relative to the size 
and change among all Tapestry markets. Data estimated by Esri.
LifeMode Group: Family Landscapes 
Home Improvement4B
HOUSING
Median home value is displayed for markets that are primarily 
owner occupied; average rent is shown for renter-occupied markets. 
Tenure and home value are estimated by Esri. Housing type and average 
rent are from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey.
Typical Housing:
Single Family
Median Value:
$192,600
US Median: $207,300
High
Low
TAPESTRY
SEGMENTATION
TM
esri.com/tapestry
SEGMENT DENSITY
This map illustrates the density and  
distribution of the Home Improvement  
Tapestry Segment by households.  
LifeMode Group: Family Landscapes 
Home Improvement4B
For more information
1-800-447-9778
info@esri.com
esri.com
Copyright © 2020 Esri. All rights reserved. Esri, the Esri globe logo, Tapestry, @esri.com, and esri.com are trademarks, service marks, 
or registered marks of Esri in the United States, the European Community, or certain other jurisdictions. Other companies and 
products or services mentioned herein may be trademarks, service marks, or registered marks of their respective mark owners.
G826513
ESRI2C1/20ms
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
2010 Residential Population: 35,786 2020 Total Sales ($000) $328,098
2020 Residential Population: 36,867 2020 Total Employees 3,462
2025 Residential Population: 38,307 Employee/Residential Population Ratio: 0.09:1
Annual Population Growth 2020 - 2025 0.77% Total Number of Businesses: 283
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
544104 DAN LALOR SALES CO 0.02 SW 3 $236
PO BOX 18160
KEARNS, UT 84118
832218 MOTHERS AGAINST DRUNK DRIVING 0.02 SW 2 $117
PO BOX 18769
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
478902 TAGALONG'S PILOT CAR SVC 0.02 SW 2 $264
PO BOX 18244
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 FRAMERATE CORP 0.02 SW 0 $0
PO BOX 18830
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866110 HOPE RANCH MINISTRIES 0.02 SW 5 $0
PO BOX 18972
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
606101 MOUNTAIN AMERICA CREDIT UNION H 0.02 SW 10 $1,889
PO BOX 18489
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
399903 PREMIUM MANUFACTURING LLC 0.02 SW 6 $629
PO BOX 18565
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 DYSPHAGIA EXPERTS OF UTAH INC 0.02 SW 0 $0
PO BOX 18332
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 SJ MCGARRY AUTHOR 0.02 SW 0 $0
PO BOX 18435
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
734902 AAA ADVANCED CARPET CLEANING 0.09 SW 3 $341
W SUNDROP CIR
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
921104 TAYLORSVILLE JUSTICE COURT 0.20 NW 7 $0
W 5320 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
799101 OQUIRRH PARK FITNESS CTR 0.25 SE 8 $319
S COUGAR LN
KEARNS, UT 84118
799701 KEARNS OQUIRRH PARK FITNESS 0.25 SE 200 $9,031
S COUGAR LN
KEARNS, UT 84118
791101 BECKY'S SCHOOL OF DANCE 0.25 SE 2 $62
S COUGAR LN
KEARNS, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
799951 OQUIRRH RECREATION & PARKS 0.25 SE 500 $0
S COUGAR LN
KEARNS, UT 84118
821103 UTAH HIGH SCH ACTIVITIES ASSN S 0.25 SE 32 $0
S COUGAR LN
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
799901 UTAH OLYMPIC OVAL I 0.28 SE 100 $6,772
S COUGAR LN
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
799901 US SPEEDSKATING I 0.28 SE 15 $1,016
S COUGAR LN
KEARNS, UT 84118
821103 WESTERN HILLS ELEMENTARY SCH EN 0.30 NW 60 $0
S HEATH AVE
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
799701 KEARNS RECREATION CTR 0.31 SE 45 $2,032
S COUGAR LN
KEARNS, UT 84118
912103 COUNTY OF SALT LAKE 0.31 SE 16 $0
S COUGAR LN
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
821103 KEARNS HIGH SCHOOL NS 0.31 SE 20 $0
S COUGAR LN
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
806301 CHILDREN'S CENTER 0.31 NE 43 $4,882
S 4820 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
541105 LA PLACITA MARKET 0.34 NE 3 $370
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
581222 PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA J 0.34 NE 22 $1,119
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
723106 SHEAR PERFECTION 0.35 NE 4 $156
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 DAVIS TONIA B 0.35 NE 0 $0
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
569917 TEES-LEES T-SHIRTS-SWEAT SHIRT 0.35 NE 1 $120
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
569917 TEES & LEES TEE SHIRT SHOP 0.35 NE 2 $240
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866107 CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LDS V 0.35 NW 2 $0
S SARAH JANE DR
KEARNS, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 2 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
723106 KAREN'S HAIR FLAIR 0.35 NW 1 $39
S 5160 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
581208 RICE WOK GARDEN INC 0.39 NE 8 $407
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
581208 WING STREET ì 0.39 NE 20 $0
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
581222 PIZZA HUT M 0.39 NE 22 $1,119
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
541103 7-ELEVEN W 0.41 NE 9 $1,109
S 4637 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
784108 REDBOX R 0.41 NE 0 $0
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
602103 ATM C 0.41 NE 0 $0
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
609902 WESTERN UNION AGENT LOCATION I 0.41 NE 2 $921
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
422503 54TH SOUTH STORAGE 0.42 NE 3 $289
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866107 NEW PILGRIM BAPTIST CHURCH C 0.44 NW 3 $0
S HEATH AVE
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
829918 NEW PILGRIM SCHOOL-FINE ARTS 0.44 NW 1 $0
S HEATH AVE
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
152144 INNOCRETE CONSTRUCTION INC 0.45 NE 3 $1,530
S CAPEHART ST
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866107 CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LDS V 0.46 NE 2 $0
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
999977 GREEN FOOT MOWING 0.46 NW 0 $0
S 5240 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 KEARNS IMPROVEMENT DIST UTLTY 0.50 NW 0 $0
W 5400 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
912104 KEARNS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT 0.50 NW 48 $0
W 5400 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 3 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
835101 SMART KIDS 0.52 NW 14 $242
W 5035 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
573407 COMPTRONICS 0.52 SW 2 $490
S HIGHWOOD DR
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
721201 INTERMOUNTAIN CLEANERS & CNSTR 0.53 SW 7 $371
W SCENIC PARK CIR
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866107 CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LDS V 0.53 NW 2 $0
W 5400 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
734953 DARLING SOLUTIONS 0.58 NW 3 $341
W 5240 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
866107 CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LDS V 0.58 SW 2 $0
S PARK WOOD DR
KEARNS, UT 84118
725102 ACE SHOE REPAIR & ALTERATIONS 0.58 NW 1 $57
W 5200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84123
571236 SALT DESIGN CABINET & MILL LLC 0.62 NW 9 $2,423
W 4985 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
154107 GM CUSTOM EXTERIORS LLC 0.63 SE 10 $5,099
W 5780 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
821103 ST FRANCIS XAVIER REGIONAL SCH EJKP 0.64 NE 33 $0
W 5215 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866107 ST FRANCIS XAVIER PARISH E 0.64 NE 6 $0
W 5215 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866110 ROMAN CATHOLIC DIOCESE OF SLC 0.64 NE 5 $0
W 5215 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
721704 ALLURE CARPET CARPET 0.65 NE 3 $251
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
154213 BACH BUILDERS & DEVELOPERS INC 0.66 SE 4 $2,040
S COUGAR LN
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
651303 CARRINGTON SQUARE 0.66 SE 5 $683
S COUGAR LN
KEARNS, UT 84118
737102 TEAM STAFFING SOLUTIONS INC 0.70 SW 2 $288
S IMPRESSIONS DR
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 4 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
641112 LIBERTY NATIONAL LIFE INS CO 0.71 SW 20 $3,011
W STONE BLUFF WAY
KEARNS, UT 84118
176109 ACTION ROOFING 0.74 SE 4 $664
W 5740 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
344403 VENTLINE INC 0.74 NW 24 $3,834
W 4985 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
653101 EKSTROM & ASSOC REALTY INC 0.74 SE 5 $721
S HUMMEL DR
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
799955 WHITE BUTTERFLY READINGS 0.77 SW 1 $68
S 5575 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
573117 PEAK MOBILE COMM 0.77 NW 10 $2,445
S WAREHOUSE RD
KEARNS, UT 84118
594708 BRAVO! INVITATIONS 0.78 SW 4 $342
S STONE FLOWER WAY
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
344403 VENTLINE INC 0.78 NW 12 $1,917
S WAREHOUSE RD
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
734902 BOBBI'S CLEANING SVC 0.79 SW 3 $341
W KARSTEN CT
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
172102 PRECISE PAINTING 0.79 NE 4 $664
W 5215 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
421304 SAVAGE SWEETS INC 0.81 NW 40 $8,656
S WAREHOUSE RD
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
503305 3 D ART INC 0.81 NW 5 $5,236
W 4900 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
581208 MC DONALD'S K 0.81 NW 45 $2,289
S 5600 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
811103 S DEE LONG-ATTORNEY AT LAW 0.82 SW 4 $811
W HALSTEAD CT
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
753801 ACE AUTOMOTIVE 0.83 NW 3 $426
S WAREHOUSE RD
KEARNS, UT 84118
523110 GARRICK CLIF GLASS 0.83 NE 2 $640
W 5215 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 5 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
784108 REDBOX R 0.83 NW 0 $0
S 5600 W
WEST VALLEY CITY, UT 84118
602103 ATM º 0.83 NW 0 $0
S 5600 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
541103 HOLIDAY OIL CO 0.83 NW 8 $986
S 5600 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
343203 AAA SPRINKLER REPAIR LLC 0.83 SW 1 $257
W SUNNY PEAK CIR
KEARNS, UT 84118
422501 SE CURRENTS 0.83 SE 2 $193
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
243401 HALLMARK CABINETS 0.84 NW 33 $6,697
S WAREHOUSE RD
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
571922 CENTURY CARPET-UPHOLSTERY 0.84 SE 1 $196
W 6015 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 LOCAL PAGES INC 0.84 NW 0 $0
W 4820 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866107 TRINITY UNITED METHODIST CHR R 0.84 NE 2 $0
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 UTAH/WESTERN CO DISTRICT OFC 0.84 NE 0 $0
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
999977 PEAK FASTENERS INC 0.84 NE 0 $0
W 5135 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866107 CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LDS V 0.85 NW 2 $0
W 4865 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
821103 WEST KEARNS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL EN 0.86 NE 90 $0
S 4620 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
581208 SUBWAY R 0.86 SE 10 $509
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
628203 STEVEN MCCOMBS-STATE FARM INS 0.86 SE 3 $934
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
481207 T-MOBILE d 0.86 SE 3 $2,518
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 6 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
075204 A FUR AFFAIR PET SALON 0.86 SE 3 $118
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
801104 KEARNS CLINIC M 0.87 SE 9 $1,758
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
801104 INTERMOUNTAIN HEALTHCARE 0.87 SE 17 $3,320
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
899907 ATLAS BRONZE CASTING 0.87 NW 8 $801
S 5200 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
581208 ARCTIC CIRCLE â 0.88 SE 20 $1,018
S COUGAR LN
KEARNS, UT 84118
899907 ATLAS BRONZE CASTING 0.88 NW 8 $801
W LIGHTNING LN
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
606101 AMERICA FIRST CREDIT UNION 0.88 SE 6 $1,133
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
431101 US POST OFFICE U 0.88 SE 4 $0
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
784108 REDBOX R 0.88 SE 0 $0
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
738905 COINSTAR H 0.88 SE 0 $0
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
602103 ATM ºÿ 0.88 SE 0 $0
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
541105 HARMONS t 0.88 SE 200 $13,778
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866107 CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LDS V 0.88 NW 2 $0
S 5600 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
866107 CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LDS V 0.89 NE 2 $0
W 5215 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
526136 STODDARD SPRINKLER & LANDSCAPE 0.89 SW 6 $1,187
W RIDGE FLOWER WAY
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
821103 BEEHIVE ELEMENTARY EKN 0.89 SE 60 $0
S 5220 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 7 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
753801 GINES AUTO SVC 0.89 NE 6 $852
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
733101 UPS STORE U 0.89 SE 4 $711
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
171105 STALLION PLUMBING & DRAINS 0.89 SE 7 $1,161
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
521101 POPEYE GARAGE DOORS 0.89 SE 2 $676
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
521101 ALLMAN GARAGE DOORS 0.89 SE 2 $676
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
521101 AARDVARK GARAGE DOORS 0.89 SE 2 $676
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
521101 ABACUS GARAGE DOORS 0.89 SE 2 $676
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
521101 ABSOLUTE GARAGE DOORS 0.89 SE 2 $676
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
521101 EDWARD'S GARAGE DOORS & GATES 0.89 SE 2 $676
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
175107 LOCAL GARAGE DOOR REPAIR 0.89 SE 2 $332
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
078206 ROAD RUNNER LAWN & PEST 0.89 SE 4 $403
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 WEST BAR WONG LLC 0.89 SE 0 $0
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
823106 SALT LAKE COUNTY LIBRARY 0.89 NE 9 $0
S 4220 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
912103 SALT LAKE COUNTY SHERIFF 0.89 NE 16 $0
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
738920 LINGUISTICA INTERNATIONAL 0.89 NE 2 $199
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
866107 FULL GOSPEL DELIVERENT CTR 0.89 NE 3 $0
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 8 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
866107 IGLESIA BAUTISTA FUNDEMANTAL 0.89 NE 3 $0
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
835106 OQUIRRH HILLS ELEMENTARY SCHL 0.90 NE 65 $1,121
S STEELE ST
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
821103 SOUTH KEARNS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL EN 0.90 NE 60 $0
S STEELE ST
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
729101 H&R BLOCK H 0.90 SE 8 $244
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
509905 LA PINATA MEXICAN IMPORTS 0.90 NE 4 $3,853
S 4220 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
723106 DEB'S FAMILY HAIRCARE CTR 0.90 NE 2 $78
S 4220 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
614101 INSTANT MONEY 0.90 SE 4 $2,303
S 4220 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
581208 TACO TIME × 0.90 SE 17 $865
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
171114 ABSOLUTE HEATING & AIR 0.91 NW 7 $1,161
W 4900 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
784108 REDBOX R 0.91 SE 0 $0
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
602103 ATM ÍºCÿ 0.91 SE 0 $0
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
541103 7-ELEVEN W 0.91 SE 10 $1,232
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
866107 CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LDS V 0.91 SE 2 $0
W 5700 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
171103 PROYECTOS PABLO 0.91 NE 12 $1,991
S 4420 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
602103 ATM º 0.91 NE 0 $0
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
554101 LA PICO MARKET 0.92 NE 4 $3,143
S 4220 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 9 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
999977 KSS CORP 0.92 NE 0 $0
S 4220 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
723106 GREAT CLIPS G 0.92 SE 11 $427
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
609902 WESTERN UNION AGENT LOCATION I 0.94 SE 2 $921
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
753801 PRECISION TUNE AUTO CARE P 0.95 NE 3 $426
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
823106 LIBRARY FACILITIES DEPT 0.95 NE 9 $0
S 4220 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
753801 KEARNS AUTO CTR INC 0.95 NE 4 $568
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
543101 STAN'S MARKET 0.96 NE 25 $3,483
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866107 JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES WEST N 0.96 SE 7 $0
S 4590 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
723106 B 4 & AFTER SALON 0.97 SE 4 $156
S 4520 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
591205 APOTHECARY WEST 0.97 NE 8 $2,257
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
999977 HARRIS CO INC 0.98 SW 0 $0
W LODESTONE AVE
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
821103 THOMAS JEFFERSON JR HIGH SCH JNS 0.99 SW 100 $0
S 5600 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 2908 DESIGN STUDIO 0.99 NW 0 $0
W 4700 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
581208 REFRESKERIA MI FIESTA 0.99 NE 8 $407
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
422503 ABC KEARNS SELF STORAGE 0.99 NE 1 $97
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
754922 ASE EMISSIONS & INSPECTIONS 1.01 NE 3 $323
S 4800 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84101
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 10 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
799945 GRACIE JIU-JITSU 54TH ST GYM 1.01 NE 1 $68
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
614101 SIMPLE LOANS 1.01 NE 2 $1,152
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
481207 CRICKET WIRELESS AUTH RETAILER z 1.02 NE 4 $3,357
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
651501 SHADOW RIDGE ESTATES 1.03 NE 2 $235
W 4700 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
999977 SERVICIOS EL PASISANO 1.03 NE 0 $0
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
723102 P T NAILS 1.03 NE 2 $78
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
723102 NESTOR'S BEAUTY SALON 1.03 NE 3 $117
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
602101 ZIONS BANK v 1.04 NE 7 $2,634
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
602103 ATM mº 1.04 NE 0 $0
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
614101 1ST CHOICE MONEY CTR 1.04 NE 5 $2,878
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
999977 EMPOWERMENT CENTER 1.04 NE 0 $0
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
794104 HIGH COUNTRY SPORTS ACADEMY 1.04 NE 10 $1,631
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
753801 MEANG AUTO 1.04 NE 1 $142
S 4800 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
733611 LAREAUX ILLUSTRATIONS 1.05 NW 2 $166
S TOWNSEND WAY
KEARNS, UT 84118
609910 DOLEX DOLLAR EXPRESS D 1.06 NE 2 $921
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
541105 AZTECA DE ORO 1.06 NE 3 $370
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 11 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
581208 FIESTA OLE 1.07 NE 10 $509
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
553111 AUTOZONE 2 1.07 NE 27 $6,010
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
179938 SINGLETON FENCE CO 1.07 NW 6 $1,527
S 5325 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
593229 XTREME PAWN 1.07 NE 1 $762
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
762902 KEARNS APPLIANCE REPAIR MEN 1.08 NE 30 $2,725
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
614113 CHECK INTO CASH 7 1.08 NE 2 $1,152
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
541103 PACIFIC MART 1.08 NE 3 $370
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
836105 SUMMIT SENIOR LIVING 1.08 SW 11 $0
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
866107 CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LDS V 1.08 NE 1 $0
W 5015 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
581222 DOMINO'S D 1.08 NE 20 $1,018
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
581208 COYOTES BOTANERO 1.08 NE 6 $306
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
481207 METRO BY T-MOBILE M 1.08 NE 2 $1,679
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
581203 LA MICHOACANA CD ANDRADE LLC 1.08 NE 5 $255
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
285103 LUSID TECHNOLOGIES INC 1.08 NW 25 $25,323
S CAMP KEARNS RD
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 NORTHSTAR COATINGS 1.08 NW 0 $0
S CAMP KEARNS RD
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
754918 EMISSIONS PLUS 1.09 NE 10 $1,076
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 12 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
481207 AMERICAN WIRELESS 1.09 NE 3 $2,518
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
614101 FIRST CHOICE MONEY CTR 1.09 NE 2 $1,152
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
541105 RANCHO MARKETS t 1.09 NE 20 $2,464
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
729101 OFICINA DE JOEL GUERRERO 1.09 NE 10 $305
W SAMS BLVD
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
599301 SMOKER FRIENDLY 1.09 NE 5 $1,093
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
541105 VIENTIANE ORIENTAL MARKET 1.09 NE 2 $247
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
581208 SUPER TACOS MEX LA ESPERANZA 1.11 NE 8 $407
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
753801 MASTER MUFFLERS 1.11 NE 5 $710
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
628204 OPORTUN 1.11 NE 3 $934
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
174203 SIMILAI CUSTOM DRYWALL INC 1.12 SE 2 $332
S 4390 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
581208 ARBY'S N 1.12 SW 25 $1,272
S 5600 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
599940 CREATIVE WEDDING & PARTY DECOR 1.12 NE 2 $299
S 4480 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
541103 MURPHY USA m 1.13 SW 5 $616
S 5600 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
553111 AUTOZONE 2 1.13 SW 10 $2,226
W 6200 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
734910 VALLEY LANDSCAPE & SNOW REMVL 1.14 NW 3 $341
W 4700 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
422503 PUBLIC STORAGE P 1.14 NE 3 $289
W SAMS BLVD
KEARNS, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 13 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
821103 DAVID GOURLEY ELEMENTARY SCH EN 1.14 NE 80 $0
S 4300 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
521124 ACTION WHOLESALE TRUSS 1.14 NW 35 $11,824
W 4700 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
533101 BIG LOTS f 1.14 NE 30 $5,968
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
581208 TACO BELL T 1.15 SW 19 $967
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
784108 REDBOX R 1.15 NE 0 $0
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
598406 BLUE RHINO H 1.15 NE 0 $0
W 5415 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
591205 WALGREENS 4 1.15 NE 20 $5,641
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
609910 WESTERN UNION AGENT LOCATION I 1.15 NE 3 $1,381
W 5415 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
801101 SPIN PROPERTIES RETINA 1.16 SW 8 $1,563
W PLUMBAGO AVE
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
591205 WALGREENS 4 1.17 SW 21 $5,923
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
598406 BLUE RHINO H 1.17 SW 0 $0
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
602103 ATM AC 1.17 SW 0 $0
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
609910 WESTERN UNION AGENT LOCATION I 1.17 SW 3 $1,381
W 6200 S
KEARNS, UT 84118
734922 A1 JOB BUSTERS 1.17 SW 2 $228
WEST VALLEY CITY, UT 84118
171105 ASAP PLUMBING & DRAIN 45 1.17 SW 3 $498
KEARNS, UT 84118
764109 ABSOLUTE CARPET REPAIR 1.17 SW 1 $71
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
734201 T & T PEST CONTROL 1.17 SW 3 $163
KEARNS, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 14 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
541105 EMD TRANSPORT LLC 1.17 SW 3 $370
KEARNS, UT 84118
738202 ADT AUTHORIZED DEALER 1.17 SW 6 $666
KEARNS, UT 84118
176109 OLYMPUS ROOFING INC 1.17 SW 5 $830
S 1905 W
TAYLORSVILLE, UT 84118
602103 ATM º 1.17 SW 0 $0
S 4637 W
KEARNS, UT 84118
171117 ELITE HEATING & AIR COND 1.17 SW 4 $664
KEARNS, UT 84118
172101 BR PAINTING LLC 1.17 SW 3 $498
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
596301 CHANGING FACES 1.17 SW 25 $1,520
KEARNS, UT 84118
999977 HAZTEC OF AMERICA 1.17 SW 0 $0
KEARNS, UT 84118
509313 SCRAP METAL SLC 1.17 SW 3 $2,954
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
078302 VAZQUEZ & FLORES LANDSCAPING 1.17 SW 3 $302
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
671901 T L O R HOLDINGS INC 1.17 SW 3 $1,783
KEARNS, UT 84118
078204 LAWN CARE MVP 1.17 SW 5 $504
KEARNS, UT 84118
481302 ADVANCED NETWORK INSTALLATION 1.17 SW 11 $4,535
S 3300 W
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
171105 911 PLUMBING HEATING & AC 1.17 SW 2 $332
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
171102 STELLAR AIR SYSTEMS 1.17 SW 4 $664
WEST VALLEY CITY, UT 84118
602103 ATM 1.17 SW 0 $0
BEETDIGGER DR
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
161111 SUNDIAL STRIPING LLC 1.17 SW 15 $5,334
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 FRESENIUS MEDICAL 1.17 SW 0 $0
KEARNS, UT 84118
078204 DIRT MONKEYS LANDSCAPING 1.17 SW 5 $504
KEARNS, UT 84118
599992 CLASSY LUMBERJACK BEARD CO 1.17 SW 5 $747
WEST VALLEY CITY, UT 84118
152112 CENTURY COMMUNITIES 1.17 SW 2 $1,020
W HIGHTOWER RD
WEST VALLEY CITY, UT 84118
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 15 of 16
Business Locator
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
SIC
Code Business Name Franchise
Distance From
Site in Miles Employees        Sales ($000)
152112 CENTURY COMMUNITIES-COPPER RDG 1.17 SW 2 $1,020
W HIGHTOWER RD
WEST VALLEY CITY, UT 84118
521126 READY MADE BUILDERS 1.17 NW 100 $33,781
W 4700 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
571211 CONCEPT KITCHENS 1.17 NW 3 $808
W 4700 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
999977 DAF LP 1.17 NW 0 $0
W 4700 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
811103 D FIRM CO 1.17 NW 4 $811
W 4700 S
SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84118
602103 ATM ÍºCÿU 1.17 NE 0 $0
S 4015 W
TAYLORSVILLE, UT 84129
Data Note: Businesses are listed based on their proximity to the study area location.  A maximum of 250 records can be displayed on one report. Data on the Business 
Locations report is based on the businesses whose location falls within the area of study. Total Sales, Total Daytime Business Population, Total Number of Businesses, and 
the Daytime Business (pop)/Residential Ratio are calculated using the collection of business points that fall within the area of study.
Source: Copyright 2020 Infogroup and Esri. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020. Infogroup Business Locations (Apr 2020).
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 16 of 16
Business Summary
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Data for all businesses in area Kearns metro ...
Total Businesses: 240
Total Employees: 3,416
Total Residential Population: 36,867
Employee/Residential Population Ratio (per 100 Residents) 9
Businesses Employees
by SIC Codes Number Percent Number Percent
Agriculture & Mining 4 1.7% 14 0.4%
Construction 24 10.0% 102 3.0%
Manufacturing 7 2.9% 110 3.2%
Transportation 6 2.5% 53 1.6%
Communication 5 2.1% 23 0.7%
Utility 1 0.4% 1 0.0%
Wholesale Trade 1 0.4% 4 0.1%
Retail Trade Summary 60 25.0% 964 28.2%
Home Improvement 11 4.6% 156 4.6%
General Merchandise Stores 1 0.4% 30 0.9%
Food Stores 12 5.0% 436 12.8%
Auto Dealers, Gas Stations, Auto Aftermarket 3 1.2% 41 1.2%
Apparel & Accessory Stores 2 0.8% 3 0.1%
Furniture & Home Furnishings 5 2.1% 25 0.7%
Eating & Drinking Places 15 6.2% 207 6.1%
Miscellaneous Retail 11 4.6% 66 1.9%
Finance, Insurance, Real Estate Summary 15 6.2% 74 2.2%
Banks, Savings & Lending Institutions 9 3.8% 36 1.1%
Securities Brokers 2 0.8% 6 0.2%
Insurance Carriers & Agents 1 0.4% 20 0.6%
Real Estate, Holding, Other Investment Offices 3 1.2% 12 0.4%
Services Summary 95 39.6% 1,976 57.8%
Hotels & Lodging 0 0.0% 0 0.0%
Automotive Services 10 4.2% 40 1.2%
Motion Pictures & Amusements 15 6.2% 882 25.8%
Health Services 4 1.7% 71 2.1%
Legal Services 2 0.8% 8 0.2%
Education Institutions & Libraries 14 5.8% 699 20.5%
Other Services 50 20.8% 276 8.1%
Government 5 2.1% 95 2.8%
Unclassified Establishments 17 7.1% 0 0.0%
Totals 240 100.0% 3,416 100.0%
Source:  Copyright 2020 Infogroup, Inc. All rights reserved. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020.
Date Note: Data on the Business Summary report is calculated using Esri’s Data allocation method which uses census block groups to allocate business summary data to custom areas.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 2
Business Summary
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Businesses Employees
by NAICS Codes Number Percent Number Percent
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting 0 0.0% 0 0.0%
Mining 0 0.0% 0 0.0%
Utilities 0 0.0% 0 0.0%
Construction 26 10.8% 106 3.1%
Manufacturing 10 4.2% 125 3.7%
Wholesale Trade 1 0.4% 4 0.1%
Retail Trade 42 17.5% 744 21.8%
Motor Vehicle & Parts Dealers 2 0.8% 37 1.1%
Furniture & Home Furnishings Stores 1 0.4% 1 0.0%
Electronics & Appliance Stores 2 0.8% 12 0.4%
Bldg Material & Garden Equipment & Supplies Dealers 11 4.6% 156 4.6%
Food & Beverage Stores 12 5.0% 436 12.8%
Health & Personal Care Stores 3 1.2% 49 1.4%
Gasoline Stations 1 0.4% 4 0.1%
Clothing & Clothing Accessories Stores 2 0.8% 3 0.1%
Sport Goods, Hobby, Book, & Music Stores 1 0.4% 4 0.1%
General Merchandise Stores 1 0.4% 30 0.9%
Miscellaneous Store Retailers 3 1.2% 11 0.3%
Nonstore Retailers 3 1.2% 1 0.0%
Transportation & Warehousing 3 1.2% 46 1.3%
Information 7 2.9% 41 1.2%
Finance & Insurance 13 5.4% 63 1.8%
Central Bank/Credit Intermediation & Related Activities 10 4.2% 37 1.1%
Securities, Commodity Contracts & Other Financial 
Investments & Other Related Activities
2 0.8% 6 0.2%
Insurance Carriers & Related Activities; Funds, Trusts & 
Other Financial Vehicles
1 0.4% 20 0.6%
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing 11 4.6% 19 0.6%
Professional, Scientific & Tech Services 11 4.6% 43 1.3%
Legal Services 2 0.8% 8 0.2%
Management of Companies & Enterprises 0 0.0% 0 0.0%
Administrative & Support & Waste Management & Remediation 
Services
6 2.5% 17 0.5%
Educational Services 14 5.8% 684 20.0%
Health Care & Social Assistance 6 2.5% 158 4.6%
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation 9 3.8% 894 26.2%
Accommodation & Food Services 15 6.2% 207 6.1%
Accommodation 0 0.0% 0 0.0%
Food Services & Drinking Places 15 6.2% 207 6.1%
Other Services (except Public Administration) 44 18.3% 170 5.0%
Automotive Repair & Maintenance 10 4.2% 40 1.2%
Public Administration 5 2.1% 95 2.8%
Unclassified Establishments 17 7.1% 0 0.0%
Total 240 100.0% 3,416 100.0%
Source:  Copyright 2020 Infogroup, Inc. All rights reserved. Esri Total Residential Population forecasts for 2020.
Date Note: Data on the Business Summary report is calculated using Esri’s Data allocation method which uses census block groups to allocate business summary data to custom areas.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 2 of 2
Community Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
Population Summary 
2000 Total Population 33,606
2010 Total Population 35,786
2020 Total Population 36,867
2020 Group Quarters 14
2025 Total Population 38,307
2020-2025 Annual Rate 0.77%
2020 Total Daytime Population 23,072
Workers 4,088
Residents 18,984
Household Summary
2000 Households 9,188
2000 Average Household Size 3.65
2010 Households 9,795
2010 Average Household Size 3.65
2020 Households 10,067
2020 Average Household Size 3.66
2025 Households 10,431
2025 Average Household Size 3.67
2020-2025 Annual Rate 0.71%
2010 Families 8,129
2010 Average Family Size 3.91
2020 Families 8,244
2020 Average Family Size 3.93
2025 Families 8,527
2025 Average Family Size 3.94
2020-2025 Annual Rate 0.68%
Housing Unit Summary
2000 Housing Units 9,369
Owner Occupied Housing Units 87.0%
Renter Occupied Housing Units 11.1%
Vacant Housing Units 1.9%
2010 Housing Units 10,184
Owner Occupied Housing Units 78.7%
Renter Occupied Housing Units 17.5%
Vacant Housing Units 3.8%
2020 Housing Units 10,386
Owner Occupied Housing Units 77.9%
Renter Occupied Housing Units 19.0%
Vacant Housing Units 3.1%
2025 Housing Units 10,748
Owner Occupied Housing Units 78.4%
Renter Occupied Housing Units 18.6%
Vacant Housing Units 2.9%
Median Household Income
2020 $62,370
2025 $67,917
Median Home Value
2020 $213,575
2025 $237,150
Per Capita Income
2020 $19,858
2025 $22,117
Median Age
2010 28.2
2020 30.3
2025 30.7
Data Note: Household population includes persons not residing in group quarters.  Average Household Size is the household population divided by total households.  
Persons in families include the householder and persons related to the householder by birth, marriage, or adoption.  Per Capita Income represents the income received by 
all persons aged 15 years and over divided by the total population.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 7
Community Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
2020 Households by Income
Household Income Base 10,067
<$15,000 3.5%
$15,000 - $24,999 5.5%
$25,000 - $34,999 8.8%
$35,000 - $49,999 16.1%
$50,000 - $74,999 26.4%
$75,000 - $99,999 19.3%
$100,000 - $149,999 14.6%
$150,000 - $199,999 5.1%
$200,000+ 0.7%
Average Household Income $72,581
2025 Households by Income
Household Income Base 10,431
<$15,000 2.8%
$15,000 - $24,999 4.5%
$25,000 - $34,999 7.8%
$35,000 - $49,999 14.7%
$50,000 - $74,999 25.3%
$75,000 - $99,999 19.5%
$100,000 - $149,999 17.5%
$150,000 - $199,999 6.9%
$200,000+ 0.9%
Average Household Income $81,054
2020 Owner Occupied Housing Units by Value
Total 8,090
<$50,000 5.2%
$50,000 - $99,999 1.5%
$100,000 - $149,999 13.3%
$150,000 - $199,999 21.5%
$200,000 - $249,999 31.3%
$250,000 - $299,999 13.4%
$300,000 - $399,999 8.0%
$400,000 - $499,999 0.3%
$500,000 - $749,999 3.2%
$750,000 - $999,999 0.7%
$1,000,000 - $1,499,999 1.2%
$1,500,000 - $1,999,999 0.2%
$2,000,000 + 0.2%
Average Home Value $242,908
2025 Owner Occupied Housing Units by Value
Total 8,430
<$50,000 4.0%
$50,000 - $99,999 0.9%
$100,000 - $149,999 6.3%
$150,000 - $199,999 15.4%
$200,000 - $249,999 31.4%
$250,000 - $299,999 17.4%
$300,000 - $399,999 12.6%
$400,000 - $499,999 0.8%
$500,000 - $749,999 6.6%
$750,000 - $999,999 1.8%
$1,000,000 - $1,499,999 2.1%
$1,500,000 - $1,999,999 0.3%
$2,000,000 + 0.3%
Average Home Value $297,782
Data Note: Income represents the preceding year, expressed in current dollars.  Household income includes wage and salary earnings, interest dividends, net rents, 
pensions, SSI and welfare payments, child support, and alimony.  
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 2 of 7
Community Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
2010 Population by Age
Total 35,786
0 - 4 10.0%
5 - 9 10.0%
10 - 14 9.1%
15 - 24 15.2%
25 - 34 17.8%
35 - 44 13.3%
45 - 54 11.5%
55 - 64 7.4%
65 - 74 2.9%
75 - 84 2.3%
85 + 0.5%
18 + 65.7%
2020 Population by Age
Total 36,867
0 - 4 9.5%
5 - 9 9.2%
10 - 14 8.4%
15 - 24 14.0%
25 - 34 16.8%
35 - 44 15.2%
45 - 54 10.3%
55 - 64 8.8%
65 - 74 5.3%
75 - 84 1.7%
85 + 0.8%
18 + 68.3%
2025 Population by Age
Total 38,307
0 - 4 9.5%
5 - 9 9.3%
10 - 14 9.1%
15 - 24 13.6%
25 - 34 16.3%
35 - 44 15.6%
45 - 54 10.6%
55 - 64 7.5%
65 - 74 5.8%
75 - 84 2.2%
85 + 0.6%
18 + 67.6%
2010 Population by Sex
Males 18,099
Females 17,687
2020 Population by Sex
Males 18,622
Females 18,245
2025 Population by Sex
Males 19,377
Females 18,930
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 3 of 7
Community Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
2010 Population by Race/Ethnicity
Total 35,786
White Alone 70.3%
Black Alone 1.4%
American Indian Alone 1.4%
Asian Alone 2.1%
Pacific Islander Alone 2.6%
Some Other Race Alone 18.7%
Two or More Races 3.5%
Hispanic Origin 32.8%
Diversity Index 72.3
2020 Population by Race/Ethnicity
Total 36,867
White Alone 66.1%
Black Alone 1.7%
American Indian Alone 1.5%
Asian Alone 2.9%
Pacific Islander Alone 2.9%
Some Other Race Alone 20.9%
Two or More Races 4.0%
Hispanic Origin 36.0%
Diversity Index 76.3
2025 Population by Race/Ethnicity
Total 38,306
White Alone 63.6%
Black Alone 1.9%
American Indian Alone 1.6%
Asian Alone 3.4%
Pacific Islander Alone 3.0%
Some Other Race Alone 22.3%
Two or More Races 4.2%
Hispanic Origin 38.0%
Diversity Index 78.4
2010 Population by Relationship and Household Type
Total 35,786
In Households 100.0%
In Family Households 93.3%
Householder 22.7%
Spouse 16.5%
Child 41.5%
Other relative 8.0%
Nonrelative 4.6%
In Nonfamily Households 6.7%
In Group Quarters 0.0%
Institutionalized Population 0.0%
Noninstitutionalized Population 0.0%
Data Note: Persons of Hispanic Origin may be of any race.  The Diversity Index measures the probability that two people from the same area will be from different race/
ethnic groups.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 4 of 7
Community Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
2020 Population 25+ by Educational Attainment
Total 21,715
Less than 9th Grade 8.0%
9th - 12th Grade, No Diploma 12.8%
High School Graduate 28.4%
GED/Alternative Credential 5.6%
Some College, No Degree 23.3%
Associate Degree 10.1%
Bachelor's Degree 9.2%
Graduate/Professional Degree 2.7%
2020 Population 15+ by Marital Status
Total 26,868
Never Married 33.8%
Married 53.5%
Widowed 3.6%
Divorced 9.1%
2020 Civilian Population 16+ in Labor Force
Civilian Population 16+ 19,932
   Population 16+ Employed 91.6%
   Population 16+ Unemployment rate 8.4%
Population 16-24 Employed 15.6%
Population 16-24 Unemployment rate 15.9%
Population 25-54 Employed 69.4%
Population 25-54 Unemployment rate 7.0%
Population 55-64 Employed 11.7%
Population 55-64 Unemployment rate 6.6%
Population 65+ Employed 3.3%
Population 65+ Unemployment rate 6.0%
2020 Employed Population 16+ by Industry
Total 18,255
   Agriculture/Mining 1.6%
   Construction 10.7%
   Manufacturing 16.5%
   Wholesale Trade 2.5%
   Retail Trade 11.8%
   Transportation/Utilities 7.0%
   Information 2.9%
   Finance/Insurance/Real Estate 7.8%
   Services 37.2%
   Public Administration 2.1%
2020 Employed Population 16+ by Occupation
Total 18,255
   White Collar 49.7%
      Management/Business/Financial 9.3%
      Professional 12.8%
      Sales 7.1%
      Administrative Support 20.5%
   Services 14.5%
   Blue Collar 35.9%
      Farming/Forestry/Fishing 0.0%
      Construction/Extraction 9.2%
      Installation/Maintenance/Repair 4.8%
      Production 11.9%
      Transportation/Material Moving 10.0%
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 5 of 7
Community Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
2010 Households by Type
Total 9,795
Households with 1 Person 12.4%
Households with 2+ People 87.6%
Family Households 83.0%
Husband-wife Families 60.4%
With Related Children 38.0%
Other Family (No Spouse Present) 22.6%
Other Family with Male Householder 8.0%
With Related Children 5.3%
Other Family with Female Householder 14.5%
With Related Children 9.9%
Nonfamily Households 4.6%
All Households with Children 54.3%
Multigenerational Households 10.2%
Unmarried Partner Households 6.9%
Male-female 6.1%
Same-sex 0.8%
2010 Households by Size
Total 9,795
1 Person Household 12.4%
2 Person Household 22.6%
3 Person Household 17.3%
4 Person Household 18.2%
5 Person Household 12.9%
6 Person Household 8.0%
7 + Person Household 8.6%
2010 Households by Tenure and Mortgage Status
Total 9,795
Owner Occupied 81.8%
Owned with a Mortgage/Loan 70.4%
Owned Free and Clear 11.5%
Renter Occupied 18.2%
2020 Affordability, Mortgage and Wealth
Housing Affordability Index 165
Percent of Income for Mortgage 14.3%
Wealth Index 60
2010 Housing Units By Urban/ Rural Status
Total Housing Units 10,184
Housing Units Inside Urbanized Area 100.0%
Housing Units Inside Urbanized Cluster 0.0%
Rural Housing Units 0.0%
2010 Population By Urban/ Rural Status
Total Population  35,786
Population Inside Urbanized Area 100.0%
Housing Units Inside Urbanized Cluster 0.0%
Rural Population 0.0%
Data Note: Households with children include any households with people under age 18, related or not.  Multigenerational households are families with 3 or more parent-
child relationships. Unmarried partner households are usually classified as nonfamily households unless there is another member of the household related to the 
householder. Multigenerational and unmarried partner households are reported only to the tract level. Esri estimated block group data, which is used to estimate 
polygons or non-standard geography.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 6 of 7
Community Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
Top 3 Tapestry Segments
1. American Dreamers (7C)
2. Up and Coming Families (7A)
3. Home Improvement (4B)
2020 Consumer Spending 
Apparel & Services:  Total $ $17,951,080
Average Spent $1,783.16
Spending Potential Index 83
Education:  Total $ $13,019,680
Average Spent $1,293.30
Spending Potential Index 72
Entertainment/Recreation:  Total $ $25,848,044
Average Spent $2,567.60
Spending Potential Index 79
Food at Home:  Total $ $43,534,885
Average Spent $4,324.51
Spending Potential Index 81
Food Away from Home:  Total $ $31,530,313
Average Spent $3,132.05
Spending Potential Index 83
Health Care:  Total $ $46,534,424
Average Spent $4,622.47
Spending Potential Index 80
HH Furnishings & Equipment:  Total $ $18,433,242
Average Spent $1,831.06
Spending Potential Index 84
Personal Care Products & Services: Total $ $7,750,357
Average Spent $769.88
Spending Potential Index 84
Shelter:  Total $ $157,725,980
Average Spent $15,667.62
Spending Potential Index 81
Support Payments/Cash Contributions/Gifts in Kind: Total $ $19,745,025
Average Spent $1,961.36
Spending Potential Index 84
Travel:  Total $ $19,482,949
Average Spent $1,935.33
Spending Potential Index 80
Vehicle Maintenance & Repairs: Total $ $9,333,745
Average Spent $927.16
Spending Potential Index 80
Data Note: Consumer spending shows the amount spent on a variety of goods and services by households that reside in the area.  Expenditures are shown by broad 
budget categories that are not mutually exclusive.  Consumer spending does not equal business revenue. Total and Average Amount Spent Per Household represent annual 
figures. The Spending Potential Index represents the amount spent in the area relative to a national average of 100.
Source: Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2017 and 2018 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics. Esri.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 7 of 7
Disposable Income Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
2020-2025 2020-2025
Census 2010 2020 2025 Change Annual Rate
Population 35,786 36,867 38,307 1,440 0.77%
Median Age 28.2 30.3 30.7 0.4 0.26%
Households 9,795 10,067 10,431 364 0.71%
Average Household Size 3.65 3.66 3.67 0.01 0.05%
2020 Households by Disposable Income Number Percent
Total 10,069 100.0%
<$15,000 452 4.5%
$15,000-$24,999 738 7.3%
$25,000-$34,999 1,262 12.5%
$35,000-$49,999 2,099 20.8%
$50,000-$74,999 2,914 28.9%
$75,000-$99,999 1,440 14.3%
$100,000-$149,999 1,080 10.7%
$150,000-$199,999 44 0.4%
$200,000+ 40 0.4%
Median Disposable Income $52,538
Average Disposable Income $60,191
Number of Households
2020 Disposable Income by Age of Householder <25 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 65-74 75+
Total 320 2,184 2,442 1,802 1,715 1,048 555
<$15,000 16 85 100 64 77 64 46
$15,000-$24,999 43 104 114 90 125 103 158
$25,000-$34,999 47 248 226 176 169 220 175
$35,000-$49,999 75 494 399 319 446 275 91
$50,000-$74,999 91 778 660 558 514 264 49
$75,000-$99,999 35 203 585 306 224 70 17
$100,000-$149,999 12 265 343 257 151 35 17
$150,000-$199,999 0 2 8 22 4 7 0
$200,000+ 1 5 7 10 5 10 2
Median Disposable Income $44,510 $52,959 $61,562 $58,159 $51,114 $40,827 $28,034
Average Disposable Income $50,154 $60,511 $67,649 $67,399 $58,296 $49,129 $35,565
Data Note: Disposable Income is after-tax household income. Disposable income forecasts are based on the Current Population Survey, U.S. Census Bureau. Detail may 
not sum to totals due to rounding
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 1
0 0 . 2 0 . 4
m i
D o m in a n t  T a p e s t r y  M a p
K e a r n s  M e t r o  T o w n s h ip ,  U T P r e p a r e d  b y  E s r i
K e a r n s  M e t r o  T o w n s h ip ,  U T  ( 4 9 4 0 4 7 0 )
G e o g r a p h y :  P la c e
S o u r c e :  E s r i
J u ly  0 2 ,  2 0 2 0
© 2 0 2 0  E s r i P a g e  1  o f  2
D o m in a n t  T a p e s t r y  M a p
K e a r n s  M e t r o  T o w n s h ip ,  U T P r e p a r e d  b y  E s r i
K e a r n s  M e t r o  T o w n s h ip ,  U T  ( 4 9 4 0 4 7 0 )
G e o g r a p h y :  P la c e
T a p e s t r y  S e g m e n t a t i o n
T a p e s t r y  S e g m e n t a t io n  r e p r e s e n t s  t h e  la t e s t  g e n e r a t io n  o f  m a r k e t  s e g m e n t a t io n  s y s t e m s  t h a t  b e g a n  o v e r  3 0  y e a r s  a g o .  T h e
6 8 - s e g m e n t  T a p e s t r y  S e g m e n t a t io n  s y s t e m  c la s s if ie s  U . S .  n e ig h b o r h o o d s  b a s e d  o n  t h e ir  s o c io e c o n o m ic  a n d  d e m o g r a p h ic
c o m p o s it io n .  E a c h  s e g m e n t  is  id e n t if ie d  b y  it s  t w o - d ig it  S e g m e n t  C o d e .  M a t c h  t h e  t w o - d ig it  s e g m e n t  la b e ls  o n  t h e  m a p  t o  t h e
lis t  b e lo w .   C lic k  e a c h  s e g m e n t  b e lo w  f o r  a  d e t a ile d  d e s c r ip t io n .
S o u r c e :  E s r i
J u ly  0 2 ,  2 0 2 0
© 2 0 2 0  E s r i P a g e  2  o f  2
S e g m e n t  1 A  ( T o p  T ie r ) S e g m e n t  8 C  ( B r ig h t  Y o u n g  P r o f e s s io n a ls )
S e g m e n t  1 B  ( P r o f e s s io n a l P r id e )S e g m e n t  8 D  ( D o w n t o w n  M e lt in g  P o t )
S e g m e n t  1 C  ( B o o m b u r b s ) S e g m e n t  8 E  ( F r o n t  P o r c h e s )
S e g m e n t  1 D  ( S a v v y  S u b u r b a n it e s )S e g m e n t  8 F  ( O ld  a n d  N e w c o m e r s )
S e g m e n t  1 E  ( E x u r b a n it e s ) S e g m e n t  8 G  ( H a r d s c r a b b le  R o a d )
S e g m e n t  2 A  ( U r b a n  C h ic ) S e g m e n t  9 A  ( S ilv e r  &  G o ld )
S e g m e n t  2 B  ( P le a s a n t v ille ) S e g m e n t  9 B  ( G o ld e n  Y e a r s )
S e g m e n t  2 C  ( P a c if ic  H e ig h t s ) S e g m e n t  9 C  ( T h e  E ld e r s )
S e g m e n t  2 D  ( E n t e r p r is in g  P r o f e s s io n a ls )S e g m e n t  9 D  ( S e n io r  E s c a p e s )
S e g m e n t  3 A  ( L a p t o p s  a n d  L a t t e s )S e g m e n t  9 E  ( R e t ir e m e n t  C o m m u n it ie s )
S e g m e n t  3 B  ( M e t r o  R e n t e r s ) S e g m e n t  9 F  ( S o c ia l S e c u r it y  S e t )
S e g m e n t  3 C  ( T r e n d s e t t e r s ) S e g m e n t  1 0 A  ( S o u t h e r n  S a t e llit e s )
S e g m e n t  4 A  ( S o c c e r  M o m s ) S e g m e n t  1 0 B  ( R o o t e d  R u r a l)
S e g m e n t  4 B  ( H o m e  I m p r o v e m e n t )S e g m e n t  1 0 C  ( D in e r s  &  M in e r s )
S e g m e n t  4 C  ( M id d le b u r g ) S e g m e n t  1 0 D  ( D o w n  t h e  R o a d )
S e g m e n t  5 A  ( C o m f o r t a b le  E m p t y  N e s t e r s )S e g m e n t  1 0 E  ( R u r a l B y p a s s e s )
S e g m e n t  5 B  ( I n  S t y le ) S e g m e n t  1 1 A  ( C it y  S t r iv e r s )
S e g m e n t  5 C  ( P a r k s  a n d  R e c ) S e g m e n t  1 1 B  ( Y o u n g  a n d  R e s t le s s )
S e g m e n t  5 D  ( R u s t b e lt  T r a d it io n s )S e g m e n t  1 1 C  ( M e t r o  F u s io n )
S e g m e n t  5 E  ( M id lif e  C o n s t a n t s ) S e g m e n t  1 1 D  ( S e t  t o  I m p r e s s )
S e g m e n t  6 A  ( G r e e n  A c r e s ) S e g m e n t  1 1 E  ( C it y  C o m m o n s )
S e g m e n t  6 B  ( S a lt  o f  t h e  E a r t h ) S e g m e n t  1 2 A  ( F a m ily  F o u n d a t io n s )
S e g m e n t  6 C  ( T h e  G r e a t  O u t d o o r s )S e g m e n t  1 2 B  ( T r a d it io n a l L iv in g )
S e g m e n t  6 D  ( P r a ir ie  L iv in g ) S e g m e n t  1 2 C  ( S m a ll T o w n  S im p lic it y )
S e g m e n t  6 E  ( R u r a l R e s o r t  D w e lle r s )S e g m e n t  1 2 D  ( M o d e s t  I n c o m e  H o m e s )
S e g m e n t  6 F  ( H e a r t la n d  C o m m u n it ie s )S e g m e n t  1 3 A  ( I n t e r n a t io n a l M a r k e t p la c e )
S e g m e n t  7 A  ( U p  a n d  C o m in g  F a m ilie s )S e g m e n t  1 3 B  ( L a s  C a s a s )
S e g m e n t  7 B  ( U r b a n  V illa g e s ) S e g m e n t  1 3 C  ( N e W e s t  R e s id e n t s )
S e g m e n t  7 C  ( A m e r ic a n  D r e a m e r s )S e g m e n t  1 3 D  ( F r e s h  A m b it io n s )
S e g m e n t  7 D  ( B a r r io s  U r b a n o s ) S e g m e n t  1 3 E  ( H ig h  R is e  R e n t e r s )
S e g m e n t  7 E  ( V a lle y  G r o w e r s ) S e g m e n t  1 4 A  ( M ilit a r y  P r o x im it y )
S e g m e n t  7 F  ( S o u t h w e s t e r n  F a m ilie s )S e g m e n t  1 4 B  ( C o lle g e  T o w n s )
S e g m e n t  8 A  ( C it y  L ig h t s ) S e g m e n t  1 4 C  ( D o r m s  t o  D ip lo m a s )
S e g m e n t  8 B  ( E m e r a ld  C it y ) S e g m e n t  1 5  ( U n c la s s if ie d )
Electronics and Internet Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Demographic Summary 2020 2025
Population 36,867 38,307
Population 18+ 25,180 25,879
Households 10,067 10,431
Median Household Income $62,370 $67,917
Expected
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults or HHs Percent MPI
Own any tablet 12,865 51.1% 102
Own any e-reader 2,274 9.0% 94
Own e-reader/tablet: iPad 6,800 27.0% 92
Own e-reader/tablet: Amazon Kindle 4,088 16.2% 101
Own any portable MP3 player 4,136 16.4% 103
Own portable MP3 player: Apple iPod 2,929 11.6% 98
Own wearable tech: Apple Watch 1,486 5.9% 105
Own wearable tech: Fitbit 2,415 9.6% 90
Own digital camcorder  1,950 7.7% 107
Own digital point & shoot camera/camcorder 1,389 5.5% 65
Own digital SLR camera/camcorder 1,769 7.0% 92
Own 35mm camera/camcorder 965 3.8% 72
Own telephoto/zoom lens 784 3.1% 77
Own wide-angle lens 595 2.4% 73
Own a selfie stick 1,284 5.1% 106
Printed digital photos in last 12 months 5,401 21.4% 98
Use a computer at work 10,484 41.6% 98
Use desktop computer at work 5,199 20.6% 94
Use laptop/notebook at work 4,842 19.2% 99
HH owns a computer 7,439 73.9% 101
HH purchased computer in last 12 months 1,047 10.4% 102
HH owns desktop computer 3,669 36.4% 104
HH owns laptop/notebook 5,784 57.5% 100
HH with child (under 18 yrs) using home computer 1,489 14.8% 120
HH owns any Apple/Mac brand computer 1,791 17.8% 93
HH owns any PC/non-Apple brand computer 6,346 63.0% 104
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 5
Electronics and Internet Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults or HHs Percent MPI
HH purchased most recent computer 1-2 years ago 1,443 14.3% 92
HH purchased most recent computer 3-4 years ago 1,340 13.3% 86
HH purchased most recent computer 5+ years ago 1,000 9.9% 85
HH purchased most recent computer in a store 3,394 33.7% 95
HH purchased most recent computer online 1,135 11.3% 80
HH spent $1-499 on most recent home computer   1,313 13.0% 89
HH spent $500-$999 on most recent home computer 1,506 15.0% 93
HH spent $1000-$1499 on most recent home computer 871 8.7% 89
HH spent $1500-$1999 on most recent home computer 351 3.5% 78
HH spent $2000+ on most recent home computer 326 3.2% 80
HH owns webcam 1,765 17.5% 109
HH owns wireless router 2,266 22.5% 90
HH owns all-in-one printer (print copy scan) 3,976 39.5% 102
HH owns software: accounting 455 4.5% 86
HH owns software: communications/fax 420 4.2% 99
HH owns software: database/filing 384 3.8% 79
HH owns software: desktop publishing 566 5.6% 88
HH owns software: education/training 866 8.6% 105
HH owns software: entertainment/games 1,586 15.8% 100
HH owns software: personal finance/tax prep 1,002 10.0% 88
HH owns software: presentation graphics 437 4.3% 81
HH owns software: multimedia 1,041 10.3% 100
HH owns software: networking 1,009 10.0% 100
HH owns software: online meeting/conference 342 3.4% 88
HH owns software: online/remote backup 352 3.5% 84
HH owns software: security/anti-virus 1,826 18.1% 95
HH owns software: spreadsheet 1,807 17.9% 86
HH owns software: utility 417 4.1% 98
HH owns software: word processing 2,425 24.1% 89
HH owns CD player 1,030 10.2% 80
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 2 of 5
Electronics and Internet Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults or HHs Percent MPI
HH owns portable GPS device 1,760 17.5% 86
HH owns headphones (ear buds) 3,935 39.1% 96
HH owns noise reduction headphones 1,156 11.5% 105
HH owns Bluetooth/wireless headphones 2,074 20.6% 109
HH owns home theater/entertainment system 751 7.5% 89
HH owns 1 TV 1,977 19.6% 92
HH owns 2 TVs 2,509 24.9% 95
HH owns 3 TVs 2,183 21.7% 103
HH owns 4+ TVs 1,828 18.2% 108
HH owns LCD TV 2,287 22.7% 98
HH owns LED TV 3,230 32.1% 91
HH owns plasma TV 1,284 12.8% 106
HH has 3D TV 447 4.4% 94
HH has HDTV 3,799 37.7% 88
HH has 4K Ultra HDTV 1,227 12.2% 102
HH has Internet connectable TV 2,988 29.7% 94
HH owns small screen TV (<27 in) 1,138 11.3% 83
HH owns medium screen TV (27-35 in) 2,688 26.7% 88
HH owns large screen TV (36-42 in) 3,189 31.7% 99
HH owns XLarge screen TV (43-54 in) 2,593 25.8% 93
HH owns XXL screen TV (55 in+) 3,087 30.7% 116
HH most recent TV purch: small screen (<27 in) 564 5.6% 101
HH most recent TV purch: medium screen (27-35 in) 1,435 14.3% 91
HH most recent TV purch: large screen (36-42 in) 1,767 17.6% 95
HH most recent TV purch: Xlarge screen (43-54 in) 1,476 14.7% 83
HH most recent TV purch: XXL screen (55 in+) 2,496 24.8% 114
HH owns any internet video device for TV 2,859 28.4% 103
HH owns internet device for TV - Amazon Fire 1,276 12.7% 112
HH owns internet device for TV - Apple TV 559 5.6% 93
HH owns internet device for TV - Google Chromecast 496 4.9% 90
HH owns internet device for TV - Roku 1,231 12.2% 104
HH purchased video game system in last 12 months 973 9.7% 114
HH owns video game system: handheld 1,181 11.7% 116
HH owns video game system: attached to TV/computer 4,899 48.7% 119
HH owns video game system: Nintendo DS/Lite DSI/XL 489 4.9% 108
HH owns video game system: Nintendo 3DS 389 3.9% 123
HH owns video game system: Nintendo Switch 381 3.8% 95
HH owns video game system: Nintendo Wii 1,336 13.3% 110
HH owns video game system: Nintendo Wii U 411 4.1% 125
HH owns video game system: PlayStation 2 (PS2) 546 5.4% 103
HH owns video game system: PlayStation 3 (PS3) 1,125 11.2% 127
HH owns video game system: Playstation 4 (PS 4) 1,841 18.3% 124
HH owns video game system: Xbox 360 1,478 14.7% 112
HH owns video game system: Xbox One 1,617 16.1% 125
HH purchased 5+ video games in last 12 months 663 6.6% 124
HH spent $101+ on video games in last 12 months 892 8.9% 120
Have access to Internet at home 23,260 92.4% 102
Connect to Internet at home via broadband/high speed 22,932 91.1% 102
Connection to Internet at home: via cable modem 12,932 51.4% 110
Connection to Internet at home: via DSL 2,104 8.4% 84
Connection to Internet at home: via fiber optic 3,828 15.2% 99
Connect to Internet at home via satellite 1,000 4.0% 100
Spend 10+ hrs online (excl email/IM time) daily 1,747 6.9% 105
Spend 5-9.9 hrs online (excl email/IM time) daily 4,582 18.2% 112
Spend 2-4.9 hrs online (excl email/IM time) daily 6,905 27.4% 108
Spend 1-1.9 hrs online (excl email/IM time) daily 4,279 17.0% 95
Spend 0.5-0.9 hrs online (excl email/IM time) daily 2,572 10.2% 98
Spend <0.5 hrs online (excl email/IM time) daily 1,497 5.9% 91
Used Internet in last 30 days 22,604 89.8% 103
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 3 of 5
Electronics and Internet Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults or HHs Percent MPI
Used Internet/30 days: at home 21,742 86.3% 103
Used Internet/30 days: at work 12,327 49.0% 107
Used Internet/30 days: at school/library 3,529 14.0% 103
Used Internet/30 days: not hm/work/school/library 10,312 41.0% 105
Accessed Internet in last 30 days using computer 17,055 67.7% 100
Accessed Internet in last 30 days using cell phone 21,162 84.0% 106
Accessed Internet in last 30 days using tablet 7,741 30.7% 92
Accessed Internet in last 30 days w gaming console 2,712 10.8% 115
Accessed Internet in last 30 days using television 5,129 20.4% 101
Used tablet last 30 days for video call 1,170 4.6% 99
Internet last 30 days: used email 19,721 78.3% 105
Internet last 30 days: used IM 18,322 72.8% 106
Internet last 30 days: made personal purchase 13,180 52.3% 97
Internet last 30 days: made business purchase 3,049 12.1% 87
Internet last 30 days: paid bills online 15,508 61.6% 111
Internet last 30 days: took online class 2,589 10.3% 114
Internet last 30 days: looked for employment 4,251 16.9% 109
Internet last 30 days: traded/tracked Investments 2,734 10.9% 81
Internet last 30 days: made travel plans 5,607 22.3% 94
Internet last 30 days: obtained auto info 3,477 13.8% 109
Internet last 30 days: obtained financial info 7,993 31.7% 102
Internet last 30 days: obtained medical info 8,138 32.3% 105
Internet last 30 days: checked movie listing/times 6,188 24.6% 107
Internet last 30 days: obtained latest news 11,633 46.2% 99
Internet last 30 days: obtained parenting info 1,898 7.5% 113
Internet last 30 days: obtained real estate info 4,194 16.7% 104
Internet last 30 days: obtained sports news/info 7,215 28.7% 93
Internet last 30 days: visited online blog 3,368 13.4% 103
Internet last 30 days: wrote online blog 531 2.1% 113
Internet last 30 days: used online dating website 784 3.1% 110
Internet last 30 days: used video chat 7,229 28.7% 114
Internet last 30 days: visited a chat room 1,590 6.3% 127
Internet last 30 days: played games online 8,652 34.4% 107
Internet last 30 days: sent greeting card 1,356 5.4% 114
Internet last 30 days: made phone call 10,750 42.7% 123
Internet last 30 days: shared photos via website 9,361 37.2% 107
Internet last 30 days: looked for recipes 10,313 41.0% 101
Internet last 30 days: added video to website 2,660 10.6% 124
Internet last 30 days: downloaded a movie 2,934 11.7% 116
Internet last 30 days: downloaded music 4,767 18.9% 103
Internet last 30 days: downloaded TV program 1,184 4.7% 94
Internet last 30 days: downloaded a video game 3,799 15.1% 119
Internet last 30 days: watched movie online 8,327 33.1% 110
Internet last 30 days: watched TV program online 5,164 20.5% 101
Used online gaming srv/30 days: PlayStation Network 2,245 8.9% 137
Used online gaming srv/30 days: Xbox Live 1,960 7.8% 128
Played Massive Multi-Player Online game/30 days 1,420 5.6% 123
Used Spanish language website/app last 30 days 2,410 9.6% 227
Social Media last 30 days: facebook.com 16,847 66.9% 104
Social media last 30 days: instagram.com 9,197 36.5% 114
Social Media last 30 days: linkedin.com 2,645 10.5% 80
Social Media last 30 days: shutterfly.com 566 2.2% 75
Social Media last 30 days: snapchat.com 6,201 24.6% 113
Social Media last 30 days: tumblr.com 705 2.8% 78
Social Media last 30 days: twitter.com 3,291 13.1% 91
Social Media last 30 days: yelp.com 1,306 5.2% 71
Social Media last 30 days: youtube.com 13,612 54.1% 104
Social Media last 30 days: pinterest.com 5,051 20.1% 96
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 4 of 5
Electronics and Internet Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults or HHs Percent MPI
Social network: updated status in last 30 days 7,812 31.0% 111
Social network: updated profile in last 30 days 6,302 25.0% 113
Social network: posted picture in last 30 days 12,065 47.9% 105
Social network: posted video in last 30 days 6,783 26.9% 129
Social network: posted link in last 30 days 3,845 15.3% 110
Social network: saw friend`s page in last 30 days 12,378 49.2% 100
Social network: commented on post in last 30 days 12,219 48.5% 105
Social network: posted a blog in last 30 days 804 3.2% 106
Social network: rated a product in last 30 days 2,785 11.1% 115
Social network: sent email message in last 30 days 13,169 52.3% 105
Social network: sent IM in last 30 days 5,637 22.4% 114
Social network: played a game in last 30 days 5,664 22.5% 110
Social network: invited to event in last 30 days 2,842 11.3% 115
Social network: liked something in last 30 days 10,893 43.3% 106
Social network: followed something in last 30 days 6,336 25.2% 104
Social network: clicked on an ad in last 30 days 4,629 18.4% 104
Social network: watched video in last 30 days 14,825 58.9% 112
Social network: posted location in last 30 days 3,146 12.5% 110
Social network: sent real or virtual gift/30 days 563 2.2% 94
Social network: used to keep in touch w/ friends 11,008 43.7% 102
Social network: used to reconnect w/ old friends 4,435 17.6% 116
Social network: used to meet new friends 2,814 11.2% 135
Social network: used to follow friends activities 5,480 21.8% 102
Social network: used to find out about new prod. 2,872 11.4% 125
Social network: used to review prod. or service 2,066 8.2% 127
Social network: used for professional contacts 2,184 8.7% 102
Social network: used to find mutual interests 1,975 7.8% 110
Social network: used to track current events 4,032 16.0% 100
Social network: used to find info on TV or movie 2,470 9.8% 104
Social network: used to find local information 3,047 12.1% 98
Social network: used for gaming 2,360 9.4% 111
Social network: used to support favorite brands 1,668 6.6% 111
Social network: used to get coupons or discounts 2,192 8.7% 114
Social network: used to gain access to VIP events 1,478 5.9% 123
Used website/search engine/30 days: bing.com 2,425 9.6% 100
Used website/search engine/30 days: google.com 21,454 85.2% 104
Used website/search engine/30 days: yahoo.com 6,063 24.1% 120
Used entertainment website/app last 30 days: BuzzFeed 1,656 6.6% 82
Used entertainment website/app last 30 days: Fandango 2,007 8.0% 125
Used news website/app last 30 days: abcnews.com 2,125 8.4% 109
Used news website/app last 30 days: bbc.com 1,294 5.1% 78
Used news website/app last 30 days: cbsnews.com 1,503 6.0% 100
Used news website/app last 30 days: cnn.com 4,454 17.7% 105
Used news website/app last 30 days: foxnews.com 3,621 14.4% 100
Used news website/app last 30 days: huffpost.com 1,653 6.6% 74
Used news website/app last 30 days: nbcnews.com 1,244 4.9% 87
Used news website/app last 30 days: yahoonews.com 2,260 9.0% 115
Used sports website/app last 30 days: ESPN 4,632 18.4% 97
Used sports website/app last 30 days: FoxSports 2,155 8.6% 117
Used sports website/app last 30 days: NBA.com 1,782 7.1% 127
Used sports website/app last 30 days: NFL.com 2,217 8.8% 105
Used website/app last 30 days: PBS 1,010 4.0% 91
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 5 of 5
Financial Expenditures
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Demographic Summary 2020 2025
Population 36,867 38,307
Households 10,067 10,431
Families 8,244 8,527
Median Age 30.3 30.7
Median Household Income $62,370 $67,917
Spending Potential      Average Amount  
Index Total
Assets
Value of Checking/Savings/Money Market Accounts & CDs 75 $13,044.47 $131,318,720
Value of Checking/Savings/Money Market Accounts & CDs (1 year ago) 76 $11,978.39 $120,586,428
Value of Stocks/Bonds/Mutual Funds 77 $18,783.92 $189,097,706
Value of Stocks/Bonds/Mutual Funds (1 year ago) 79 $17,866.31 $179,860,124
Value of Other Financial Assets 76 $6,184.02 $62,254,543
Value of Other Financial Assets (1 year ago) 74 $5,604.93 $56,424,815
Value of Retirement Plans 75 $71,523.44 $720,026,520
Value of Retirement Plans (1 year ago) 74 $61,365.97 $617,771,196
Surrender Value of Whole Life Policies 90 $10,892.22 $109,651,982
Surrender Value of Whole Life Policies (1 year ago) 95 $10,946.46 $110,197,997
Earnings
Interest/Dividends 72 $852.74 $8,584,483
Royalty/Estate/Trust Income 66 $278.57 $2,804,401
Liabilities
Original Mortgage Amount (Owned Home) 99 $13,152.59 $132,407,111
Vehicle Loan Amount (1) 89 $2,609.20 $26,266,847
Value of Credit Card Debt 82 $2,119.44 $21,336,442
Value of Credit Card Debt (1 year ago) 81 $2,015.42 $20,289,240
Value Owed on Student Loans 76 $5,287.96 $53,233,881
Value Owed on Student Loans (1 year ago) 75 $4,911.15 $49,440,562
Value Owed on Non-student Loans 66 $649.21 $6,535,646
Value Owed on Non-student Loans (1 year ago) 65 $470.97 $4,741,211
Owned Dwellings - Special Lump Sum Mortgage Payments 84 $419.93 $4,227,463
Owned Dwellings - Special Assessments 58 $9.25 $93,162
Owned Dwellings - Property Purchase Closing Costs 91 $272.60 $2,744,249
Amount Paid: Interest
Home Mortgage 93 $3,394.79 $34,175,346
Home Equity Loan 72 $22.99 $231,472
Home Equity Line of Credit 70 $88.04 $886,263
New Car/Truck/Van Loan 90 $115.99 $1,167,698
Used Car/Truck/Van Loan 86 $107.70 $1,084,214
Finance/Late/Interest Charges for Credit Cards 79 $328.87 $3,310,697
Finance/Late/Interest Charges for Student Loans 75 $151.39 $1,524,045
Finance/Late/Interest Charges for Non-student Loans 74 $25.49 $256,640
Amount Paid: Principal
Home Mortgage 89 $1,899.76 $19,124,858
Home Equity Loan 70 $42.62 $429,019
Home Equity Line of Credit 64 $207.82 $2,092,155
New Car/Truck/Van Loan 89 $992.45 $9,991,010
Used Car/Truck/Van Loan 86 $803.99 $8,093,766
Checking Account and Banking Service Charges 77 $24.44 $246,002
Data Note: The Spending Potential Index (SPI) is household-based, and represents the amount spent for a product or service relative to a national average of 100.  
(1) Vehicle Loan Amount is the amount of a loan for a car, truck, van, SUV, motor home, boat, camper, motorcycle, motor scooter, moped, plane, snowmobile, dune 
buggy, ATV, or Segway, excluding interest.
Source: Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025; Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2017 and 2018 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 1
House and Home Expenditures
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
2020 Housing Summary 2020 Demographic Summary
Housing Units 10,386 Population 36,867
2020-2025 Percent Change 3.49% Households 10,067
Percent Occupied 96.9% Families 8,244
Percent Owner Households 80.4% Median Age 30.3
Median Home Value $213,575 Median Household Income $62,370
Spending Potential Average Amount
Index Spent Total
Owned Dwellings 84 $11,450.95 $115,276,740
Mortgage Interest 93 $3,394.79 $34,175,346
Mortgage Principal 89 $1,899.76 $19,124,858
Property Taxes 73 $1,960.31 $19,734,398
Homeowners Insurance 84 $474.63 $4,778,085
Ground Rent 93 $63.99 $644,224
Maintenance and Remodeling Services 81 $2,080.07 $20,940,113
Maintenance and Remodeling Materials 78 $431.75 $4,346,459
Property Management and Security 87 $82.40 $829,473
Rented Dwellings 74 $3,857.27 $38,831,109
Rent 74 $3,765.57 $37,908,038
Tenant's Insurance 77 $23.50 $236,605
Maintenance and Repair Services 75 $46.64 $469,507
Maintenance and Repair Materials 66 $21.55 $216,960
Other Lodging 74 $359.41 $3,618,131
Owned Vacation Homes 73 $300.73 $3,027,413
Principal Paid on Home Loans 79 $47.52 $478,402
Closing Costs 72 $19.57 $196,968
Interest Paid on Home Loans 78 $68.77 $692,350
Property Taxes 69 $89.52 $901,220
Homeowners Insurance 65 $9.35 $94,141
Maintenance and Remodeling 71 $49.76 $500,941
Property Management and Security 72 $16.23 $163,391
Housing While Attending School 80 $58.68 $590,718
Household Operations 82 $1,744.54 $17,562,254
Child Care 88 $452.21 $4,552,440
Care for Elderly or Handicapped 62 $37.44 $376,914
Appliance Rental and Repair 84 $19.06 $191,849
Computer Information Services 80 $498.55 $5,018,905
Home Security System Services 95 $40.80 $410,748
Non-Apparel Household Laundry/Dry Cleaning 76 $23.07 $232,217
Housekeeping Services 83 $158.60 $1,596,608
Lawn and Garden 77 $377.70 $3,802,349
Moving/Storage/Freight Express 83 $50.11 $504,487
Installation of Computers 76 $0.27 $2,768
PC Repair (Personal Use) 82 $6.17 $62,161
Reupholstering/Furniture Repair 79 $7.92 $79,776
Termite/Pest Control 92 $36.11 $363,497
Water Softening Services 92 $5.48 $55,120
Internet Services Away from Home 79 $4.26 $42,892
Other Home Services (1) 87 $26.77 $269,525
Data Note: The Spending Potential Index (SPI) is household-based, and represents the amount spent for a product or service relative to a national average of 100. Detail 
may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Source: Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025; Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2017 and 2018 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 3
House and Home Expenditures
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Spending Potential Average Amount
Index Spent Total
Utilities, Fuels, Public Services 82 $4,003.34 $40,301,667
Bottled Gas 54 $27.50 $276,834
Electricity 83 $1,504.61 $15,146,868
Fuel Oil 24 $17.73 $178,465
Natural Gas 71 $353.08 $3,554,435
Phone Services 83 $1,420.48 $14,299,989
Water and Other Public Services 91 $676.82 $6,813,525
Coal/Wood/Other Fuel 39 $3.13 $31,551
Housekeeping Supplies 83 $647.51 $6,518,502
Laundry and Cleaning Supplies 85 $186.82 $1,880,718
Postage and Stationery 85 $147.57 $1,485,544
Other HH Products (2) 82 $313.13 $3,152,241
Household Textiles 81 $82.29 $828,365
Bathroom Linens 82 $13.36 $134,538
Bedroom Linens 82 $43.62 $439,121
Kitchen, Dining Room and other Linens 78 $8.24 $82,975
Curtains and Draperies 81 $12.23 $123,117
Slipcovers, Decorative Pillows 81 $4.83 $48,613
Furniture 85 $541.45 $5,450,766
Mattresses and Box Springs 84 $100.62 $1,012,906
Other Bedroom Furniture 91 $101.82 $1,024,977
Sofas 83 $154.50 $1,555,319
Living Room Chairs 80 $41.10 $413,742
Living Room Tables 88 $16.22 $163,239
Kitchen, Dining Room Furniture 79 $37.28 $375,320
Infant Furniture 96 $14.34 $144,311
Outdoor Furniture 79 $31.82 $320,352
Wall Units, Cabinets, Other Furniture (3) 90 $43.77 $440,600
Major Appliances 85 $305.99 $3,080,364
Dishwashers, Disposals & Range Hoods 85 $25.99 $261,676
Refrigerators and Freezers 91 $100.83 $1,015,013
Clothes Washers & Dryers 92 $90.29 $908,966
Cooking Stoves and Ovens 84 $39.47 $397,303
Microwave Ovens 78 $12.80 $128,852
Window Air Conditioners 59 $4.80 $48,285
Electric Floor Cleaning Equipment 79 $20.54 $206,779
Sewing Machines and Miscellaneous Appliances 53 $11.27 $113,492
Data Note: The Spending Potential Index (SPI) is household-based, and represents the amount spent for a product or service relative to a national average of 100. Detail 
may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Source: Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025; Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2017 and 2018 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 2 of 3
House and Home Expenditures
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Spending Potential Average Amount
Index Spent Total
Other Household Furnishings and Equipment
Rugs 73 $25.73 $259,073
Housewares 82 $79.57 $801,036
Small Appliances 81 $40.24 $405,092
Sewing/Needlework/Quilt Materials/Items 68 $8.20 $82,569
Window Coverings 86 $25.70 $258,714
Lamps/Lighting Fixtures/Ceiling Fans 78 $33.54 $337,677
Infant Equipment 87 $14.75 $148,527
Rental of Furniture 78 $4.80 $48,332
Laundry and Cleaning Equipment 79 $23.27 $234,253
Closet and Storage Items 89 $21.25 $213,947
Luggage 85 $12.54 $126,221
Clocks and Other Household Decoratives 83 $170.42 $1,715,585
Telephones and Accessories 76 $66.78 $672,316
Outdoor Equipment 90 $38.72 $389,780
Power Tools 91 $50.20 $505,350
Hand Tools 86 $9.23 $92,920
Office Furniture/Equipment for Home Use 85 $12.74 $128,209
Computers and Hardware for Home Use 85 $138.08 $1,390,071
Portable Memory 86 $3.34 $33,592
Computer Software 83 $8.11 $81,660
Computer Accessories 84 $14.85 $149,520
Other Household Appliances 81 $14.87 $149,719
Misc Equipment incl Ladders/Sheds/Etc 87 $84.39 $849,584
(1) Other Home Services include miscellaneous home services and small repair jobs not already specified.
(2) Other HH Products includes paper towels, napkins, toilet tissue, facial tissue, and miscellaneous household products, such as paper, plastic and foil products.
(3) Wall Units, Cabinets, Other Furniture includes entertainment centers, bookcases, cabinets, desks and other family, recreation, or living room furniture.
Data Note: The Spending Potential Index (SPI) is household-based, and represents the amount spent for a product or service relative to a national average of 100. Detail 
may not sum to totals due to rounding.
Source: Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025; Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2017 and 2018 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 3 of 3
Household Budget Expenditures
Kearns CDP, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns CDP, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Demographic Summary 2020 2025
Population 36,867 38,307
Households 10,067 10,431
Average Household Size 3.66 3.67
Families 8,244 8,527
Median Age 30.3 30.7
Median Household Income $62,370 $67,917
Spending Potential 
Potential
Average Amount
Index Spent Total Percent
Total Expenditures 81 $62,663.99 $630,838,397 100.0%
Food 82 $7,456.56 $75,065,198 11.9%
Food at Home 81 $4,324.51 $43,534,885 6.9%
Food Away from Home 83 $3,132.05 $31,530,313 5.0%
Alcoholic Beverages 80 $498.36 $5,016,983 0.8%
Housing 81 $19,670.97 $198,027,647 31.4%
Shelter 81 $15,667.62 $157,725,980 25.0%
Utilities, Fuel and Public Services 82 $4,003.34 $40,301,667 6.4%
Household Operations 82 $1,744.54 $17,562,254 2.8%
Housekeeping Supplies 83 $647.51 $6,518,502 1.0%
Household Furnishings and Equipment 84 $1,831.06 $18,433,242 2.9%
Apparel and Services 83 $1,783.16 $17,951,080 2.8%
Transportation 83 $7,478.93 $75,290,429 11.9%
Travel 80 $1,935.33 $19,482,949 3.1%
Health Care 80 $4,622.47 $46,534,424 7.4%
Entertainment and Recreation 79 $2,567.60 $25,848,044 4.1%
Personal Care Products & Services 84 $769.88 $7,750,357 1.2%
Education 72 $1,293.30 $13,019,680 2.1%
Smoking Products 68 $275.29 $2,771,330 0.4%
Lotteries & Pari-mutuel Losses 64 $34.59 $348,190 0.1%
Legal Fees 73 $131.62 $1,325,026 0.2%
Funeral Expenses 76 $69.93 $704,022 0.1%
Safe Deposit Box Rentals 68 $3.31 $33,297 0.0%
Checking Account/Banking Service Charges 77 $24.44 $246,002 0.0%
Cemetery Lots/Vaults/Maintenance Fees 59 $5.58 $56,132 0.0%
Accounting Fees 74 $82.61 $831,606 0.1%
Miscellaneous Personal Services/Advertising/Fines 80 $60.32 $607,236 0.1%
Occupational Expenses 75 $45.80 $461,071 0.1%
Expenses for Other Properties 88 $84.37 $849,370 0.1%
Credit Card Membership Fees 78 $6.20 $62,454 0.0%
Shopping Club Membership Fees 85 $28.07 $282,621 0.0%
Support Payments/Cash Contributions/Gifts in Kind 84 $1,961.36 $19,745,025 3.1%
Life/Other Insurance 76 $411.61 $4,143,649 0.7%
Pensions and Social Security 82 $6,784.87 $68,303,236 10.8%
Data Note: The Spending Potential Index (SPI) is household-based, and represents the amount spent for a product or service relative to a national average of 100.  Detail 
may not sum to totals due to rounding.  
Source: Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025; Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2017 and 2018 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
July 01, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 1
Market Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
Population Summary 
2000 Total Population 33,606
2010 Total Population 35,786
2020 Total Population 36,867
2020 Group Quarters 14
2025 Total Population 38,307
2020-2025 Annual Rate 0.77%
2020 Total Daytime Population 23,072
Workers 4,088
Residents 18,984
Household Summary
2000 Households 9,188
2000 Average Household Size 3.65
2010 Households 9,795
2010 Average Household Size 3.65
2020 Households 10,067
2020 Average Household Size 3.66
2025 Households 10,431
2025 Average Household Size 3.67
2020-2025 Annual Rate 0.71%
2010 Families 8,129
2010 Average Family Size 3.91
2020 Families 8,244
2020 Average Family Size 3.93
2025 Families 8,527
2025 Average Family Size 3.94
2020-2025 Annual Rate 0.68%
Housing Unit Summary
2000 Housing Units 9,369
Owner Occupied Housing Units 87.0%
Renter Occupied Housing Units 11.1%
Vacant Housing Units 1.9%
2010 Housing Units 10,184
Owner Occupied Housing Units 78.7%
Renter Occupied Housing Units 17.5%
Vacant Housing Units 3.8%
2020 Housing Units 10,386
Owner Occupied Housing Units 77.9%
Renter Occupied Housing Units 19.0%
Vacant Housing Units 3.1%
2025 Housing Units 10,748
Owner Occupied Housing Units 78.4%
Renter Occupied Housing Units 18.6%
Vacant Housing Units 2.9%
Median Household Income
2020 $62,370
2025 $67,917
Median Home Value
2020 $213,575
2025 $237,150
Per Capita Income
2020 $19,858
2025 $22,117
Median Age
2010 28.2
2020 30.3
2025 30.7
Data Note: Household population includes persons not residing in group quarters.  Average Household Size is the household population divided by total households.  
Persons in families include the householder and persons related to the householder by birth, marriage, or adoption.  Per Capita Income represents the income received by 
all persons aged 15 years and over divided by the total population.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 7
Market Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
2020 Households by Income
Household Income Base 10,067
<$15,000 3.5%
$15,000 - $24,999 5.5%
$25,000 - $34,999 8.8%
$35,000 - $49,999 16.1%
$50,000 - $74,999 26.4%
$75,000 - $99,999 19.3%
$100,000 - $149,999 14.6%
$150,000 - $199,999 5.1%
$200,000+ 0.7%
Average Household Income $72,581
2025 Households by Income
Household Income Base 10,431
<$15,000 2.8%
$15,000 - $24,999 4.5%
$25,000 - $34,999 7.8%
$35,000 - $49,999 14.7%
$50,000 - $74,999 25.3%
$75,000 - $99,999 19.5%
$100,000 - $149,999 17.5%
$150,000 - $199,999 6.9%
$200,000+ 0.9%
Average Household Income $81,054
2020 Owner Occupied Housing Units by Value
Total 8,090
<$50,000 5.2%
$50,000 - $99,999 1.5%
$100,000 - $149,999 13.3%
$150,000 - $199,999 21.5%
$200,000 - $249,999 31.3%
$250,000 - $299,999 13.4%
$300,000 - $399,999 8.0%
$400,000 - $499,999 0.3%
$500,000 - $749,999 3.2%
$750,000 - $999,999 0.7%
$1,000,000 - $1,499,999 1.2%
$1,500,000 - $1,999,999 0.2%
$2,000,000 + 0.2%
Average Home Value $242,908
2025 Owner Occupied Housing Units by Value
Total 8,430
<$50,000 4.0%
$50,000 - $99,999 0.9%
$100,000 - $149,999 6.3%
$150,000 - $199,999 15.4%
$200,000 - $249,999 31.4%
$250,000 - $299,999 17.4%
$300,000 - $399,999 12.6%
$400,000 - $499,999 0.8%
$500,000 - $749,999 6.6%
$750,000 - $999,999 1.8%
$1,000,000 - $1,499,999 2.1%
$1,500,000 - $1,999,999 0.3%
$2,000,000 + 0.3%
Average Home Value $297,782
Data Note: Income represents the preceding year, expressed in current dollars.  Household income includes wage and salary earnings, interest dividends, net rents, 
pensions, SSI and welfare payments, child support, and alimony.  
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 2 of 7
Market Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
2010 Population by Age
Total 35,786
0 - 4 10.0%
5 - 9 10.0%
10 - 14 9.1%
15 - 24 15.2%
25 - 34 17.8%
35 - 44 13.3%
45 - 54 11.5%
55 - 64 7.4%
65 - 74 2.9%
75 - 84 2.3%
85 + 0.5%
18 + 65.7%
2020 Population by Age
Total 36,867
0 - 4 9.5%
5 - 9 9.2%
10 - 14 8.4%
15 - 24 14.0%
25 - 34 16.8%
35 - 44 15.2%
45 - 54 10.3%
55 - 64 8.8%
65 - 74 5.3%
75 - 84 1.7%
85 + 0.8%
18 + 68.3%
2025 Population by Age
Total 38,307
0 - 4 9.5%
5 - 9 9.3%
10 - 14 9.1%
15 - 24 13.6%
25 - 34 16.3%
35 - 44 15.6%
45 - 54 10.6%
55 - 64 7.5%
65 - 74 5.8%
75 - 84 2.2%
85 + 0.6%
18 + 67.6%
2010 Population by Sex
Males 18,099
Females 17,687
2020 Population by Sex
Males 18,622
Females 18,245
2025 Population by Sex
Males 19,377
Females 18,930
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 3 of 7
Market Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
2010 Population by Race/Ethnicity
Total 35,786
White Alone 70.3%
Black Alone 1.4%
American Indian Alone 1.4%
Asian Alone 2.1%
Pacific Islander Alone 2.6%
Some Other Race Alone 18.7%
Two or More Races 3.5%
Hispanic Origin 32.8%
Diversity Index 72.3
2020 Population by Race/Ethnicity
Total 36,867
White Alone 66.1%
Black Alone 1.7%
American Indian Alone 1.5%
Asian Alone 2.9%
Pacific Islander Alone 2.9%
Some Other Race Alone 20.9%
Two or More Races 4.0%
Hispanic Origin 36.0%
Diversity Index 76.3
2025 Population by Race/Ethnicity
Total 38,306
White Alone 63.6%
Black Alone 1.9%
American Indian Alone 1.6%
Asian Alone 3.4%
Pacific Islander Alone 3.0%
Some Other Race Alone 22.3%
Two or More Races 4.2%
Hispanic Origin 38.0%
Diversity Index 78.4
2010 Population by Relationship and Household Type
Total 35,786
In Households 100.0%
In Family Households 93.3%
Householder 22.7%
Spouse 16.5%
Child 41.5%
Other relative 8.0%
Nonrelative 4.6%
In Nonfamily Households 6.7%
In Group Quarters 0.0%
Institutionalized Population 0.0%
Noninstitutionalized Population 0.0%
Data Note: Persons of Hispanic Origin may be of any race.  The Diversity Index measures the probability that two people from the same area will be from different race/
ethnic groups.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 4 of 7
Market Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
2020 Population 25+ by Educational Attainment
Total 21,715
Less than 9th Grade 8.0%
9th - 12th Grade, No Diploma 12.8%
High School Graduate 28.4%
GED/Alternative Credential 5.6%
Some College, No Degree 23.3%
Associate Degree 10.1%
Bachelor's Degree 9.2%
Graduate/Professional Degree 2.7%
2020 Population 15+ by Marital Status
Total 26,868
Never Married 33.8%
Married 53.5%
Widowed 3.6%
Divorced 9.1%
2020 Civilian Population 16+ in Labor Force
Civilian Population 16+ 19,932
   Population 16+ Employed 91.6%
   Population 16+ Unemployment rate 8.4%
Population 16-24 Employed 15.6%
Population 16-24 Unemployment rate 15.9%
Population 25-54 Employed 69.4%
Population 25-54 Unemployment rate 7.0%
Population 55-64 Employed 11.7%
Population 55-64 Unemployment rate 6.6%
Population 65+ Employed 3.3%
Population 65+ Unemployment rate 6.0%
2020 Employed Population 16+ by Industry
Total 18,255
   Agriculture/Mining 1.6%
   Construction 10.7%
   Manufacturing 16.5%
   Wholesale Trade 2.5%
   Retail Trade 11.8%
   Transportation/Utilities 7.0%
   Information 2.9%
   Finance/Insurance/Real Estate 7.8%
   Services 37.2%
   Public Administration 2.1%
2020 Employed Population 16+ by Occupation
Total 18,255
   White Collar 49.7%
      Management/Business/Financial 9.3%
      Professional 12.8%
      Sales 7.1%
      Administrative Support 20.5%
   Services 14.5%
   Blue Collar 35.9%
      Farming/Forestry/Fishing 0.0%
      Construction/Extraction 9.2%
      Installation/Maintenance/Repair 4.8%
      Production 11.9%
      Transportation/Material Moving 10.0%
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 5 of 7
Market Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
2010 Households by Type
Total 9,795
Households with 1 Person 12.4%
Households with 2+ People 87.6%
Family Households 83.0%
Husband-wife Families 60.4%
With Related Children 38.0%
Other Family (No Spouse Present) 22.6%
Other Family with Male Householder 8.0%
With Related Children 5.3%
Other Family with Female Householder 14.5%
With Related Children 9.9%
Nonfamily Households 4.6%
All Households with Children 54.3%
Multigenerational Households 10.2%
Unmarried Partner Households 6.9%
Male-female 6.1%
Same-sex 0.8%
2010 Households by Size
Total 9,795
1 Person Household 12.4%
2 Person Household 22.6%
3 Person Household 17.3%
4 Person Household 18.2%
5 Person Household 12.9%
6 Person Household 8.0%
7 + Person Household 8.6%
2010 Households by Tenure and Mortgage Status
Total 9,795
Owner Occupied 81.8%
Owned with a Mortgage/Loan 70.4%
Owned Free and Clear 11.5%
Renter Occupied 18.2%
2020 Affordability, Mortgage and Wealth
Housing Affordability Index 165
Percent of Income for Mortgage 14.3%
Wealth Index 60
2010 Housing Units By Urban/ Rural Status
Total Housing Units 10,184
Housing Units Inside Urbanized Area 100.0%
Housing Units Inside Urbanized Cluster 0.0%
Rural Housing Units 0.0%
2010 Population By Urban/ Rural Status
Total Population  35,786
Population Inside Urbanized Area 100.0%
Population Inside Urbanized Cluster 0.0%
Rural Population 0.0%
Data Note: Households with children include any households with people under age 18, related or not.  Multigenerational households are families with 3 or more parent-
child relationships. Unmarried partner households are usually classified as nonfamily households unless there is another member of the household related to the 
householder. Multigenerational and unmarried partner households are reported only to the tract level. Esri estimated block group data, which is used to estimate 
polygons or non-standard geography.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 6 of 7
Market Profile
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Kearns metro ...
Top 3 Tapestry Segments
1. American Dreamers (7C)
2. Up and Coming Families (7A)
3. Home Improvement (4B)
2020 Consumer Spending 
Apparel & Services:  Total $ $17,951,080
Average Spent $1,783.16
Spending Potential Index 83
Education:  Total $ $13,019,680
Average Spent $1,293.30
Spending Potential Index 72
Entertainment/Recreation:  Total $ $25,848,044
Average Spent $2,567.60
Spending Potential Index 79
Food at Home:  Total $ $43,534,885
Average Spent $4,324.51
Spending Potential Index 81
Food Away from Home:  Total $ $31,530,313
Average Spent $3,132.05
Spending Potential Index 83
Health Care:  Total $ $46,534,424
Average Spent $4,622.47
Spending Potential Index 80
HH Furnishings & Equipment:  Total $ $18,433,242
Average Spent $1,831.06
Spending Potential Index 84
Personal Care Products & Services: Total $ $7,750,357
Average Spent $769.88
Spending Potential Index 84
Shelter:  Total $ $157,725,980
Average Spent $15,667.62
Spending Potential Index 81
Support Payments/Cash Contributions/Gifts in Kind: Total $ $19,745,025
Average Spent $1,961.36
Spending Potential Index 84
Travel:  Total $ $19,482,949
Average Spent $1,935.33
Spending Potential Index 80
Vehicle Maintenance & Repairs: Total $ $9,333,745
Average Spent $927.16
Spending Potential Index 80
Data Note: Consumer spending shows the amount spent on a variety of goods and services by households that reside in the area.  Expenditures are shown by broad 
budget categories that are not mutually exclusive.  Consumer spending does not equal business revenue. Total and Average Amount Spent Per Household represent annual 
figures. The Spending Potential Index represents the amount spent in the area relative to a national average of 100.
Source: Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2017 and 2018 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics. Esri.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, Census 2010 Summary File 1. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025 Esri converted Census 2000 data into 2010 geography.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 7 of 7
Restaurant Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Demographic Summary 2020 2025
Population 36,867 38,307
Population 18+ 25,180 25,879
Households 10,067 10,431
Median Household Income $62,370 $67,917
Expected Number of 
Product/Consumer Behavior Adults Percent MPI
Went to family restaurant/steak house in last 6 months 19,070 75.7% 103
Went to family restaurant/steak house 4+ times/month 6,601 26.2% 100
Spent at family restaurant last 30 days: <$1-30 1,787 7.1% 90
Spent at family restaurant last 30 days: $31-50 2,108 8.4% 91
Spent at family restaurant last 30 days: $51-100 3,977 15.8% 106
Spent at family restaurant last 30 days: $101-200 2,038 8.1% 87
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: for breakfast 3,515 14.0% 108
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: for lunch 5,165 20.5% 110
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: for dinner 11,369 45.2% 100
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: for snack 666 2.6% 135
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: on weekday 7,215 28.7% 96
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: on weekend 10,965 43.5% 108
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Applebee`s 4,649 18.5% 93
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Bob Evans 470 1.9% 62
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Buffalo Wild Wings 2,782 11.0% 115
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: California Pizza Kitchen 818 3.2% 122
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: The Cheesecake Factory 2,037 8.1% 115
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Chili`s Grill & Bar 3,185 12.6% 120
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: CiCis 917 3.6% 167
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Cracker Barrel 2,597 10.3% 92
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Denny`s 2,992 11.9% 134
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Golden Corral 2,331 9.3% 132
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: IHOP 3,218 12.8% 130
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Logan`s Roadhouse 624 2.5% 80
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: LongHorn Steakhouse 1,064 4.2% 79
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Olive Garden 4,094 16.3% 105
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Outback Steakhouse 1,789 7.1% 89
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Red Lobster 2,567 10.2% 107
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Red Robin 1,881 7.5% 110
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Ruby Tuesday 964 3.8% 94
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Texas Roadhouse 2,271 9.0% 87
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: T.G.I. Friday`s 1,408 5.6% 112
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: Waffle House 1,785 7.1% 112
Went to family restaurant last 6 months: fast food/drive-in 22,808 90.6% 100
Went to fast food/drive-in restaurant 9+ times/month 9,768 38.8% 100
Spent at fast food restaurant last 30 days: <$1-10 635 2.5% 62
Spent at fast food restaurant last 30 days: $11-$20 2,452 9.7% 97
Spent at fast food restaurant last 30 days: $21-$40 3,801 15.1% 94
Spent at fast food restaurant last 30 days: $41-$50 1,812 7.2% 85
Spent at fast food restaurant last 30 days: $51-$100 4,755 18.9% 111
Spent at fast food restaurant last 30 days: $101-$200 2,214 8.8% 99
Spent at fast food restaurant last 30 days: $201+ 784 3.1% 94
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or purchasing 
patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 2
Restaurant Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected Number of
Product/Consumer Behavior Adults Percent MPI
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: eat in 8,889 35.3% 99
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: home delivery 2,411 9.6% 113
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: take-out/drive-thru 12,086 48.0% 105
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: take-out/walk-in 5,154 20.5% 99
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: breakfast 8,910 35.4% 102
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: lunch 12,194 48.4% 98
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: dinner 11,350 45.1% 98
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: snack 3,232 12.8% 104
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: weekday 14,059 55.8% 96
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: weekend 12,768 50.7% 109
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: A & W 480 1.9% 68
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Arby`s 3,457 13.7% 79
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Baskin-Robbins 936 3.7% 108
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Boston Market 698 2.8% 88
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Burger King 6,744 26.8% 94
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Captain D`s 713 2.8% 86
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Carl`s Jr. 2,276 9.0% 155
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Checkers 1,122 4.5% 130
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Chick-fil-A 7,801 31.0% 120
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Chipotle Mex. Grill 3,321 13.2% 105
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Chuck E. Cheese`s 833 3.3% 125
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Church`s Fr. Chicken 1,586 6.3% 177
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Cold Stone Creamery 851 3.4% 115
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Dairy Queen 4,023 16.0% 102
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Del Taco 1,386 5.5% 139
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Domino`s Pizza 3,865 15.3% 117
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Dunkin` Donuts 2,990 11.9% 88
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Five Guys 1,937 7.7% 84
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Hardee`s 1,007 4.0% 65
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Jack in the Box 3,396 13.5% 177
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Jimmy John`s 1,288 5.1% 89
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: KFC 5,558 22.1% 109
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Krispy Kreme 1,635 6.5% 116
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Little Caesars 3,990 15.8% 129
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Long John Silver`s 847 3.4% 98
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: McDonald`s 12,631 50.2% 98
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Panda Express 3,561 14.1% 147
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Panera Bread 2,750 10.9% 86
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Papa John`s 2,600 10.3% 125
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Papa Murphy`s 794 3.2% 74
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Pizza Hut 4,354 17.3% 110
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Popeyes Chicken 3,092 12.3% 132
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Sonic Drive-In 3,572 14.2% 117
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Starbucks 4,572 18.2% 100
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Steak `n Shake 1,314 5.2% 96
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Subway 5,785 23.0% 94
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Taco Bell 7,852 31.2% 108
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Wendy`s 5,761 22.9% 89
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: Whataburger 2,392 9.5% 168
Went to fast food restaurant in the last 6 months: White Castle 507 2.0% 66
Went to fine dining restaurant last month 1,957 7.8% 75
Went to fine dining restaurant 3+ times last month 537 2.1% 74
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or purchasing 
patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 2 of 2
Retail Demand Outlook
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Top Tapestry Segments Percent Demographic Summary 2020 2025
American Dreamers (7C) 50.3% Population 36,867 38,307
Up and Coming Families (7A) 25.2% Households 10,067 10,431
Home Improvement (4B) 16.9% Families 8,244 8,527
Rustbelt Traditions (5D) 3.9% Median Age 30.3 30.7
Down the Road (10D) 3.7% Median Household Income $62,370 $67,917
2020 2025 Projected
Consumer Spending Forecasted Demand Spending Growth
Apparel and Services $17,951,080 $20,775,502 $2,824,422
Men's $3,457,207 $4,000,995 $543,788
Women's $6,098,404 $7,056,349 $957,945
Children's $2,969,355 $3,438,829 $469,474
Footwear $4,038,666 $4,674,085 $635,419
Watches & Jewelry $945,942 $1,094,640 $148,698
Apparel Products and Services (1) $441,507 $510,604 $69,097
Computer
Computers and Hardware for Home Use $1,390,071 $1,608,598 $218,527
Portable Memory $33,592 $38,865 $5,273
Computer Software $81,660 $94,488 $12,828
Computer Accessories $149,520 $173,069 $23,549
Entertainment & Recreation $25,848,044 $29,913,911 $4,065,867
Fees and Admissions $5,937,933 $6,871,414 $933,481
Membership Fees for Clubs (2) $1,873,322 $2,167,151 $293,829
Fees for Participant Sports, excl. Trips $902,797 $1,044,919 $142,122
Tickets to Theatre/Operas/Concerts $595,329 $688,685 $93,356
Tickets to Movies $546,820 $633,061 $86,241
Tickets to Parks or Museums $284,554 $329,315 $44,761
Admission to Sporting Events, excl. Trips $500,317 $578,908 $78,591
Fees for Recreational Lessons $1,228,310 $1,421,884 $193,574
Dating Services $6,484 $7,492 $1,008
TV/Video/Audio $9,408,250 $10,887,255 $1,479,005
Cable and Satellite Television Services $6,267,673 $7,251,541 $983,868
Televisions $956,262 $1,106,996 $150,734
Satellite Dishes $11,448 $13,253 $1,805
VCRs, Video Cameras, and DVD Players $48,079 $55,665 $7,586
Miscellaneous Video Equipment $208,246 $241,011 $32,765
Video Cassettes and DVDs $88,158 $102,073 $13,915
Video Game Hardware/Accessories $253,583 $293,619 $40,036
Video Game Software $146,651 $169,846 $23,195
Rental/Streaming/Downloaded Video $489,049 $566,224 $77,175
Installation of Televisions $9,590 $11,096 $1,506
Audio (3) $912,372 $1,056,105 $143,733
Rental and Repair of TV/Radio/Sound Equipment $17,140 $19,826 $2,686
Pets $5,188,442 $6,004,305 $815,863
Toys/Games/Crafts/Hobbies (4) $1,032,544 $1,195,550 $163,006
Recreational Vehicles and Fees (5) $992,601 $1,148,214 $155,613
Sports/Recreation/Exercise Equipment (6) $1,843,866 $2,135,660 $291,794
Photo Equipment and Supplies (7) $404,184 $467,893 $63,709
Reading (8) $828,965 $959,131 $130,166
Catered Affairs (9) $211,259 $244,489 $33,230
Food $75,065,198 $86,865,468 $11,800,270
Food at Home $43,534,885 $50,378,049 $6,843,164
Bakery and Cereal Products $5,603,818 $6,485,176 $881,358
Meats, Poultry, Fish, and Eggs $9,563,150 $11,065,192 $1,502,042
Dairy Products $4,389,243 $5,079,116 $689,873
Fruits and Vegetables $8,589,970 $9,939,422 $1,349,452
Snacks and Other Food at Home (10) $15,388,704 $17,809,144 $2,420,440
Food Away from Home $31,530,313 $36,487,419 $4,957,106
Alcoholic Beverages $5,016,983 $5,804,308 $787,325
Data Note: The Consumer Spending data is household-based and represents the amount spent for a product or service by all households in an area. Detail may not sum 
to totals due to rounding.  This report is not a comprehensive list of all consumer spending variables therefore the variables in each section may not sum to totals.
Source: Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025; Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2017 and 2018 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 3
Retail Demand Outlook
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
2020 2025 Projected
Consumer Spending Forecasted Demand Spending Growth
Financial
Value of Stocks/Bonds/Mutual Funds $189,097,706 $218,753,288 $29,655,582
Value of Retirement Plans $720,026,520 $832,935,482 $112,908,962
Value of Other Financial Assets $62,254,543 $71,963,922 $9,709,379
Vehicle Loan Amount excluding Interest $26,266,847 $30,408,578 $4,141,731
Value of Credit Card Debt $21,336,442 $24,690,280 $3,353,838
Health
Nonprescription Drugs $1,141,940 $1,321,335 $179,395
Prescription Drugs $2,685,768 $3,108,238 $422,470
Eyeglasses and Contact Lenses $701,776 $812,008 $110,232
Home
Mortgage Payment and Basics (11) $89,160,695 $103,167,102 $14,006,407
Maintenance and Remodeling Services $20,940,113 $24,223,426 $3,283,313
Maintenance and Remodeling Materials (12) $4,346,459 $5,028,818 $682,359
Utilities, Fuel, and Public Services $40,301,667 $46,635,312 $6,333,645
Household Furnishings and Equipment
Household Textiles (13) $828,365 $958,624 $130,259
Furniture $5,450,766 $6,308,712 $857,946
Rugs $259,073 $299,943 $40,870
Major Appliances (14) $3,080,364 $3,565,326 $484,962
Housewares (15) $801,036 $927,147 $126,111
Small Appliances $405,092 $468,777 $63,685
Luggage $126,221 $146,061 $19,840
Telephones and Accessories $672,316 $777,914 $105,598
Household Operations
Child Care $4,552,440 $5,270,509 $718,069
Lawn and Garden (16) $3,802,349 $4,399,097 $596,748
Moving/Storage/Freight Express $504,487 $583,756 $79,269
Housekeeping Supplies (17) $6,518,502 $7,544,304 $1,025,802
Insurance
Owners and Renters Insurance $5,014,689 $5,803,624 $788,935
Vehicle Insurance $15,464,278 $17,896,610 $2,432,332
Life/Other Insurance $4,143,649 $4,794,771 $651,122
Health Insurance $30,046,136 $34,768,391 $4,722,255
Personal Care Products (18) $4,212,088 $4,874,786 $662,698
School Books and Supplies (19) $1,265,013 $1,464,077 $199,064
Smoking Products $2,771,330 $3,207,265 $435,935
Transportation
Payments on Vehicles excluding Leases $22,674,526 $26,249,065 $3,574,539
Gasoline and Motor Oil $20,238,530 $23,421,031 $3,182,501
Vehicle Maintenance and Repairs $9,333,745 $10,802,845 $1,469,100
Travel
Airline Fares $4,919,920 $5,691,366 $771,446
Lodging on Trips $5,064,240 $5,859,070 $794,830
Auto/Truck Rental on Trips $238,974 $276,486 $37,512
Food and Drink on Trips $4,657,902 $5,389,547 $731,645
Data Note: The Consumer Spending data is household-based and represents the amount spent for a product or service by all households in an area. Detail may not sum 
to totals due to rounding.  This report is not a comprehensive list of all consumer spending variables therefore the variables in each section may not sum to totals.
Source: Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025; Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2017 and 2018 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 2 of 3
Retail Demand Outlook
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
(1) Apparel Products and Services includes shoe repair and other shoe services, apparel laundry and dry cleaning, alteration, repair and tailoring of apparel, clothing rental 
and storage, and watch and jewelry repair.
(2) Membership Fees for Clubs includes membership fees for social, recreational, and health clubs.
(3) Audio includes satellite radio service, radios, stereos, sound components, equipment and accessories, digital audio players, records, CDs, audio tapes, streaming/
downloaded audio, musical instruments and accessories, and rental and repair of musical instruments.
(4) Toys and Games includes toys, games, arts and crafts, tricycles, playground equipment, arcade games, online entertainment and games, and stamp and coin collecting.
(5) Recreational Vehicles & Fees includes docking and landing fees for boats and planes, payments on boats, trailers, campers and RVs, rental of boats, trailers, campers 
and RVs, and camp fees.
(6) Sports/Recreation/Exercise Equipment  includes exercise equipment and gear, game tables, bicycles, camping equipment, hunting and fishing equipment, winter 
sports equipment, water sports equipment, other sports equipment, and rental/repair of sports/recreation/exercise equipment.
(7) Photo Equipment and Supplies includes film, film processing, photographic equipment, rental and repair of photo equipment, and photographer fees.    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
(8) Reading includes digital book readers, books, magazine and newspaper subscriptions, and single copies of magazines and newspapers.
(9) Catered Affairs includes expenses associated with live entertainment and rental of party supplies.
(10) Snacks and Other Food at Home includes candy, chewing gum, sugar, artificial sweeteners, jam, jelly, preserves, margarine, fats and oils, salad dressing, nondairy 
cream and milk, peanut butter, frozen prepared food, potato chips and other snacks, nuts, salt, spices, seasonings, olives, pickles, relishes, sauces, gravy, other condiments, 
soup, prepared salad, prepared dessert, baby food, miscellaneous prepared food, and nonalcoholic beverages.
(11) Mortgage Payment and Basics includes mortgage interest, mortgage principal, property taxes, homeowners insurance, and ground rent on owned dwellings.
(12) Maintenance and Remodeling Materials includes supplies/tools/equipment for painting and wallpapering, plumbing supplies and equipment, electrical/heating/AC 
supplies, materials for roofing/gutters, materials for plaster/panel/siding, materials for patio/fence/brick work, landscaping materials, and insulation materials for owned 
homes.
(13) Household Textiles includes bathroom linens, bedroom linens, kitchen linens, dining room linens, other linens, curtains, draperies, slipcovers and decorative pillows.
(14) Major Appliances includes dishwashers, disposals, refrigerators, freezers, washers, dryers, stoves, ovens, microwaves, window air conditioners, electric floor cleaning 
equipment, sewing machines, and miscellaneous appliances.
(15) Housewares includes flatware, dishes, cups glasses, serving pieces, nonelectric cookware, and tableware.
(16) Lawn and Garden includes lawn and garden supplies, equipment and care service, indoor plants, fresh flowers, and repair/rental of lawn and garden equipment.
(17) Housekeeping Supplies includes soaps and laundry detergents, cleaning products, toilet tissue, paper towels, napkins, paper/plastic/foil products, stationery, giftwrap 
supplies, postage, and delivery services.
(18) Personal Care Products  includes hair care products, nonelectric articles for hair, wigs, hairpieces, oral hygiene products, shaving needs, perfume, cosmetics, skincare, 
bath products, nail products, deodorant, feminine hygiene products, adult diapers, other miscellaneous care products and personal care appliances.
(19) School Books and Supplies includes school books and supplies for college, elementary school, high school, vocational/technical school, preschool and other schools.
Data Note: The Consumer Spending data is household-based and represents the amount spent for a product or service by all households in an area. Detail may not sum 
to totals due to rounding.  This report is not a comprehensive list of all consumer spending variables therefore the variables in each section may not sum to totals.
Source: Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025; Consumer Spending data are derived from the 2017 and 2018 Consumer Expenditure Surveys, Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 3 of 3
Retail Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Demographic Summary 2020 2025
Population 36,867 38,307
Population 18+ 25,180 25,879
Households 10,067 10,431
Median Household Income $62,370 $67,917
Expected Number of Percent of 
Product/Consumer Behavior  Adults or HHs Adults/HHs MPI
Apparel (Adults)
Bought any men's clothing in last 12 months 11,666 46.3% 96
Bought any women's clothing in last 12 months 11,329 45.0% 102
Bought clothing for child <13 years in last 6 months 7,941 31.5% 120
Bought any shoes in last 12 months 12,594 50.0% 95
Bought costume jewelry in last 12 months 4,448 17.7% 104
Bought any fine jewelry in last 12 months 4,815 19.1% 106
Bought a watch in last 12 months 4,296 17.1% 111
Automobiles (Households)
HH owns/leases any vehicle 8,666 86.1% 101
HH bought/leased new vehicle last 12 months 856 8.5% 90
Automotive Aftermarket (Adults)
Bought gasoline in last 6 months 21,647 86.0% 101
Bought/changed motor oil in last 12 months 12,055 47.9% 103
Had tune-up in last 12 months 6,796 27.0% 111
Beverages (Adults)
Drank bottled water/seltzer in last 6 months 19,007 75.5% 105
Drank regular cola in last 6 months 12,040 47.8% 110
Drank beer/ale in last 6 months 10,010 39.8% 96
Cameras (Adults)
Own digital point & shoot camera/camcorder 1,389 5.5% 65
Own digital SLR camera/camcorder 1,769 7.0% 92
Printed digital photos in last 12 months 5,401 21.4% 98
Cell Phones (Adults/Households)
Bought cell phone in last 12 months 8,901 35.3% 105
Have a smartphone 23,061 91.6% 105
Have a smartphone: Android phone (any brand) 11,607 46.1% 112
Have a smartphone: Apple iPhone 11,060 43.9% 98
Number of cell phones in household: 1 2,553 25.4% 84
Number of cell phones in household: 2 3,609 35.8% 93
Number of cell phones in household: 3+ 3,817 37.9% 131
HH has cell phone only (no landline telephone) 6,618 65.7% 109
Computers (Households)
HH owns a computer 7,439 73.9% 101
HH owns desktop computer 3,669 36.4% 104
HH owns laptop/notebook 5,784 57.5% 100
HH owns any Apple/Mac brand computer 1,791 17.8% 93
HH owns any PC/non-Apple brand computer 6,346 63.0% 104
HH purchased most recent computer in a store 3,394 33.7% 95
HH purchased most recent computer online 1,135 11.3% 80
HH spent $1-$499 on most recent home computer 1,313 13.0% 89
HH spent $500-$999 on most recent home computer 1,506 15.0% 93
HH spent $1,000-$1,499 on most recent home computer 871 8.7% 89
HH spent $1,500-$1,999 on most recent home computer 351 3.5% 78
HH spent $2,000+ on most recent home computer 326 3.2% 80
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior 
or purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.                                                                                                               
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 4
Retail Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected Number of Percent of 
Product/Consumer Behavior  Adults or HHs Adults/HHs MPI
Convenience Stores (Adults)
Shopped at convenience store in last 6 months 16,246 64.5% 104
Bought brewed coffee at convenience store in last 30 days 3,156 12.5% 95
Bought cigarettes at convenience store in last 30 days 2,395 9.5% 91
Bought gas at convenience store in last 30 days 9,661 38.4% 103
Spent at convenience store in last 30 days: $1-19 1,663 6.6% 98
Spent at convenience store in last 30 days: $20-$39 2,348 9.3% 100
Spent at convenience store in last 30 days: $40-$50 1,772 7.0% 88
Spent at convenience store in last 30 days: $51-$99 1,481 5.9% 108
Spent at convenience store in last 30 days: $100+ 5,761 22.9% 101
Entertainment (Adults)
Attended a movie in last 6 months 15,572 61.8% 106
Went to live theater in last 12 months 2,322 9.2% 81
Went to a bar/night club in last 12 months 3,792 15.1% 89
Dined out in last 12 months 11,575 46.0% 90
Gambled at a casino in last 12 months 3,481 13.8% 101
Visited a theme park in last 12 months 5,881 23.4% 125
Viewed movie (video-on-demand) in last 30 days 3,649 14.5% 87
Viewed TV show (video-on-demand) in last 30 days 2,620 10.4% 89
Watched any pay-per-view TV in last 12 months 2,209 8.8% 99
Downloaded a movie over the Internet in last 30 days 2,934 11.7% 116
Downloaded any individual song in last 6 months 4,963 19.7% 105
Watched a movie online in the  last 30 days 8,327 33.1% 110
Watched a TV program online in last 30 days 5,164 20.5% 101
Played a video/electronic game (console) in last 12 months 2,257 9.0% 99
Played a video/electronic game (portable) in last 12 months 1,049 4.2% 97
Financial (Adults)
Have home mortgage (1st) 8,152 32.4% 106
Used ATM/cash machine in last 12 months 13,032 51.8% 99
Own any stock 1,090 4.3% 62
Own U.S. savings bond 678 2.7% 64
Own shares in mutual fund (stock) 1,069 4.2% 60
Own shares in mutual fund (bonds) 710 2.8% 59
Have interest checking account 5,301 21.1% 74
Have non-interest checking account 7,414 29.4% 102
Have savings account 13,753 54.6% 96
Have 401K retirement savings plan 3,335 13.2% 83
Own/used any credit/debit card in last 12 months 20,141 80.0% 100
Avg monthly credit card expenditures: $1-110 3,191 12.7% 112
Avg monthly credit card expenditures: $111-$225 1,740 6.9% 96
Avg monthly credit card expenditures: $226-$450 2,033 8.1% 117
Avg monthly credit card expenditures: $451-$700 1,193 4.7% 76
Avg monthly credit card expenditures: $701-$1,000 988 3.9% 67
Avg monthly credit card expenditures: $1,001+ 2,371 9.4% 77
Did banking online in last 12 months 9,556 38.0% 97
Did banking on mobile device in last 12 months 7,588 30.1% 106
Paid bills online in last 12 months 13,576 53.9% 106
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior 
or purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.                                                                                                               
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 2 of 4
Retail Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected Number of Percent of 
Product/Consumer Behavior  Adults/HHs Adults/HHs MPI
Grocery (Adults)
HH used beef (fresh/frozen) in last 6 months 7,083 70.4% 103
HH used  bread in last 6 months 9,391 93.3% 100
HH used  chicken (fresh or frozen) in last 6 months 7,285 72.4% 106
HH used  turkey (fresh or frozen) in last 6 months 1,401 13.9% 93
HH used  fish/seafood (fresh or frozen) in last 6 months 5,948 59.1% 108
HH used  fresh fruit/vegetables in last 6 months 8,589 85.3% 101
HH used  fresh milk in last 6 months 8,573 85.2% 101
HH used  organic food in last 6 months 2,568 25.5% 105
Health (Adults)
Exercise at home 2+ times per week 7,003 27.8% 102
Exercise at club 2+ times per week 3,875 15.4% 109
Visited a doctor in last 12 months 18,268 72.5% 95
Used vitamin/dietary supplement in last 6 months 13,137 52.2% 97
Home (Households)
HH did any home improvement in last 12 months 2,810 27.9% 102
HH used any maid/professional cleaning service in last 12 months 1,419 14.1% 95
HH purchased low ticket HH furnishings in last 12 months 1,582 15.7% 90
HH purchased big ticket HH furnishings in last 12 months 2,061 20.5% 90
HH bought any small kitchen appliance in last 12 months 2,098 20.8% 92
HH bought any large kitchen appliance in last 12 months 1,362 13.5% 102
Insurance (Adults/Households)
Currently carry life insurance 9,742 38.7% 89
Carry medical/hospital/accident insurance 17,387 69.1% 93
Carry homeowner insurance 10,281 40.8% 88
Carry renter's insurance 2,190 8.7% 100
HH has auto insurance: 1 vehicle in household covered 3,108 30.9% 102
HH has auto insurance: 2 vehicles in household covered 3,069 30.5% 110
HH has auto insurance: 3+ vehicles in household covered 2,014 20.0% 89
Pets (Households)
Household owns any pet 5,568 55.3% 103
Household owns any cat 1,882 18.7% 82
Household owns any dog 4,572 45.4% 110
Psychographics (Adults)
Buying American is important to me 8,665 34.4% 93
Usually buy items on credit rather than wait 3,088 12.3% 91
Usually buy based on quality - not price 4,653 18.5% 101
Price is usually more important than brand name 6,856 27.2% 97
Usually use coupons for brands I buy often 3,841 15.3% 96
Am interested in how to help the environment 5,780 23.0% 116
Usually pay more for environ safe product 3,848 15.3% 103
Usually value green products over convenience 3,064 12.2% 107
Likely to buy a brand that supports a charity 9,250 36.7% 103
Reading (Adults)
Bought digital book in last 12 months 2,886 11.5% 87
Bought hardcover book in last 12 months 4,170 16.6% 83
Bought paperback book in last 12 month 6,686 26.6% 95
Read any daily newspaper (paper version) 2,726 10.8% 68
Read any digital newspaper in last 30 days 10,091 40.1% 97
Read any magazine (paper/electronic version) in last 6 months 23,030 91.5% 101
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior 
or purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.                                                                                                               
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 3 of 4
Retail Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected Number of Percent of 
Product/Consumer Behavior  Adults or HHs Adults/HHs MPI
Restaurants (Adults)
Went to family restaurant/steak house in last 6 months 19,070 75.7% 103
Went to family restaurant/steak house: 4+ times a month 6,601 26.2% 100
Went to fast food/drive-in restaurant in last 6 months 22,808 90.6% 100
Went to fast food/drive-in restaurant 9+ times/month 9,768 38.8% 100
Fast food restaurant last 6 months: eat in 8,889 35.3% 99
Fast food restaurant last 6 months: home delivery 2,411 9.6% 113
Fast food restaurant last 6 months: take-out/drive-thru 12,086 48.0% 105
Fast food restaurant last 6 months: take-out/walk-in 5,154 20.5% 99
Television & Electronics (Adults/Households)
Own any tablet 12,865 51.1% 102
Own any e-reader 2,274 9.0% 94
Own e-reader/tablet: iPad 6,800 27.0% 92
HH has Internet connectable TV 2,988 29.7% 94
Own any portable MP3 player 4,136 16.4% 103
HH owns 1 TV 1,977 19.6% 92
HH owns 2 TVs 2,509 24.9% 95
HH owns 3 TVs 2,183 21.7% 103
HH owns 4+ TVs 1,828 18.2% 108
HH subscribes to cable TV 4,370 43.4% 105
HH subscribes to fiber optic 530 5.3% 82
HH owns portable GPS navigation device 1,760 17.5% 86
HH purchased video game system in last 12 months 973 9.7% 114
HH owns any Internet video device for TV 2,859 28.4% 103
Travel (Adults)
Took domestic trip in continental US last 12 months 12,034 47.8% 91
Took 3+ domestic non-business trips in last 12 months 2,705 10.7% 90
Spent on domestic vacations in last 12 months: $1-999 2,699 10.7% 99
Spent on domestic vacations in last 12 months: $1,000-$1,499 1,363 5.4% 87
Spent on domestic vacations in last 12 months: $1,500-$1,999 855 3.4% 88
Spent on domestic vacations in last 12 months: $2,000-$2,999 956 3.8% 86
Spent on domestic vacations in last 12 months: $3,000+ 1,014 4.0% 63
Domestic travel in last 12 months: used general travel website 1,412 5.6% 85
Took foreign trip (including Alaska and Hawaii) in last 3 years 6,975 27.7% 96
Took 3+ foreign trips by plane in last 3 years 1,015 4.0% 69
Spent on foreign vacations in last 12 months: $1-999 1,118 4.4% 89
Spent on foreign vacations in last 12 months: $1,000-$2,999 984 3.9% 90
Spent on foreign vacations in last 12 months: $3,000+ 1,278 5.1% 76
Foreign travel in last 3 years: used general travel website 1,001 4.0% 68
Nights spent in hotel/motel in last 12 months: any 10,258 40.7% 90
Took cruise of more than one day in last 3 years 2,218 8.8% 96
Member of any frequent flyer program 3,729 14.8% 80
Member of any hotel rewards program 3,995 15.9% 83
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior 
or purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.                                                                                                               
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 4 of 4
Sports and Leisure Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Demographic Summary 2020 2025
Population 36,867 38,307
Population 18+ 25,180 25,879
Households 10,067 10,431
Median Household Income $62,370 $67,917
Expected 
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults/HHs Percent MPI
Participated in aerobics in last 12 months 1,701 6.8% 96
Participated in archery in last 12 months 549 2.2% 83
Participated in backpacking in last 12 months 710 2.8% 83
Participated in baseball in last 12 months 1,135 4.5% 113
Participated in basketball in last 12 months 2,256 9.0% 114
Participated in bicycling (mountain) in last 12 months 1,039 4.1% 101
Participated in bicycling (road) in last 12 months 1,919 7.6% 82
Participated in boating (power) in last 12 months 743 3.0% 69
Participated in bowling in last 12 months 2,269 9.0% 103
Participated in canoeing/kayaking in last 12 months 1,065 4.2% 67
Participated in fishing (fresh water) in last 12 months 2,304 9.2% 84
Participated in fishing (salt water) in last 12 months 1,194 4.7% 120
Participated in football in last 12 months 1,203 4.8% 103
Participated in Frisbee in last 12 months 806 3.2% 86
Participated in golf in last 12 months 1,419 5.6% 71
Participated in hiking in last 12 months 2,575 10.2% 84
Participated in horseback riding in last 12 months 492 2.0% 85
Participated in hunting with rifle in last 12 months 730 2.9% 73
Participated in hunting with shotgun in last 12 months 464 1.8% 58
Participated in ice skating in last 12 months 715 2.8% 100
Participated in jogging/running in last 12 months 3,186 12.7% 104
Participated in motorcycling in last 12 months 757 3.0% 106
Participated in Pilates in last 12 months 594 2.4% 92
Participated in ping pong in last 12 months 712 2.8% 82
Participated in skiing (downhill) in last 12 months 385 1.5% 62
Participated in soccer in last 12 months 1,248 5.0% 118
Participated in softball in last 12 months 619 2.5% 86
Participated in swimming in last 12 months 3,349 13.3% 87
Participated in target shooting in last 12 months 1,000 4.0% 89
Participated in tennis in last 12 months 1,060 4.2% 117
Participated in volleyball in last 12 months 1,116 4.4% 131
Participated in walking for exercise in last 12 months 4,780 19.0% 80
Participated in weight lifting in last 12 months 2,451 9.7% 95
Participated in yoga in last 12 months 1,890 7.5% 91
Participated in Zumba in last 12 months 931 3.7% 113
Spent on sports/rec equip in last 12 months: $1-99 1,341 5.3% 91
Spent on sports/rec equip in last 12 months: $100-$249 1,350 5.4% 96
Spent on sports/rec equip in last 12 months: $250+ 1,666 6.6% 90
Attend sports events 3,527 14.0% 90
Attend sports events: baseball game - MLB reg seas 699 2.8% 58
Attend sports events: football game (college) 583 2.3% 73
Attend sports events: high school sports 735 2.9% 93
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 1 of 6
Sports and Leisure Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected 
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults/HHs Percent MPI
Listen to sports on radio 1,922 7.6% 74
Watch sports on TV 13,479 53.5% 95
Watch on TV: alpine skiing/ski jumping 903 3.6% 83
Watch on TV: auto racing (NASCAR) 1,452 5.8% 68
Watch on TV: auto racing (not NASCAR) 779 3.1% 78
Watch on TV: baseball (MLB regular season) 3,617 14.4% 77
Watch on TV: baseball (MLB playoffs/World Series) 3,508 13.9% 84
Watch on TV: basketball (college) 2,543 10.1% 73
Watch on TV: basketball (NCAA tournament) 2,704 10.7% 87
Watch on TV: basketball (NBA regular season) 4,025 16.0% 112
Watch on TV: basketball (NBA playoffs/finals) 4,157 16.5% 109
Watch on TV: basketball (WNBA) 742 2.9% 94
Watch on TV: bicycle racing 531 2.1% 97
Watch on TV: bowling 438 1.7% 90
Watch on TV: boxing 2,156 8.6% 142
Watch on TV: bull riding (pro) 502 2.0% 73
Watch on TV: Equestrian events 407 1.6% 74
Watch on TV: extreme sports (summer) 685 2.7% 88
Watch on TV: extreme sports (winter) 758 3.0% 82
Watch on TV: figure skating 1,358 5.4% 84
Watch on TV: fishing 721 2.9% 71
Watch on TV: football (college) 5,258 20.9% 89
Watch on TV: football (NFL Sunday/Monday/Thursday night games) 7,240 28.8% 95
Watch on TV: football (NFL weekend games) 6,583 26.1% 97
Watch on TV: football (NFL playoffs/Super Bowl) 6,643 26.4% 89
Watch on TV: golf (PGA) 2,211 8.8% 79
Watch on TV: golf (LPGA) 665 2.6% 81
Watch on TV: gymnastics 1,159 4.6% 98
Watch on TV: high school sports 920 3.7% 81
Watch on TV: horse racing (at track or OTB) 502 2.0% 75
Watch on TV: ice hockey (NHL regular season) 1,492 5.9% 81
Watch on TV: ice hockey (NHL playoffs/Stanley Cup) 1,343 5.3% 74
Watch on TV: mixed martial arts (MMA) 1,484 5.9% 127
Watch on TV: motorcycle racing 524 2.1% 91
Watch on TV: Olympics (summer) 2,538 10.1% 81
Watch on TV: Olympics (winter) 3,127 12.4% 80
Watch on TV: rodeo 502 2.0% 81
Watch on TV: soccer (MLS) 1,422 5.6% 126
Watch on TV: soccer (World Cup) 2,840 11.3% 136
Watch on TV: tennis (men`s) 1,329 5.3% 90
Watch on TV: tennis (women`s) 1,323 5.3% 92
Watch on TV: track & field 1,183 4.7% 130
Watch on TV: volleyball (pro beach) 668 2.7% 102
Watch on TV: wrestling (WWE) 1,257 5.0% 120
Interest in sports: college basketball Super Fan 873 3.5% 87
Interest in sports: college football Super Fan 1,952 7.8% 107
Interest in sports: golf Super Fan 377 1.5% 78
Interest in sports: high school sports Super Fan 561 2.2% 76
Interest in sports: MLB Super Fan 1,173 4.7% 96
Interest in sports: NASCAR Super Fan 457 1.8% 77
Interest in sports: NBA Super Fan 1,631 6.5% 123
Interest in sports: NFL Super Fan 2,920 11.6% 108
Interest in sports: NHL Super Fan 625 2.5% 75
Interest in sports: soccer Super Fan 1,252 5.0% 148
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 2 of 6
Sports and Leisure Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected 
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults/HHs Percent MPI
Member of AARP 2,362 9.4% 77
Member of charitable organization 700 2.8% 65
Member of church board 493 2.0% 77
Member of fraternal order 305 1.2% 60
Member of religious club 776 3.1% 94
Member of union 607 2.4% 70
Member of veterans club 494 2.0% 77
Attended adult education course in last 12 months 1,797 7.1% 93
Visited an aquarium in last 12 months     1,232 4.9% 87
Went to art gallery in last 12 months 1,465 5.8% 76
Attended auto show in last 12 months 1,329 5.3% 89
Did baking in last 12 months 4,746 18.8% 88
Barbecued in last 12 months 6,094 24.2% 92
Went to bar/night club in last 12 months 3,792 15.1% 89
Went to beach in last 12 months 7,114 28.3% 97
Played billiards/pool in last 12 months 1,827 7.3% 111
Played bingo in last 12 months 1,270 5.0% 111
Did birdwatching in last 12 months 755 3.0% 70
Played board game in last 12 months 3,620 14.4% 92
Read book in last 12 months 6,736 26.8% 86
Participated in book club in last 12 months 666 2.6% 90
Went on overnight camping trip in last 12 months 2,852 11.3% 94
Played cards in last 12 months 3,527 14.0% 85
Played chess in last 12 months 910 3.6% 104
Played computer game (offline w/software)/12 months 1,508 6.0% 85
Played computer game (online w/o software)/12 months 2,618 10.4% 89
Cooked for fun in last 12 months 4,092 16.3% 87
Did crossword puzzle in last 12 months 1,934 7.7% 82
Danced/went dancing in last 12 months 2,055 8.2% 108
Attended dance performance in last 12 months 1,083 4.3% 96
Dined out in last 12 months 11,575 46.0% 90
Flew a drone in last 12 months  769 3.1% 111
Attended state/county fair in last 12 months 3,027 12.0% 91
Participated in fantasy sports league last 12 months 1,094 4.3% 94
Did furniture refinishing in last 12 months 816 3.2% 84
Gambled at casino in last 12 months 3,481 13.8% 101
Gambled in Las Vegas in last 12 months 1,411 5.6% 136
Participate in indoor gardening/plant care 1,691 6.7% 78
Participated in genealogy in last 12 months  920 3.7% 89
Attended horse races in last 12 months 550 2.2% 90
Participated in karaoke in last 12 months 1,565 6.2% 162
Bought lottery ticket in last 12 months 8,769 34.8% 98
Played lottery 6+ times in last 30 days 2,324 9.2% 85
Bought lottery ticket in last 12 months: Daily Drawing 673 2.7% 81
Bought lottery ticket in last 12 months: Instant Game 4,511 17.9% 96
Bought lottery ticket in last 12 months: Mega Millions 4,465 17.7% 94
Bought lottery ticket in last 12 months: Powerball 5,255 20.9% 98
Attended a movie in last 6 months 15,572 61.8% 106
Attended movie in last 90 days: once/week or more 592 2.4% 95
Attended movie in last 90 days: 2-3 times a month 1,748 6.9% 118
Attended movie in last 90 days: once a month 2,734 10.9% 110
Attended movie in last 90 days: < once a month 8,961 35.6% 102
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: action 8,769 34.8% 114
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 3 of 6
Sports and Leisure Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected 
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults/HHs Percent MPI
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: adventure 9,607 38.2% 120
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: animation genre 5,090 20.2% 134
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: biography genre 3,002 11.9% 114
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: comedy 7,528 29.9% 119
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: crime 3,788 15.0% 128
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: drama 6,185 24.6% 109
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: family 2,989 11.9% 121
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: fantasy 5,230 20.8% 122
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: horror 2,631 10.4% 122
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: romance 1,756 7.0% 112
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: science fiction 5,974 23.7% 126
Movie genre seen at theater/6 months: thriller 3,904 15.5% 131
Went to museum in last 12 months 3,299 13.1% 89
Attended classical music/opera performance/12 months 776 3.1% 78
Attended country music performance in last 12 months 1,382 5.5% 86
Attended rock music performance in last 12 months 2,054 8.2% 85
Played musical instrument in last 12 months 1,473 5.8% 83
Did painting/drawing in last 12 months 1,729 6.9% 87
Did photo album/scrapbooking in last 12 months 784 3.1% 74
Did photography in last 12 months 1,941 7.7% 87
Did Sudoku puzzle in last 12 months 1,629 6.5% 79
Participated in tailgating in last 12 months 1,113 4.4% 107
Went to live theater in last 12 months 2,322 9.2% 81
Visited a theme park in last 12 months 5,881 23.4% 125
Visited a theme park 5+ times in last 12 months 1,364 5.4% 129
Participated in trivia games in last 12 months 1,327 5.3% 86
Played video/electronic game (console) last 12 months 2,257 9.0% 99
Played video/electronic game (portable) last 12 months 1,049 4.2% 97
Visited an indoor water park in last 12 months 630 2.5% 75
Did woodworking in last 12 months 927 3.7% 76
Participated in word games in last 12 months 2,116 8.4% 83
Went to zoo in last 12 months 3,629 14.4% 122
Purchased DVD/Blu-ray disc online in last 12 months 1,357 5.4% 90
Rented DVDs (movie or other video) in last 30 days: 1 627 2.5% 87
Rented DVDs (movie or other video) in last 30 days: 2 718 2.9% 102
Rented DVDs (movie or other video) in last 30 days: 3+ 1,611 6.4% 96
Rented movie or other video/30 days: action/adventure 5,486 21.8% 112
Rented movie or other video/30 days: classics 1,139 4.5% 80
Rented movie or other video/30 days: comedy 4,401 17.5% 98
Rented movie or other video/30 days: drama 3,474 13.8% 107
Rented movie or other video/30 days: family/children 2,442 9.7% 112
Rented movie or other video/30 days: foreign 382 1.5% 77
Rented movie or other video/30 days: horror 1,621 6.4% 100
Rented movie or other video/30 days: musical 730 2.9% 97
Rented movie or other video/30 days: news/documentary 1,025 4.1% 110
Rented movie or other video/30 days: romance 1,882 7.5% 118
Rented movie or other video/30 days: science fiction 1,859 7.4% 104
Rented movie or other video/30 days: TV show 1,652 6.6% 89
Rented movie or other video/30 days: western 703 2.8% 103
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 4 of 6
Sports and Leisure Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected 
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults/HHs Percent MPI
Rented/purchased DVD/Blu-ray/30 days: from amazon.com 2,098 8.3% 90
Rented DVD/Blu-ray/30 days: from netflix.com 3,177 12.6% 100
Rented/purchased DVD/Blu-ray/30 days: from Redbox 3,487 13.8% 110
HH owns ATV/UTV 370 3.7% 63
Bought any children`s toy/game in last 12 months 8,742 34.7% 109
Spent on toys/games for child last 12 months: $1-49 1,205 4.8% 89
Spent on toys/games for child last 12 months: $50-99 652 2.6% 112
Spent on toys/games for child last 12 months: $100-199 1,429 5.7% 95
Spent on toys/games for child last 12 months: $200-499 2,559 10.2% 111
Spent on toys/games for child last 12 months: $500+ 1,356 5.4% 111
Bought any toys/games online in last 12 months 3,084 12.2% 106
Bought infant toy in last 12 months 1,575 6.3% 99
Bought pre-school toy in last 12 months 1,619 6.4% 93
Bought for child last 12 months: boy action figure 1,982 7.9% 112
Bought for child last 12 months: girl action figure 1,204 4.8% 125
Bought for child last 12 months: action game 867 3.4% 112
Bought for child last 12 months: bicycle 1,825 7.2% 125
Bought for child last 12 months: board game 3,055 12.1% 103
Bought for child last 12 months: builder set 1,139 4.5% 87
Bought for child last 12 months: car 2,113 8.4% 110
Bought for child last 12 months: construction toy 1,234 4.9% 83
Bought for child last 12 months: fashion doll 1,150 4.6% 115
Bought for child last 12 months: large/baby doll 2,336 9.3% 138
Bought for child last 12 months: doll accessories 1,129 4.5% 115
Bought for child last 12 months: doll clothing 1,237 4.9% 125
Bought for child last 12 months: educational toy 3,176 12.6% 107
Bought for child last 12 months: electronic doll/animal 635 2.5% 91
Bought for child last 12 months: electronic game 1,749 6.9% 119
Bought for child last 12 months: mechanical toy 1,221 4.8% 110
Bought for child last 12 months: model kit/set 659 2.6% 87
Bought for child last 12 months: plush doll/animal 2,250 8.9% 105
Bought for child last 12 months: water toy 2,304 9.2% 107
Bought for child last 12 months: word game 730 2.9% 117
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 5 of 6
Sports and Leisure Market Potential
Kearns Metro Township, UT Prepared by Esri
Kearns Metro Township, UT (4940470)
Geography: Place
Expected 
Product/Consumer Behavior Number of Adults/HHs Percent MPI
Bought digital book in last 12 months 2,886 11.5% 87
Bought hardcover book in last 12 months 4,170 16.6% 83
Bought paperback book in last 12 months 6,686 26.6% 95
Bought 1-3 books in last 12 months 4,984 19.8% 101
Bought 4-6 books in last 12 months 2,248 8.9% 89
Bought 7+ books in last 12 months 3,191 12.7% 84
Bought book (fiction) in last 12 months 5,086 20.2% 84
Bought book (non-fiction) in last 12 months 5,040 20.0% 91
Bought biography in last 12 months 1,556 6.2% 88
Bought children`s book in last 12 months 2,289 9.1% 95
Bought cookbook in last 12 months 1,692 6.7% 101
Bought history book in last 12 months 1,711 6.8% 80
Bought mystery book in last 12 months 2,227 8.8% 84
Bought novel in last 12 months 2,643 10.5% 82
Bought religious book (Not Bible) in last 12 months 1,395 5.5% 92
Bought romance book in last 12 months 1,231 4.9% 94
Bought science fiction book in last 12 months 1,108 4.4% 78
Bought personal/business self-help book last 12 months 1,770 7.0% 109
Bought travel book in last 12 months 409 1.6% 71
Bought book online in last 12 months 4,345 17.3% 78
Listened to/purchased audiobook in last 6 months 1,757 7.0% 103
Data Note: An MPI (Market Potential Index) measures the relative likelihood of the adults or households in the specified trade area to exhibit certain consumer behavior or 
purchasing patterns compared to the U.S. An MPI of 100 represents the U.S. average.
Source: These data are based upon national propensities to use various products and services, applied to local demographic composition. Usage data were collected by 
GfK MRI in a nationally representative survey of U.S. households. Esri forecasts for 2020 and 2025.
July 02, 2020
©2020 Esri Page 6 of 6
TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT
METRO TOWNSHIP
2019
KEARNS
4.0 WHAT KEARNS HAS: LAND AND FACILITIES
 4.1 RESIDENTIAL
  Housing Type
  Available Housing and Household Occupancy
  Cost
  Cost-Burdened Housing
  Conditions of Housing
  Jobs and Housing Balance
 4.2 PUBLIC FACILITIES
  Safety and Services
 4.3 LAND AND ITS USE
  Zoning
  Parcels and Building Footprints
  Amenities
  Transportation
5.0 RESOURCES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.0 INTRODUCTION: THE KEARNS COMMUNITY
2.0 THE PEOPLE OF KEARNS: POPULATION AND DEMOGRAPHICS
 2.1 GENERAL POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS
  Population Analysis
  Age
  Households
  Race and Ethnicity
  Educational Attainment
3.0 FINANCES AND EMPLOYMENT: KEARNS’ ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
 3.1 INCOME
  Median Household Income
  Income Distribution
  Mean Household Income
  Per Capita Income
  Earnings by Gender
 3.2 EMPLOYMENT
  Employment by Industry
  Jobs by Occupation
  Labor Force Classes
  Unemployment Rate
  Location of Employment
  Commuting Methods
4
5
6
13
13
17
24
24
31
32
41
4 5
1.0 INTRODUCTION: 
THE KEARNS COMMUNITY
2.0 THE PEOPLE OF KEARNS: 
POPULATION AND DEMOGRAPHICS
Kearns is a metro township in Salt Lake County, 
Utah.  It occupies about 4.6 square miles in the 
western-central part of the county.  West Val -
ley City sits along Kearns’ northern and western 
borders, while Taylorsville lies to the east and 
West Jordan to the south.  The Oquirrh Moun -
tains run north to south just west of Kearns.  
Kearns has an interesting history.  The first inhab -
itants of Kearns were Ute people; they inhab -
itated the land that became Kearns through -
out their migrations around the Salt Lake Valley.  
The first LDS pioneers settled the area around 
1848.  Canal creation in the 1870s and expan -
Kearns had a population of 35,731 at the 
2010 census (Table 1).  Its 2017 population 
was 37 ,194.  Like neighboring cities and 
Salt Lake County, Kearns is expected to 
grow for the next several decades (Ta -
ble 2).  Kearns may reach 53,772 people 
by 2050.  Its predicted rate of growth, 
which hovers around 10% per decade, 
is lower than that of Salt Lake County.  
Continued growth will require Kearns to 
consider its transportation and civic in -
frastructure.  Sufficient housing, schools, 
and economic opportunities will be de -
manded by a growing population.
TABLE 1: General Population
TABLE 2: Historic And Projected Growth
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP05
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP05; Steven Manson, Jonathan Schroed -
er, David Van Riper, and Steven Ruggles. IPUMS National Historical Geographic Information Sys -
tem: Version 13.0 [Database]. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota. 2018. http://doi.org/10.18128/
D050.V13.0; ESRI Business Analyst Online, Demographic and Income Profile 2019.
Future population sizes were projected using 1990 and 
2010 populations. Eight potential projections were cal -
culated using five standard methods (linear, exponen -
tial, shift-share, share-of-growth, and constant-share). 
The average of those projection results is shown in Ta -
ble 2. Projections for 2023 (SLCo) and 2024 (Kearns) by 
ESRI Business analyst are also included. ESRI calcula -
tions utilized different methods, yet they correspond 
well with our projections. The projections show possi -
ble future scenarios for Kearns and Salt Lake County. 
It is important to note that population projections for 
low-populated areas are not highly accurate. Howev -
er, they can help guide the general scale for planning 
in an area. Furthermore, all projections showed low or 
moderate growth and were on similar orders of mag -
nitude.
CALCULATING POPULATION PROJECTIONSUNEMPLOYMENT RATE - 4.5 PERCENT
Unlike neighboring West Valley City, Salt Lake County, and the 
state of Utah, Kearns’ unemployment rate in 2017 was higher 
than it was in 2000.
PER CAPITA INCOME - $18,993
Kearns’ 2017 per capita income was only 60 percent of that of 
Salt Lake County.
EARNINGS BY GENDER - $31,439 FEMALE & $37,972 MALE
Median earnings for men experienced a decline between 
2010 and 2017.  However, male median earnings still exceed -
ed female earnings by $6,000.
During World War II, Kearns became “Camp Ke-
arns,” a troop training facility for American sol -
diers.  Camp Kearns housed around 40,000 res -
idents.  Many people stayed only briefly.  When 
the war ended, Camp Kearns was closed.  Ex -
isting infrastructure made the prior military site 
attractive for developers.  Houses sprung up, 
and Kearns became a township.  Only two for -
mer military buildings are still standing.
Source: http://www.kearnsutah.org/about-kearns/
HIGHLIGHTS
sion in the 1880s allowed agriculture to expand 
into the area.
6 7
A program by ESRI Business Analyst characterizes populations.  By taking these characteristics into 
account, civil servants can plan in ways tailored to the community.  These characteristics indicate 
what economic development may thrive in a community.  Kearns is characterized by the groups: 
“American Dreamers,” “Up and Coming Families,” and “Home Improvement.” American Dreamers 
make up 50.2% of the population, while 25.4% of the population is Up and Coming Families and 
16.8% is Home Improvement. 
AMERICAN DREAMERS  are a racially diverse, multigenerational group who work hard, spend mon -
ey carefully on necessities, and appreciate new technology.  52.1 percent of people are white, 
44.4 percent of people are Hispanic, 20.0 percent of people are black, and 27 .8 percent identify 
as another race or races.  Oftentimes, three generations of families live together, typically in a sin -
gle-family home.  Favorite leisure activities include visiting theme parks during the summer.  They en -
joy fast-food and family-friendly chain restuarants.  Their economic conditions are less affluent than 
the average American household; indeed, their median household income ($50,900) and median 
net worth ($59,400) fall below the national averages ($56,100 and $93,300, respectively).  Reflective 
of their economic conditions, their budget for all consumer categories is less than the U.S. averages.  
UP AND COMING FAMILIES is a quickly growing group in the United States.  Their median household 
income of $72,000, about $16,000 over the national average.  Their median net worth is $122,700, 
which includes the typical value of their single-family house ($194,000) while subtracting their student 
loans and credit card debts.  63.7 percent of people are white, 27 .3 percent are Hispanic, and 15.3 
percent are black.  This racial composition is more diverse than the national average but less diverse 
than the American Dreamers.  Like American Dreamers, they are younger, hardworking families. They 
have a high workforce participation rate, high educational attainment, and two or more workers 
per household.  They shop carefully but spend more than the U.S average budget for every consum -
er category except transportation.  This group looks toward a variety of family activities for fun and 
relaxation, such as outings to parks or zoos but also jogs in the neighborhood or movie-watching. 
2.1 GENERAL POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS HOME IMPROVEMENT households are likely to consist of married-couple families who own and oc -
cupy single family houses.  69 percent of households are white.  Many households have two or more 
sources of income, and they are careful consumers.  However, their median household income is 
$72,100, well above the national average, and their net worth is $190,400.  This group tends to be 
very busy.  They commute several hours per week and often spend weekends on-the-go.  When at 
home, they engage in home improvement projects, watch television on a big screen tv, and eat out 
at family restaurants and fast food joints.  
Age is an important consideration in 
community planning.  Different age 
groups generally have differing needs 
and seek different amenities.  Kearns 
has a younger community.  As of 2017 , 
Kearns had a median age of 29.6 years 
(Table 3).  Not only was Kearns’ median 
age well below the national value (37 .8 
years), but it was also lower than the 
values of Utah, Salt Lake County, and 
West Valley City.  Similar to other plac -
es, Kearns’ population has slowly aged.  
While its 2000 median age was only 26.1 
years, ESRI predicts KEearns will have a 
2024 median age of 30.7 years. 
TABLE 3: Median Age Over Time
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP05; ESRI Business Analyst Online, 
Detailed Age Profile 2019.
Note: ESRI predicted median age for Kearns in 2024 and for SLCo in 2023.
The population pyramid on the following page (Figure 1) provides a visual depiction of Kearns’ pop -
ulation by sex and age. As years pass, blocks move up into older age brackets; as people pass away, 
blocks shorten in width. Because needs and preferences often vary across age groups, understand -
ing age structure in a community is important.
Age
Population Analysis
8 9
2500 2000 1500 1000 500 0 500 1000 1500 2000
    Under 5 years
    5 to 9 years
    10 to 14 years
    15 to 19 years
    20 to 24 years
    25 to 29 years
    30 to 34 years
    35 to 39 years
    40 to 44 years
    45 to 49 years
    50 to 54 years
    55 to 59 years
    60 to 64 years
    65 to 69 years
    70 to 74 years
    75 to 79 years
    80 to 84 years
    85 years and over
Number of People
Age Bracket (years)
Male Female
Kearns’ population pyramid  
shows a transitioning popula -
tion. The youngest generations 
have more people than the 
young adult and middle-aged 
generations.  This suggests future 
growth: when these younger 
people grow up, the reproduc -
tive-age brackets will be larger 
than they are currently.  Howev-
er, the pyramid shows intergen -
erational oscillation. “Booms” 
are apparent in the 0 to 14 and 
25 to 39-year age brackets, while 
the 15 to 24-year age bracket is 
a “bust”. When bust groups oc -
cupy reproductive-age brack -
ets, the number of children born 
are typically less than that born 
to previous boom groups.  These 
booms and busts suggest that, 
while continuing to grow for the 
next few years, the population  
growth rate may slow and the 
population may stabilize. 
FIGURE 1: Kearns 2019 Population Pyramid
Source: ESRI Business Analyst Online, Detailed Age Profile 2019.
Another way to examine age is through 
broad (Table 4) and narrow (Table 5) 
age groups.   About one-third of the 
population of Kearns is children under 
18 years old.  In 2019, the most popu -
lous age group is 5 to 14-year olds, who 
number 6,465.  The second most popu -
lous age group is the 25 to 34-year olds 
at 6,358.  In 2024, these groups will like -
ly remain the two highest populated 
groups.
TABLE 4: Broad Age Groups In Kearns
TABLE 5: Narrow Age Groups In Kearns
Source: ESRI Business Analyst Online, Detailed Age Profile 2019.
Source: ESRI Business Analyst Online, Detailed Age Profile 2019.
10 11
The average household size  in Kearns was 3.75 in 2017 . This exceeded that of West Valley City, Salt 
Lake County, and Utah.  Kearns’ average household size increased from 2000 to 2017 (Table 6) by 
about 2.9 percent. This growth trend reflects that of neighboring West Valley City, but differs from 
the decreasing or stable trends present in Salt Lake County and Utah.  Household size in Kearns may 
begin decreasing; however, it will likely remain above county, state, and national averages.
TABLE 6: Average Household Size
Between 2000 and 2010, the number of households in Kearns grew by 6 percent (Table 7). This growth 
mirrored the population growth of 6 percent in the same period.  Between 2010 and 2017 , Kearns’ 
households grew by 4 percent, from 9,780 to 10,190. The population growth rate in that period was 
also 4 percent.  Kearns’ housing appears to keep up with population growth.  However, housing 
availability and affordability is a growing concern in the Salt Lake valley and may impact Kearns.
Kearns is more racially and ethnically diverse  than many others towns in Salt Lake County.  About 66.1 
percent of the 2019 population was white (Table 8).  In 2019, 21.0 percent of the population identified 
as some other race.  4 percent identified as two or more races while 3 percent identified as Native 
Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander.  Kearns will become increasingly racially diverse over the next 
years.  
People of any racial identity who identify as Hispanic or Latino/a have comprised an increasing per -
centage of the population. In 2010, 32.5 percent of the population were Hispanic or Latino/a, while 
in 2019 36.3 percent of the population were Hispanic or Latino/a. This percentage is expected to rise 
to almost 40 percent in 2024.
TABLE 8: Kearns Racial And Ethnic Distribution
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP01 and DP04; ESRI Business Analyst Online, Detailed Age Profile 2019.
TABLE 7: Number Of Households
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP01 and DP04; ESRI Business Analyst Online, Detailed Age Profile 2019.
Source: ESRI Business Analyst Online, Demographic and Income Profile 2019.
Households Race and Ethnicity
12 13
Higher educational attainment corresponds to greater job choice, higher wages, and better quality 
of life. Kearns has experienced a growth in the population whose highest level of formal education 
is less than 9th grade (Table 9a).  This number increased by 51 percent, from 1,176 to 1,773 people,  
(Table 9b). In 2010 and 2017 , the mode education level attained was high school graduate (37 and 
33 percent of the population).  The share of the population with an associate or bacherlor’s degree 
remained unchanged over those seven years, although the raw count increased.
TABLE 9A: Educational Attainment, 
Percentage Of Total Population
3.0 FINANCES AND EMPLOYMENT: 
KEARNS’ ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
TABLE 9B: Educational 
Attainment, Count
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table S1501
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table S1501
3.1 INCOME
Median household income (MHI) is the middle amount when listing all household incomes from low 
to high. MHI is a better indicator of the typical household income in a place than the mean or aver -
age household income if there are low or high outliers that artificially pull the average. Kearns’ me -
dian household income in 2010 was $52,750 (Table 10). By 2017 , median household income had risen 
13 percent to $59,543.  This reflected neighboring West Valley City’s median household income of 
$59,954.  Despite growth since 2010, Kearns’ MHI in 2017 was almost $12,000 under Salt Lake County’s 
MHI. Kearns’ MHI was also significantly less than that of Utah as a whole, at $68,358.
TABLE 10: Median Household Income
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP03
Median Household Income
Educational Attainment
Kearns’ educational attainment patterns differ significantly from Salt Lake County. In Salt Lake Coun -
ty, the percentage of people whose highest education level was some college or below decreased. 
The percentage of people whose highest education level was a college degree or above increased. 
In general, Salt Lake County residents became more formally educated between 2010 and 2017 .
14 15
Mean household income  is the average income of all households in the area of consideration. Like 
MHI, mean household income for Kearns increased between 2010 and 2017 (Table 11). It rose from 
$59,984 to $66,723. Mean income slightly exceeds median income, which indicates some households 
have high outlying incomes. Compared to Salt Lake County, Kearns’ mean household income was 
much lower; for example, in 2017 , mean household income reached $91,338 in Salt Lake County 
compared to Kearns’ $66,723.
FIGURE 2: Household Income Distribution in 2000 (top) and 2017 (Bottom)
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP03
Income Distribution
The increase in Kearns’ 
MHI between 2010 and 
2017 is visible by the 
percentage of house -
holds in various income 
categories. Household 
income distribution 
in Figure 2 depicts a 
clear rightward shift of 
household income be -
tween 2000 and 2017 .  
Over these seventeen 
years, the percentage 
of people making more 
than $50,000 to $75,000 
increased from 16 per -
cent to 36 percent.  Si -
multaneously, the per -
centage of people 
making under $35,000 
decreased from 57 per-
cent to 40 percent. 
Mean Household Income
TABLE 1 1: Mean Household 
Income by Source, Count (top) 
and Percentage of Households (bottom)
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact 
Finder Table DP03
16 17
Per capita income  is the total income divided 
by the total population, thus giving the income 
per person. Kearns’ per capita income was 
$17 ,483 in 2010 (Table 12). It increased 8 per -
cent, to $18,933, in 2017 . This rate of growth sig-
nificantly trailed behind that of West Valley City, 
Salt Lake County, and Utah. Kearns’ per capita 
income is $10,000 below the Utah state value 
and only 60 percent of the per capita income 
for Salt Lake County. 
Median earnings by gender  from 2010 to 2017 
are shown for Kearns, West Valley City, Salt Lake 
County, and Utah (Table 13). Womens’ medi -
an earnings increased in all jurisdictions over 
the time period. Males in Kearns experienced 
a decrease in median earnings between 2010 
and 2017 .  While their median earnings only 
decreased by under $200 and negative 0.5 
percent, this stands in stark contrast to the ex -
perience of female workers in any jurisdiction 
and male workers in other jurisdictions.  It merits 
investigation.  It is also important to note that, 
while male median earnings decreased over 
time, 2017 male earnings still exceeded 2017 fe-
male earnings by $6,500. 
TABLE 12: Per Capita Income
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP03
TABLE 13: Median Earnings by Gender
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP03
Per Capita Income
Earnings by Gender
3.2 EMPLOYMENT
The breakdown of employment by industry  is important for understanding the job culture, opportu -
nities, and limitations in an area.  In 2017 , the most employed industry for Kearns was manufacturing 
(Table 14). About 17 .2 percent of working Kearns residents were employed in this industry. Retail trade 
employed the second most amount of people; retail trade accounted for about 13.1 percent of Ke -
arns employment.  Other well-represented industries were educational services and health care at 
12.8 percent and professional and scientific management at 11.9 percent.
What industries employed the most and least Kearns residents changed significantly between 2010 
and 2017 .  Employment in different sectors changed by more than 20 percent in all but two catego -
ries.  Employment in agriculture, forestry, and mining, for example, increased by 500 percent, while 
employment in public administration decreased by 31 percent. 
The distribution of employment in West Valley City was similar to that of Kearns. Salt Lake County and 
Utah employed more people in educational services and health care but less people in manufac -
turing or construction.
Employment by Industry
18 19
TABLE 14: Employment by Industry
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP03
The U.S. Census Bureau summarizes jobs by occupation as well as employment by industry. There are 
five main categories of occupations: one – management, business, science, and arts; two – service; 
three – sales and office; four – natural resources, construction, and maintenance; and five – produc -
tion, transportation, and material moving.Kearns saw minimal changes in its occupation makeup 
from 2010 to 2017 . Categories one, two, and five increased. Categories three and four decreased. 
Even though occupations in category three, sales and office, decreased, it remained the highest 
employer, employing almost one-third of Kearns residents.  Kearns and West Valley City display simi -
lar occupation distributions to each other but differ significantly from Salt Lake County, Utah, and the 
U.S. (Table 15).  Kearns and West Valley employ far fewer people in management, business, science, 
and arts but far more in production, transportation, and material moving. 
TABLE 15: Employment by Occupations, 2017
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP03
Jobs by Occupation
20 21
The U.S. Census Bureau also divides workers in labor force classes.  Categories include private, gov -
ernment, self-employed, and unpaid family workers. The vast majority (88 percent) of Kearns’ work -
ers in 2017 were private wage and salary workers. This mimicked but exceeded the percentage of 
the county, state, and national averages, which hovered at and just above 80 percent. The other 12 
percent of Kearns’ workers were in government positions (10 percent) and self-employed in own not 
incorporated businesses (2 percent).
From 2010 through 2017 , Kearns experienced an opposite pattern regarding unemployment rate  
compared to the county, state, and even neighboring West Valley (Table 16).  While all places ex -
perienced a spike in unemployment during the Great Recession and its aftermath (seen in 2010 
numbers), Salt Lake County, Utah, and West Valley City recovered.  Their 2017 unemployment levels 
fell below their pre-recession, 2000 unemployment levels.  For Kearns, however, 2017 unemployment 
(4.5 percent) remains higher than 2000 levels (3.9 percent).  Kearns’ 2017 rate exceeds the national 
average of 4 percent as well.  These statistics suggest a need for Kearns’ general plan to delve into 
economic development and security. 
TABLE 16: Employment by Occupations, 2017
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP03
Unemployment Rate
Labor Force Classes
 Location of 
Employment
18,474 of the 37 ,194 people living in Kearns 
were employed in 2017 (Table 17).  Most 
(99.2 percent) of working Kearns residents 
worked in Utah, and 94.4 percent worked 
within Salt Lake County.  Over 4,000 Kearns 
residents worked in Salt Lake City in 2015 
(Figure 3); as such, most outbound com -
mutes travelled northeasternly (Figure 4A).  
West Valley City employed over 2,000 Ke -
arns residents.
TABLE 17: General Location of Employment, 2017
FIGURE 3: Where Residents Work, 2015 Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table S0801
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, On the Map
Commuting patterns include 
the time, distance, and di -
rection of residents to work 
and back again (Figures 4A 
& B). Long commuting times 
or limited commuting op -
tions reduce the number and 
types of jobs available to a 
community. Long commutes 
also negatively impact qual -
ity of life.
22 23
FIGURE 4B: Workers Commut -
ing into Kearns, 2015
FIGURE 4A: Kearns’ Residents 
CommutingDestinations, 2015
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, On the Map
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, On the Map
Commuting Methods
METHODS USED BY KEARNS’ RESIDENTS, 2017
TABLE 18: Commuting Patterns
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP03

24 25
4.0 WHAT KEARNS HAS: 
LAND AND FACILITIES
Kearns occupies about 4.6 square miles in the western-central part of the county.  West Valley City 
sits along Kearns’ northern and western borders, while Taylorsville lies to the east and West Jordan to 
the south.  The Oquirrh Mountains run north to south just west of Kearns.  In the following pages, the 
assessment delves into more specific spatial patterns with regard to housing, zoning, parcels, build -
ing footprints, transportation, public systems, and community amenities.
HOUSING TYPE, NUMBER OF UNITS, RATIO OF VACANT TO OCCUPIED UNITS, AND COSTS PROVIDE 
INSIGHT INTO LIVING AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.  THEY ALSO CONVEY A COMMUNITY’S HOUSING 
PREFERENCES AND POINT TO A COMMUNITY’S PRESENT AND FUTURE HOUSING NEEDS.
Kearns has experienced growth in owner-occupied, renter-occupied, and vacant units over the 
past two decades (Table 20).  Between 2000 and 2019, about 400 owner-occupied units were built 
and approximately 700 units for rent were built.  Both are expected to continue increasing through 
2024.  The number of vacant units grew by 85 percent from 2000 to 2010.  Underlying economic con -
ditions may explain the sharp increase in vacant properties.  However, from 2010 to 2017 , the number 
of vacant properties essentially stabilized (Table 21).  West Valley City and Salt Lake County both saw 
significant declines in the number of vacant properties during this period.
Housing Type
The predominant type of housing in Kearns is 
the detached single unit (Table 19).  The num -
ber of detached single units grew slightly be -
tween 2010 and 2017 .  Attached single units 
experienced a decline of 42 percent, from 171 
to 100 units.  Mobile homes also experienced a 
decline.  While mobile homes were the second 
most popular housing type in 2010, they de -
creased by 53 percent and became the third 
most popular housing type in 2017 .  Apartment 
complexes housing 2 and 10 to 19 units are on 
the rise.  
Available Housing and Household Occupancy
TABLE 19: Housing Types in Kearns TABLE 20: Available Housing in Kearns
TABLE 21: Houshold Occupancy
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP04
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP03; ESRI Business Analyst Online , Demographic and 
Income Profile 2019.
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP04
4.1 RESIDENTIAL
26 27
Similar to West Valley City 
and the county, state, and 
nation, Kearns has experi -
enced growth in median 
monthly gross rent and me -
dian home value of own -
er-occupied homes (Table 
22).  Median monthly gross 
rent increased by 14 per -
cent from 2010 to 2017 .  This 
growth rate slightly exceeds 
that of median income 
during the same time.  Be -
cause median income grew 
less rapidly (13 percent), 
some households may have 
experienced an increased 
cost-burden.  Contrasting -
ly, median monthly owner 
costs decreased over this 
period.  
Costs
TABLE 22: Median Rental and House Cost Comparison (U.S. Dollars)
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP04
The county-wide trend of population growth outpacing available housing leads to questions about 
housing affordability. Cost-burdened housing is defined as households who spend more than 30 
percent of their income on housing. When housing costs more than 30 percent of income, money 
is not available to meet needs such as food, heat or other utilities, transportation, or clothing. Thus, 
families who are cost-burdened must sacrifice some needs to maintain being housed. People who 
are housing cost-burdened have a high risk of becoming unable to pay their housing costs. This spi -
rals to people being forced from their homes and leads to homelessness.
In 2017 , 26.6 percent of the Kearns population was cost-burdened (Table 23A). Another 25.1 percent 
were at risk for being housing cost-burdened, as they spent 20 percent to 29 percent of their income 
on housing. If housing costs increase faster than income, these households may cross the 30 percent 
threshold. Households can be cost-burdened with their housing at any income bracket. In Kearns, 
all five income brackets, from households making under $20,000 anually to those making greater 
than $75,000 annually, have cost-burdened households.  While one-quarter of the population ex -
perienced cost-burdened housing in 2017, this marked a significant improvement from 2010.  In 2010, 
36.6 percent were cost-burdened with their housing (Table 23B).
Cost-Burdened Housing
28 29
Those who were cost-burdened in Kearns, West Valley City, Salt Lake County and Utah in 2017 are 
shown in Table 24. Income brackets with at least 10 percent of households being cost-burdened 
are highlighted in red. Compared to Salt Lake County and Utah, Kearns has a similar percentage 
of households who were cost-burdened.  West Valley City has a significantly higher percentage (37 
percent) of cost-burdened households.  For all places, renters were more likely to be cost-burdened.  
42% of Kearns renters, from any income bracket, experienced cost-burdened housing.  The most 
cost-burdened income bracket type in Kearns was renters making between $20,000 and $34,999 
annually.  
TABLE 23B: Cost-burdened Housing, 2010
TABLE 23A: Cost-burdened Housing, 2017
TABLE 24: Percentage of Income Bracket who are Cost-Burdened with Housing, 2017
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table S2503
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table S2503
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table S2503
30 31
From 2010 to 2017 , housing conditions in Kearns were reportedly good. No housing units lacked com-
plete plumbing facilities in 2017 (Table 25). Most housing (64 percent) was at least 49 years old (built 
before 1980). Therefore, upkeep and maintenance costs for homeowners are likely high. While 2.3 
percent of housing units had no telephone services in 2010, that percentage had improved to 1.3 
percent by 2017.  
Conditions of Housing
TABLE 25: Conditions of Housing
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Table DP04
The jobs and housing balance describe the 
ratio of jobs to people in a place. Kearns’ 
employment – population ratio was 0.48 for 
2010 and 0.50 for 2017 (Table 26). In other 
words, for every 100 people, 48 or 50 were 
employed. This was well below the recom -
mended ratio of 1.25 to 1.75. Kearns’ em -
ployment – housing unit ratio was slightly 
high at 1.83 in 2017 . This means that for ev -
ery 100 housing units, 183 people were em -
ployed. Ratios for Kearns were on par with 
Salt Lake County.
Jobs and Housing Balance
TABLE 26: Jobs and Housing Balance
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, American Fact Finder Tables DP04 and DP05
4.2 PUBLIC FACILITIES
Safety and Services
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling serves Kearns’ waste needs.  Garbage collection occurs on 
Mondays.  The Kearns Improvement District provides water and sewer services.  Kearns’ public safety 
is served by the Unified Police Department and Unified Fire Authority. The Kearns precinct houses one 
Chief, one Lieutenant, and one Administrative Assistant, as well as two investigative units that include 
a victims advocate.  Kearns is divided into five patrol districts, served by a total of 24 UPD employees.  
On the eastern-central side of town is the Unified Fire Authority Station 109.
Crime data for Kearns individually were not available. However, the Utah Department of Public 
Safety produces an annual report of crimes that occurred in the areas served by the Unified Police 
of Great Salt Lake. As Kearns is one of these areas, the crime statistics can be used as a general 
estimate. The areas served by the Unified Police have significantly lower crime rates than Salt Lake 
County from 2010 through 2017 (Table 28).
TABLE 27: Crime Rates
Source: Utah Department of Public Safety, Crime in Utah Reports 2010, 2014, , and 2017
32 33
4.3 LAND AND ITS USE
Zoning
Zoning in Kearns is predominantly residential (Figure 5 and Map 1: Zoning).  The most common resi -
dential zone is R 1-6 and R 1-6/zc.  55.95 percent of Kearns’ land is zoned R 1-6 or R 1-6/zc (1,298 acres 
or 2 square miles).  The second most common residential zone is R 1-7 , which occupies 375 acres or 16 
percent of the land.  168 acres are zoned R 1-8, and 95 acres are zoned R 1-43.  R 1-6, R 1-7 , and R 1-8 
are single-family dwelling zones.  R 1-43, while also a single-family dwelling zone, has more permitted 
and conditional uses, such as fowl for family food production or greenhouses.
There are 17 .2 acres of land 
zoned for medium residen -
tial density (zones 2-6.5 and 
4-8.5).  29.2 acres are zoned 
for mobile home parks 
(zone RMH).  45.5 acres 
are zoned for high-density 
residential (zones R-M and 
R-M/zc). 
122.7 acres are zoned in -
dustrial (M1 or M2).  Zone 
M1 occupies 4 percent of 
Kearns’ land while zone M2 
takes up 1.2 percent.
74.3 acres are zoned com -
mercial, with the majority 
zone C2 or C2/zc and only 
0.4 acres zoned C3.
FIGURE 5: Percent of Total Area for each Zone
34 35
Parcels and Building Footprints
Parcels and building footprints are displayed in the following maps.  Most residential parcels are sim -
ilarly sized (Map 2: Parcels).  Larger parcels include land used for school, government, and commer -
cial buildings.  There is an interesting spatial pattern regarding building types.  Commercial buildings 
are found in five clusters, in the northwest, northeast, east-central, south-central, and west-southern.  
Schools are distributed approximately evenly throughout the township.  Government buildings are 
found near commercial buildings in three of the five clusters.

36 37
Amenities
Kearns hosts many public and community facilities (Map 3: Amenities).  Amenities are clustered along 
W 5415 S, which runs east-west through the center of Kearns.  The police sub-station, fire station, and 
public library are off W 5415 S.  The public library is currently closed due to construction of a new 
library on that site (see leftmost image below).  The new library will open in 2020 at approximately 
three-times the square footage.  Most grocery stores are located along W 5415 S as well.  Many gro -
cery stores in Kearns are local markets or Utah-specific chains with an Hispanic emphasis, such as 
Utah-chain Rancho Markets, Mexican grocery store Azteca De Oro, and local, family-owned Stan’s 
Market.  These grocery stores are clustered along W 5425 S in the easternmost section of Kearns.  
One grocery store, Harmons, is located along 6200 S in the central and southern part of Kearns.  A 
senior center is located in the central and northernmost part of Kearns; it sits just beneath 4700 S.  
Sources: https://www.deseretnews.com/article/900027516/; https://slco.org/parks/lodestone-regional-park/
Kearns offers several parks.  Lodestone Regional Park, at 6252 West and 6200 South, offers 60 acres 
with restrooms, a pavillion, two playgrounds, a zip line, tennis courts, pickleball courts, a basketball 
court, and a sports field (see rightmost figure below).  There are two Class Two Regional Parks.  David 
Gourley Park has restrooms, a pavillion, picnic tables, bbq stand, a playground, volleyball courts, 
horsehoes, and walkways/jogging paths.  Oquirrh Park offers restrooms, a skate park, ball fields, and 
a sports field. There are several neighborhood parks.  2.8 acre North Park offers a playground; Moun -
tain Man Park (5.1 acres) and Bruce Field Park (3.6 acre) both provide restrooms, a playground, and 
a sports field.  A long, thin vertical strip of open space runs from 6200 South to 5400 South.  Addition -
ally, the 2002 Winter Olympic Oval is located in Kearns.  It has public skating opportunities.

38 39
Transportation
Three different road classes run through Kearns (Map 4: Road Classes).  Most roads are Class C - 
Municipality.  Two roads are Class A - State roads; these are W 5415 S and 5600 W.  Some roads are 
private.  These are in the northwest industrial area and the southern apartment complex.  
Most of the Class C - Municipality roads in Kearns have a 25 mile per hour speed limit (Map 5: 
Speed Limits).  The private roads also have a posted speed limit of 25 miles per hour.  The larger 
roads have higher posted speed limtis.  S 4800 W and 6200 South both go from 25 to 35 miles per 
hour.  4700 South and 5600 West vary between 35 and 40 miles per hour.  The only road that reach-
es 45 miles per hour is W 5415 S.
Kearns is served by multiple bus routes but no commuter trains or light rail.  Buses 41, 47 , 54, 240, 
248, and F556 all serve Kearns.  41, 47 , and 54 run every 15 minutes.  240 and 248 run every 30 min -
utes.  F556 is a flex bus; in other words, riders can request up to a 0.75 mile route deviation.  This 
allows riders to reach destinations through public transport that are not typically accessible.
Source: https://www.rideuta.com/Services/Flex-Routes
40 41
5.0 
RESOURCES
1. United States Census Bureau: American Fact Finder and On the Map
Tables: S2503, S1501, B08130, DP05, DP04, DP03, and DP1 
2. ESRI Business Analyst Online
Reports: Demographic and Income Comparison Profile, Tapestry Segment Profile, 
and Detailed Age Profile
3. Utah Department of Public Safety
Reports: 2010, 2014, and 2017 Crime in Utah
4. Kearns Metro Township: http://www.kearnsutah.org/about-kearns/
5. Salt Lake County Parks: https://slco.org/parks/parks-list/
6. Unified Fire Authority: http://www.unifiedfire.org/about/default.asp
7 . Unified Police: https://www.updsl.org/
8. Wasatch Front Waste & Recycling District: https://wasatchfrontwaste.org/
9.  Kearns Improvement District: http://www.kearnsid.org/
 
 
 
Kearns Metro Township General Plan 
Update 2021 – 2026 
 
Public Outreach and Participation 
DRAFT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Kearns General Plan Update   2 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
Kearns Metro Township Council 
Kelly Bush, Chair/Mayor 
Tina Snow, Vice Chair/Deputy Mayor 
Ruby Brown (former) 
Chrystal Butterfield 
Al Peterson 
Patrick Schaeffer 
       Figure 1.  Kearns Metro Township Council meeting. 
 
Kearns Planning Commission 
Jerry Wellman, Chair & District 1 
Joy Nelson, Vice Chair & District 3 
Joe Hatch, District 4 
Nathan Bush, District 5* 
Laura Koester, District 5* 
Jeff Robinson (former) 
 
*Pending Appointment 
 
 
Figure 2.  Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission meeting. 
 
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service District 
Planning and Development Services Staff 
Bart Barker, General Manager  Travis Hair, Planner II  
Brian Hartsell, Associate General Manager  Julia Friedman, Planner I 
Marla Howard, Chief Financial Officer  Shad Cook, Planning Technician 
Brooke Barnes, Human Resources & Payroll Specialist  Chara Ellis, Accountant 
Lupita McClenning, Director of Planning & Development  Greg Baptist, Stormwater Inspection Supervisor 
Izabela Miller, Operations Officer  Mike Sena, SWPP/Grading Stormwater Inspector 
Trent Sorensen, Chief Building Official  Mark Urry, Building Grading Stormwater Inspector 
Ina Oviatt, Office Coordinator & Records Officer  Mike George, Building Grading Review Specialist 
Maridene Alexander, Communications Manager  Tiffany Bork, Business License Stormwater Specialist 
Max Johnson, Long Range Planner  Kirk Boyington, Senior Building Inspector 
Kate Davies, Long Range Planner  Ed Molitoris, Senior Building Inspector 
Mikala Jordan, Long Range Planner  Jamie Sims, Plans Examiner 
Daniel Quintanilla, Long Range Planner  Shawna Winter, Building Permit Technician 
Joe Borgione, Senior GIS Analyst  Deborah Garner, Business License Supervisor 
Alex Rudowski, GIS Analyst/Planner  Patricia Rust, Business License & Permit Technician 
Rachel Manko, Business Analyst  Steve Szemerey, Code Enforcement Supervisor 
Janeth Marroquin, Technical Support Specialist  Sally Anderson, Code Enforcement Officer 
Wendy Gurr, Planning Coordinator  Tom Zumbado, Code Enforcement Officer 
Todd Draper, Planner II  Alicia Gonzalez, Code Enforcement Officer 
Jim Nakamura, Planner II  Chris Mowery, Code Enforcement Office 
Diana Martinez, Planner II   
Table 1.  Planning and Development Services staff. 
 
 

Kearns General Plan Update   3 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
 
 
Planning and Development Services 
 
Planning and Development Services serves the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) and the 
unincorporated area of Salt Lake County Planning and Development is a multi-disciplinary agency specializing 
in community planning, graphic information systems, emergency management and economic development.  A 
listing of the MSD employees, along with the wide range of available resources, skills, and experience the staff 
can utilize to deliver exceptional and timely results is shown in Table 1. 
 
Planning and Development is committed to providing creative solutions that ensure compatibility between the 
existing, new, built, and the natural environments. 
 
Kearns 
 
Kearns Metro Township is situated in the 
northwest quadrant of Salt Lake County, 
and one of five metro townships in Salt 
Lake County.  The Kearns Metro 
Township was created by its constituents, 
who in November of 2015 elected to 
become a local government.  This step 
formalized the creation of the MSD, and 
formal organization and implementation of 
the MSD began in earnest in January of 
2016.  The Kearns Metro Township 
formally took effect in January of 2017. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.  Commercial photo in Kearns. 
 
Public Outreach 
 
Community engagement is a vital part of the General Plan process, and key to a successful project.  The civic 
engagement process includes input from community groups, residents, a steering committee, the Kearns 
Metro Township Planning Commission, and the Kearns Metro Township Council.  In addition, input from these 
groups as well as collaboration and support from various elected officials throughout the region helps maintain 
a layer of transparency necessary for effective decision-making.  Engagement to thoroughly understand the 
universe of alternatives on a case by case basis is critical to successful governance. 
 
The public outreach effort launched for the first update to this plan since 2012, currently includes several 
events to date.  A summary of these events is shown in Table 2 below.  Preparations began in earnest in 
October 2019 to initiate the process by forming a Steering Committee with the direction and input from the 
Kearns Council.  A community-wide process to formally kick-off the update process occurred on December 18, 

Kearns General Plan Update   4 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
2019.  The following summary of events is a comprehensive list since direction to proceed was authorized by 
the Kearns Council in October and November of 2019. 
 
Chronological Listing of Public Engagement Opportunities 
Date Event and Purpose Recap 
September 28, 2019 Moderate-income Housing Plan Housing Plan Workshop to inform the Metro’s of the upcoming MIH 
Plan, and choose supportive options to be finalized for adoption by 
end of 2019 
October 14, 2019 Planning Commission Recommend adoption of MIH Plan 
November 12, 2019 Township Council Staff update to Council on upcoming GP process 
November 19, 2019 Township Council Adopt MIH Plan 
November 25, 2019 Steering Committee Mtg. #1 Initial Steering Committee meeting 
December 2, 2019 Steering Committee Mtg. #2 Meeting to help advance the plan toward future adoption 
December 9, 2019 Planning Commission Staff update to the Planning Commission on the structure of the GP 
process and upcoming Community Workshop kick-off event 
December 9, 2019 Township Council Staff update to the Council on the structure of the GP process and 
upcoming Community Workshop kick-off event 
December 16, 2019 Steering Committee Mtg. #3 Meeting to help advance the plan toward future adoption 
December 18, 2019 Community Workshop Public kick-off event of the Kearns GP Update.  Overview of the 
upcoming process to update the GP and conducted a SWOT Analysis 
and APAE Exercise. 
January 6, 2020 Steering Committee Mtg. #4 Meeting to help advance the plan toward future adoption 
January 13, 2020 Planning Commission Staff update to the Planning Commission on the status of the GP and 
to answer questions 
January 13, 2020 Township Council Staff update to the Council on the status of the GP and to answer 
questions 
January 14, 2020 Kearns Community Center Introduce planning and the General Plan process to English as a 
Second Language students at Kearns High School 
January 23, 2020 6200 S. Beautification Project Staff attended in support and to engage with community 
January 27, 2020 Steering Committee Mtg. #5 Meeting to help advance the plan toward future adoption 
January 30, 2020 Transportation Planning 
Principles Workshop 
Workshop for metro-township decision-makers to teach 
transportation-related trends and innovations and produce a suite of 
key transportation principles 
March 2, 2020 Steering Committee Mtg. #6 Meeting to help advance the plan toward future adoption.  Guest 
speaker – Lupita McClenning, MSD Planning and Development 
Director 
March 9, 2020 Steering Committee Mtg. #7 Continuation from Committee Mtg. #6 
March 10, 2020 Township Council Staff update to the Council on the status of the GP and to answer 
questions 
March 16, 2020 Kearns Township-specific 
Transportation Open House 
 
   
   
Table 2.  Public outreach opportunities help form the foundation of the General Plan.  
 
Kearns Steering Committee 
 
The Steering Committee is comprised of members representing diverse interests from the community including 
residents, planning commissioners, community council representatives, and a Council member.  Goals of the 
Steering Committee include: 
 
Kearns General Plan Update   5 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
1. Help set the course for the update process; 
2. Strive for consensus among committee members on important issues; 
3. Contribute to enriching the plan and identifying the potential universe of alternatives; 
4. Ensure all public and community groups are informed and have ample opportunities to contribute to 
development of the plan, and that their collective voice on key issues has been represented; 
5. Help shape a draft vision statement for the plan; and 
6. Create a plan that clearly portrays the desires and aspirations of the community.  This portrayal 
identifies what the community wants or does not want in the years ahead and the types of development 
supported.  The development community will be able to easily determine major elements in the plan 
that Kearns will support and items they may strongly oppose.  This tenor in the plan will convey these 
desires to community leaders and decision-makers as well.  
 
 
 
 
 
Steering Committee Technical Committee 
Member Representing Member Representing 
Patrick Schaeffer Township Council & District 1 Madeline Francisco-Galang SL County Engineering 
Jerry Wellman Planning Commission & District 1 Crystal Hulbert SL County Engineering 
Kim Barbushev Citizen District 2 Blake H. Thomas SL County Regional Development 
Chris Collard Citizen District 3 Helen Peters SL County Regional Development 
Joy Nelson Planning Commission & District 3 TBD SL County Parks and Recreation 
Joe Hatch Planning Commission & District 4 Various Staff GSL MSD 
Roger Snow Community Council & District 4   
David Taylor Citizen District 4   
Nathan Bush Planning Commission & District 5*   
Laura Koester Planning Commission & District 5*   
    
    
Max Johnson Staff – Long Range Planner   
Wendy Gurr Staff – Planning Coordinator   
Alex Rudowski GIS Analyst/Planner   
    
 Table 3.  Steering and technical committee members.  * Pending appointment. 
 
 
 

Kearns General Plan Update   6 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
The General Plan 
 
 
 
The General Plan Update for Kearns is a living and dynamic 
blueprint for the Metro Township that will be crafted, reviewed, 
and revised by not only the leadership of Kearns and staff, but 
also by the citizens.  It is a policy guide for making decisions about 
Kearns’ future.  For example, understanding how the community 
wants to address and shape growth, recognizing the various 
character areas of the Metro Township, managing both housing 
and transportation in Kearns, are among the issue to focus on.  It 
also establishes policy for the continued success of Kearns. 
 
The General Plan is a resource to guide and help shape the 
physical development of Kearns and is used by both appointed 
and elected officials, planning staff, the community, and potential developers to understand both where and 
where not development is supported and encouraged, as well as areas where development is not encouraged.  
Typically, General Plans should be updated every five years or as conditions change to ensure a dynamic 
document.  The goals and policies within the General Plan are designed to maintain Kearns as a healthy, 
equitable, and resilient Metro Township as both internal and external factors evolve. 
 
This General Plan will be the first update since 2012 for Kearns, and the first General Plan since becoming a 
Metro Township in January of 2017.  Metro Township status was obtained after a three to four-year process to 
create a government for the Metro’s that was more supportive of the unincorporated communities within Salt 
Lake County.  Previously, decades of uncertainty and conflict caused by various annexation and incorporation 
issues were unsettling and out of the control of the unincorporated Townships.  Support measures developed 
through this process, known as the Community Preservation (SB 199) Initiative, that helped to resolve the 
previous issues included:  1) protection from annexations; 2) representative government that allowed for 
greater local control; 3) Metro Township-specific control over budgetary matters; 4) a higher quality service 
level, 5) the ability to enhance a Metro Township’s unique community character, and 6) contribute toward a 
regional voice throughout the Wasatch Front region. 
 
All cities and metro townships in the State of Utah are required to have a General Plan.  This requirement is 
established through the Land Use Development, and Management Act (LUDMA) Title 10, Chapter 9a of the 
Utah Code, which authorizes and governs land use and zoning regulations and establishes mandatory 
requirements that local governments must follow.  In meeting these standards, this plan update has enabled 
Kearns Metro Township as a local government, that is fully engaged in determining its future. 
 
An integral component of the General Plan is a Technical Assessment.  This assessment describes the current 
state of Kearns today, and how its future could be shaped.  The purpose of the assessment is to present a 
factual foundation upon which the rest of the General Plan is built.  Preparation of the assessment is largely a 
staff function of collecting and analyzing data and information and presenting the results in a concise, easily 
understood format for consideration by the public and decision makers involved as the General Plan is 
developed. 
 

Kearns General Plan Update   7 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
 
 
 
 
 
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats (SWOT) Analysis 
 
A Community Workshop served as the kick-off event of the General Plan Update process.  Approximately 
thirty-five members of the community participated in the workshop, which was help on Wednesday, December 
18, 2019, at the Kearns Element Center.  Since its completion in 2019, the Element Center, also known as the 
Kearns Athletic and Training Center (KTAC), serves as a major gathering space for the community where 
many community-related events occur.  This facility is located between the iconic Kearns Olympic Oval and the 
Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness Center in the heart of Kearns. 
 
The workshop consisted of a facilitated discussion of both a “Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and 
Threats (SWOT)” analysis and an “Achieve, Preserve, Avoid, and Eliminate (APAE)” exercise.  The SWOT 
analysis is a strategic planning technique that helped identify the needs and opportunities for Kearns, while the 
APAE exercise, an integral component to problem solving known as the Goals Grid, helped identify potential 
problems and contemplate possible solutions to design a future direction for the Metro Township.  What follows 
is a explanation of the results obtained from the Community Workshop as seen through the lens of the SWOT 
analysis and the APAE exercise.  The matrix below (Figure 1) helps to graphically show what the analysis is 
designed to achieve.  Following the matrix are the four categories that contain the thoughts or statement 
points, from the public as gathered during the public meeting.  The statements in ‘bold’ print indicate the items 
that received votes as the most important or critical for the plan to initially address.  The numbers in 
parentheses represent how many votes were cast for each item.  Each participant received three votes during 
each of the two exercises. 
 
 Helpful 
to achieving the objective 
Harmful 
to achieving the objective 
Internal origin 
(attributes of the organization)  
 
S 
 
 
 
W 
Strengths Weaknesses 

Kearns General Plan Update   8 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
External origin 
(attributes of the environment)  
 
O 
 
 
 
T 
Figure 1.  The SWOT Matrix. 
 
 
STRENGTHS 
Compassionate people (2) 
Kearns Improvement District (KID) (2) 
Oval recreation area (1) 
High rate of home ownership and longevity of residents (1) 
Kearns High School – Strong community presence (1) 
Population diversity (1) 
Quality power and water (1) 
Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness Center (KOPFC) & Olympic Oval (1) 
Community-wide activities (numerous and diverse) (1) 
Youth programs for: (1) 
• Oval, library, schools, KOPFC, and community council, 
• UPD Youth Citizens Academy 
Community leaders 
Residents are awesome, supportive, unified, and diverse 
Kearns Community Council and Kearns Township Council 
Stable and resilient businesses 
UPD & UFA 
UPD Citizens Academy 
Code Enforcement 
Libraries 
Kearns History 
Timely and effective snow removal 
Quality garbage pick-up/recycling 
Widening of 5400 South street 
New wall on 5600 West street 
Parks – quantity and quality 
Historical significance and strong identity of Camp Kearns 
New Christmas tree & “Christmas on 5400 South” vision 
School system in general, including charters 
Central location within the valley 
Good access to region-wide employment 
Robust transportation access 
Excellent relationships with UPD and UFA 
• Title 12, the new code enforcement ordinance, once adopted 
 
Opportunities Threats 
Kearns General Plan Update   9 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
 
 
 
 
 
WEAKNESSES 
Image/reputation of Kearns (2) 
Longer light needed at Cougar Lane and 5400 S (2) 
• North and south movement is problematic (timing issue) 
Community-wide communication (1) 
Crosswalk lights should be flashing ‘reds’ at: (1) 
• South Morning Breeze Dr. at 5400 S. 
Ability to keep cars off streets in wintertime (1) 
Broadband choices (1) 
USANA traffic (1) 
Run-down school buildings – Many schools are older (1) 
Gangs – Severe tagging issues (1) 
There is no warehouse district (1) 
No firework shows (1) 
Eyesore area in the vicinity of Big Lots 
• Corner of 5400 S. and 4015 W. 
• Both sides of 5400 S b/t 40th – 44th W. 
Lack of curb appeal for houses between: 
• Cougar Lane and 5600 W. on 5400 S. 
Property on corner of Cougar Lane and 5400 S. 
Difficult to turn onto 6200 S. and 5400 S. 
• High traffic and low shoulders 
Cougar Lane too narrow; needs to be widened near 5400 S. 
Not enough crosswalks in appropriate locations – near KID 
Traffic near Kearns High School; needs to be widened near 5400 S.  
Not enough garbage cans at public parks 
Lack of parks 
• Educational and PR moment 
• Identify and describe park amenities 
Narrow streets throughout the township 
• Exacerbated by on-street parking (all vehicle sizes) 
No parking enforcement 
Insufficient parking for rentals and multi-family dwellings 
East-west traffic – 4700 S., 5400 S., and 6200 S. 
Safety in general, including law enforcement and gang prevention  
Lack of neighborhood street lighting 
Potholes 
Slow internet 
Lack of commercial businesses throughout the township 
Slim choices for dining options 
No Costco/Sam’s clubs 
Lack of developable land 
No renewable energy opportunities 
 
Kearns General Plan Update   10 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
No community gardens  
Vulnerability to annexations 
Not enough “free dump” days 
Lack of communication about events, services, & environment 
Poor communication between township and school district 
• Lack of administrative support 
• Seek to improve communication with district 
• Need for transparency and to relay information timely 
• Try to prevent another Oquirrh Hills scenario 
Enforcement of zoning laws 
• Continue efforts to improve ordinances and enforcement  
High-density housing 
Lack of emergency planning 
Salt Lake County taxes too much 
Good residents leave the community when better employment is 
obtained 
Lack of diverse housing opportunities 
Insufficient parking throughout the Township 
Insufficient public transportation opportunities 
Lack of walking paths with connectivity 
Absentee landlords 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPPORTUNITIES 
Improve public transportation (TRAX, transit, bus) (4) 
Install more street lighting in neighborhoods (4) 
Create a Farmer’s Market (2) 
Create more community resources, such as Dumpster Days (2) 
• Create more recycling awareness opportunities 
• Focus on improving air quality 
• Increase clean energy opportunities 
Build an indoor soccer field (2) 
Improve Loadstone Park: (1) 
• Add more play equipment 
• Add a water park 
Provide more playground space closer to the oval/beehive area (1) 
• Beehive Elementary School is behind the Oval 
• Could benefit from PR 
Encourage growth of small businesses like Utopia (1) 
• Fiber connectivity business 
• More technology will attract more business 
Create more amenities in all public parks (e.g. walking paths, etc.) 
 
Kearns General Plan Update   11 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
Install more crosswalks near library (lighted and maintained) 
• Crosswalks or pedestrian bridges across 5400 S. 
Install an access to Kearns High School in addition to Cougar Lane 
Build a dog park 
Create more community event space: 
• For girl’s and boy’s clubs 
• Free access to spaces for community purposes 
Ask Granite School District to: 
• Improve the school curriculums 
• Increase access to school properties 
• Increase enrollment capacities 
Attract more businesses 
Could use more broadband jobs 
Create gated senior communities (55+) 
Create more senior housing opportunities: 
• both independent and assisted living 
Provide enhanced elderly services 
• e.g., assistance with yard maintenance, snow removal 
Maximize occasions to add single-family developments 
Camp Kearns could become a warehouse district 
• redevelopment potential including additional commercial  
“Pipe Yard” property (4700 S. and 5600 W.) is under-utilized 
• May require some code enforcement to improve aesthetics 
Create a tool and establish a process for acquiring surplus properties 
Maintain the “bedroom community” reputation of Kearns 
Take advantage of current, reasonable land values 
• Valley-wide growth makes Kearns more attractive 
 
 
 
 
 
THREATS 
Excessive street parking (5) 
• Disabled vehicles, trailers, and semi-trucks 
Potential annexations from WVC (1) 
Porch Pirates – Package theft (1) 
Air quality (1) 
Lack of lighting, or broken lights (1) 
Cougar Lane traffic 
Non-residential traffic through the Township 
Weight damage to streets due to high volume semi-truck traffic 
UDOT – Northwest Avenue 
USANA – Traffic and crowds 
• Residents cannot get home on USANA nights 
Lack of focus on traffic enforcement 
Lack of strong police presence regarding normal patrolling 
 
Kearns General Plan Update   12 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
Water quality 
Water service pricing 
Litter, specifically old tires 
Light pollution – Type of light or style can be improved 
Open area dumping 
Noise pollution 
Slow internet (infrastructure issues) 
Gangs 
Aircraft crash potential 
High density housing developments 
Single-family dwellings 
• Illegal occupancy of multiple families 
• Tear-down and rebuilds 
• Illegal duplex conversions; more code enforcement needed  
Poor street presence regarding homes/visual quality 
Older homes are more expensive to maintain 
• Need help maintaining while being financially responsible 
Residents being priced-out of their homes 
Youth out at night – no curfew 
Unlicensed door-to-door sales 
Online purchasing (e.g. Amazon) 
Radon Gas (PR opportunity) 
Remove gambling-related businesses 
• Better businesses desired 
Higher taxes 
Lack of infrastructure in Camp Kearns 
Illegal dumping occurs near Condies Foods 
Railroad operations 
• Potential hazardous materials 
• Crossings at major roadways 
• Horns, lights, and safety threats 
• Crossing arms 
 
 
 
 
Achieve, Preserve, Avoid, and Eliminate (APAE) Exercise 
 
In reviewing the purpose of the APAE exercise, the matrix in Figure 2 is designed to answer two main 
questions:  first, “Do we have it?” and second, “Do we want it?”  The interplay between these Yes or No 
questions help to define the four basic categories, Achieve, Preserve, Avoid, or Eliminate. 
 
  Do You Have It? 
  No Yes 
Kearns General Plan Update   13 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
Do You Want It? 
Yes 
 
 
A 
 
 
 
P 
No 
 
 
A 
 
 
 
E 
Figure 2.  Matrix for the APAE exercise. 
 
 
 
ACHIEVE 
Increase RDA areas and opportunities – Redevelopment (5) 
Historical museum (3) 
More citizen involvement (2) 
Racquetball courts (2) 
Educating children to become effective community stewards (2) 
Movie theatre/restaurant area, specialty shops, etc. (1) 
Public transportation/TRAX & Transit (1) 
Municipal broadband (1) 
Improve traffic control (1) 
Kearns welcome (gateway) signs or monuments (1) 
Expand Kearns – Reverse annexation (1) 
UTA fast track for 5400 South – Future vision for a BRT line 
Improved railroad bridge – Structurally and functionally 
Train horn too obtrusive – Find alternative mitigation 
• 6200 S. and Cougar Lane, 5600 W. and 4700 S. 
Walking paths and connectivity and more walkable-type communities  
Downtown districts – Also support high-density residential 
Uniformed business district 
Create a centralized, community-focused downtown area 
Gateway-like housing/business 
Devise a better funding model for business opportunities 
Support growth of family-oriented and small businesses 
Local farmer’s markets 
 
Achieve Preserve 
Avoid Eliminate 
Kearns General Plan Update   14 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
Lineal park farmer’s market 
Food trucks (maybe a corral) 
Community dance / Karaoke club 
Improve Legacy construction – Older buildings in RDA area 
• Both sides of 5400 S. between 4015 W. and 4400 W. 
Community center 
Community theatre 
Smarter community funding 
• More awareness of resources available to residents 
• More environmental awareness (recycling & air quality) 
Family-friendly hot spots 
More parades, summer parties, & holiday celebrations 
Create a better neighborhood watch program 
• Devise strategy to invigorate and improve this program 
• Possibly create a purpose for the ‘watch’ 
Build new Kearns High School 
• Improve education system 
Complete renovation of the Kearns MT website 
Historical marker for Camp Kearns 
Continue beautifying freeway walls 
Install Camp Kearns monument signage on freeway bridges, etc. 
Build a historical facility of Kearns in the Camp Kearns area 
• Turn the balance of Camp Kearns into an RDA 
Provide the ability and opportunity to own a home in Kearns 
Support additional Moderate-income Housing initiatives 
Incentivize developments that reduce traffic 
Build a new recreation center 
 
 
 
 
 
PRESERVE 
History – written and artifacts (2) 
Community events (2) 
Oval (1) 
Library (1) 
Businesses we currently have (1) 
Small-town feel (1) 
Bike lanes (1) 
Green space (1) 
Dumpster day (1) 
Kearns Oquirrh Park District (1) 
• KOPFC 
• Resident discount 
Identity (1) 
Kearns Veterans Memorial Plaza – Cannon area (1) 
Parks 
 
Kearns General Plan Update   15 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
Schools 
Youth programs 
Playground equipment 
KID 
Crosswalks 
Competitions at oval 
Long-term families 
Miss Kearns Pageant 
• Need a website to provide information 
• Possibly use a Constant Contact for this 
• Red alert or Blue alert could be another solution 
• Also, a PR opportunity 
Senior services 
Snowplow services 
Provide dumpster vouchers in single-family zones 
 
 
 
 
 
AVOID 
Any increase to USANA traffic and sound (2) 
Bad high-density housing (2) 
Avoid multiple families living in single-family homes (2) 
• Creates overcrowded residential streets 
• Creates a bad image for the township 
Adult-oriented businesses (1) 
Companies with poor, little, or no environmentally friendly 
policies (1) 
• Poor air quality, etc. 
Halfway houses (1) 
• Drugs, transient homeless shelters 
Living in trailers and motorhomes (1) 
• Existing properties where use is not zoned or permitted 
Try to avoid abandoned business buildings 
High property taxes 
Recycling fees 
Storm water fees 
High-rise condos 
Additional rental units 
Increases in traffic volume 
Speed bumps 
Density in general 
• High-density residential, except in downtown district areas 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kearns General Plan Update   16 
 
 Kearns Metro Township General Plan Update 2021 - 2026 DRAFT – 2-27-20 
 
ELIMINATE 
USANA traffic and noise (4) 
• High speed traffic 
• Reckless drivers in residential areas 
Excessive taxes and wasteful spending (4) 
Gangs (3) 
Farah Drive and Planada Way (5280 W.) (2) 
• Poor transportation design issue with a large hill 
• Delivery trucks frequently high center 
Litter, clutter, and collected junk (1) 
Speeding on Twilight Drive (1) 
Homelessness (1) 
Poor roads / potholes (1) 
Northwest Avenue railroad bridge 
5400 South at Railroad bridge 
Driver distractions 
Jay walkers 
Speeding on 5400 South street 
Parking vehicles on-street (e.g., RV’s, trailers, etc.) 
Strange addresses / numbers – e.g., Henley & Hoopes streets) 
Kids skipping school that indirectly affect business operations 
Low-flying choppers 
Trash containers blowing away 
Graffiti and bird droppings 
Weeds and Rocks 
• e.g., Goat heads, vegetation blocking sidewalks, etc. 
Unemployment 
Non-sensical jurisdictional boundaries 
• Consider reverse annexations (e.g. Sonic and Jiffy Lube)   
High-density housing 
• Absentee landlords 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Planning & Development Services  •  2001 South State Street, N3-600  •  Salt Lake City, Utah 84190 
https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/ 
 
 
Kate Davies 
Long Range Planner 
KaDavies@msd.utah.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lupita McClenning 
Director, Planning and Development 
lmcclenning@msd.utah.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transportation Planning Principles Workshop 
Thursday January 30, 2020 6:30-8:30pm 
2001 South State Street, South Building, S1-120 and South Atrium 
 
PARTICIPANTS   
32 members of Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) Planning Commissions, Councils, 
General Plan Steering Committees, and some members of the public who are residents of MSD areas.  
 
STAFF AND SPEAKERS  
MSD Staff: Lupita McClenning, Wendy Gurr, Mikala Jordan, Max Johnson, Daniel Quintanilla, Alex 
Rudowski, Travis Hair, Kate Davies 
   
Speakers: Ted Knowlton, Deputy Director, Wasatch Front Regional Council; Jon Larsen, Director, Division 
of Transportation Planning, Salt Lake City 
 
Other staff: Three Salt Lake County staff members also sat in on presentations and some of the 
discussions but did not participate in the activities.  
 
OBJECTIVES  
• To provide background information on transportation trends and innovations to key MSD 
decision makers;   
• To produce a suite of key transportation principles that can be used to guide transportation 
planning across MSD; and   
• To produce a suite of key transportation principles that can be used to link MSD to surrounding 
areas.    
 
BACKGROUND AND SCOPE  
At this workshop we started to develop a suite of transportation planning values and principles that can 
sit across the entire jurisdiction of the MSD, with the understanding that these may be prioritised and 
implemented differently in each Metro Township or Area based on future local open houses, surveys, and 
other types of engagement with the communities of these areas.  
 
Definitions:  
Values are beliefs about desirable states or modes of conduct that guide behaviour and prioritization. 
 
Principles clarify the overarching values that are to be used and evaluated for all decisions, thus forming 
the foundation for implementing strategies that require a unified management approach.  
 
These values and principles will ultimately be linked to outcomes and performance indicators (see 
example, Table 1). This process will help to ensure that planning decisions are made based on the values 
held by MSD communities. 
 
Page 2 of 8 
 
Planning & Development Services  •  2001 South State Street, N3-600  •  Salt Lake City, Utah 84190 
https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/ 
 
Table 1: Example of possible MSD-wide transportation values, principles, outcomes and indicators 
Value Principle  Outcome  Performance Indicator  
Good health  All individuals living within 
a community, regardless 
of age or ability, should 
be able to access key 
destinations without 
having to drive     
Increase walkability 
measures to key 
destinations in and near 
to MSD communities 
Percent of major corridors 
that are walkable  
 
EXPERT PRESENTATIONS  
Ted Knowlton, Deputy Director, Wasatch Front Regional Council  
Ted encouraged workshop participants to think big - What are your Townships’ overall issues and how 
does transportation help address them? 
He outlined some current trends in transportation planning, particularly the decline in investments in 
suburban living, and the rising interest and investment in features such as walkability and a short 
commute.  
He outlined how mapping out “Access to Opportunities” can help re-think transportation planning, linking 
it more specifically to housing and economic development plans: See for examples 
https://wfrc.org/wasatch-choice-map/#currentTabIndex=2&scale=144448&sideBarClosed=false&x=-
12463593&y=4961808  
Ted also outlined some of the specific features that residents are usually looking for in terms of walk- and 
bike-ability, emphasizing that small improvements can often make a big difference.  
Finally, Ted explained how these new ways of planning for and implementing transportation options are 
being supported across Utah, pointing in particular to UDOT’s new approach to programming 
investments, which aligns with a set of core values (see Figure 1).   
 
Figure 1: Core values outlined in the most recent draft UDOT transportation vision 
https://uvision.utah.gov/  

Page 3 of 8 
 
Planning & Development Services  •  2001 South State Street, N3-600  •  Salt Lake City, Utah 84190 
https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/ 
 
Jon Larsen, Director, Division of Transportation Planning, Salt Lake City 
Jon discussed some of the transportation innovations that could change the way that we move around 
future urban environments. He emphasized that change is the only certainty!  
In order to deal with change, he suggested relying on two key principles:  
1) Timeless investments are the stable foundation of the system.  
2) Flexibility provides opportunity for innovation and growth.  
He encouraged planning for “the original mode” (walking), which never goes out of style, pointing out 
that “People-First” streets age well. He encouraged everyone to consider how streets function (street 
typologies) to do much more than just move vehicles – they also move people, they can help make a 
place unique and vibrant, they can enhance the livability and sustainability of an area, and they can 
provide access to a variety of services and service providers. Transportation planning should develop 
thoughtful designs that balance those needs and match them to the surrounding context. 
He finished by describing some of the many street design options that are out there which could be 
embraced and reimagined for MSD communities (see for examples Street Design by Dover & 
Massengale).   
 
BREAKOUT SESSION 1: VALUES  
Participants counted off into five small groups and were assigned to a facilitator who would guide them 
through two short activities (Breakout Session 1: Values, and Breakout Session 2: Principles). Participants 
were given an initial list of potential transportation values to consider (Appendix A). These could be added 
to or otherwise adapted as needed with the breakout group. Participants were asked to consider which 
THREE values on the list were MOST important in terms of planning for future transportation across the 
MSD. After describing why these three values were most important to them and listening to others in 
their group, participants could change their votes to come up with a final group tally of their top 
transportation values.  
 
These top transportation values were collected from all five groups and combined into a total tally for the 
whole group. The top transportation values to emerge from this process (those that received eight or 
more votes across all groups) are shown in Figure 2.  
 
Page 4 of 8 
 
Planning & Development Services  •  2001 South State Street, N3-600  •  Salt Lake City, Utah 84190 
https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/ 
 
 
Figure 2: Top Transportation Values to Consider (received eight or more votes) 
 
BREAKOUT SESSION 2: PRINCIPLES  
Five of the top values that emerged from Breakout Session 1 were then given back to the groups (one 
value per group) to discuss some principles that might help to clarify the values and how transportation 
plans could be implemented in alignment with those values (Figure 3). Some ideas regarding principles 
that emerged from these discussions are outlined below:  
 
Group A: Clean air  
• Develop programs that support emissions reductions (e.g. increased transit and micro mobility 
options, consider a range of ways to reduce trips)    
• Provide resourcing for education and outreach (e.g. implement an effective campaign for 
carpooling and other clean air transportation options)    
• Develop an app for schools – support carpooling or walking as a group   
 
Group B: Safe, user friendly streets for all types of users  
• Encourage non-impacting modes of travel  
• Consider ages and stages of mode users (child-elderly)  
16
16
12
11
10
10
9
9
8
8
8
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18
Clean air
Safe, user friendly streets for all types of users
Aligning local and regional needs
Ongoing engagement of stakeholders in local decision
making
Commit to an outcomes-based approach to planning,
design, and engineering
Good health (of individuals and communities, mental and
physical)
Preservation of open space
Link economic development with transportation and
housing decisions
Quality transportation choices (e.g. moving people, not just
cars)
Access to economic and educational opportunities
Affordable living expenses (including transportation costs)
Top Transportation Values to Consider (received eight or more 
votes)
Number of votes out of 32
Page 5 of 8 
 
Planning & Development Services  •  2001 South State Street, N3-600  •  Salt Lake City, Utah 84190 
https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/ 
 
• All actions and projects are prioritized to improve safety and mode choice  
• Respect the beauty and sustainability of the environment  
• Wherever possible, physically separate different traffic streams  
• All users respect the roads and trails  
• Where possible, use natural means of traffic calming  
• Sidewalk inventory  
• How our streets could incorporate movement 
 
Group C: Aligning local and regional needs  
• Be aware of existing authority (e.g. UT is a property rights state)   
• Need to educate about issues that cross boundaries  
• Need to have a strong vision - what your community should be and the ability to protect this   
• Local economies need to be connected to this vision (what do you want and why)  
• Ordinances need to reflect values, but also be flexible/provide options  
• Connectivity of sidewalk infrastructure – improve economies of scale, connect to amenities 
• Evaluation and monitoring – crucial to include this from the beginning    
 
Group D: Ongoing engagement of stakeholders in local decision making  
• Outreach needed – use multiple ways to connect with a range of audiences, conduct a baseline 
survey, try to connect with people when they are out having fun 
• Recognize and appreciate diversity – plan for ESOL, different ways and venues to connect  
• Keep it positive (overall) so that people stay engaged  
• Outcomes focussed efforts needed so that people can see progress  
• Public spaces should be managed by the public – to build a sense of ownership and 
connectedness can have services days etc      
• Have mores MSD-wide events! The cooperative nature is awesome, helps to build a collective 
identity and sense of purpose  
 
Group E: Quality transportation choices 
• Multi-modal choices 
• Stronger and more robust Trax infrastructure 
• Incentives for clean transportation solutions  
o Electric, trails, walkable neighbourhoods  
• Safe user-friendly streets for all users – design is key  
• Choices should evoke a sense of place 
• Carefully consider how to design streets for traffic capacity e.g.   
o Widen streets and increase speeds 
o Control for street width and decrease speeds  
  
 
Page 6 of 8 
 
Planning & Development Services  •  2001 South State Street, N3-600  •  Salt Lake City, Utah 84190 
https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/ 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Discussing principles in breakout groups.  
NEXT STEPS  
Transportation planning open houses are being organized for your local communities so that we can 
clarify how these values and principles could be prioritized and implemented at the local level. We will 
also use these initial values and principles to guide future Steering Committee efforts as appropriate.   
SAVE THE DATE 
Copperton – March 4th, 6:30pm, Bingham Canyons Lion Club 8725 West Hillcrest Street 
Emigration – March 11th, 6:00pm, Emigration Canyon Fire Station 5025 Emigration Canyon Rd 
Kearns – March 16th, 6:00pm, Kearns Athletic Training and Event Center 5658 South Cougar Lane, Second 
Floor Meeting Room 
Magna – March 19th, 6:30pm, Magna Webster Center 8952 West Magna Main 
White City – March 24th, 6:00pm, Government Center (Tentative) 
Unincorporated Areas – To Be Determined  
Brighton – Welcome to the MSD! To Be Determined     
 
WORKSHOP EVALUATIONS   
Thank you to everyone who provided feedback on the workshop! Your input is extremely valuable to us 
and will be used to improve future workshops.  
 
  

Page 7 of 8 
 
Planning & Development Services  •  2001 South State Street, N3-600  •  Salt Lake City, Utah 84190 
https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/ 
 
RESOURCES  
The initial list of values and principles that were given to participants for discussion and scoring (Appendix 
A) were derived from the following sources:   
Draft UDOT Statewide Rural Long-Range Transportation Plan 2019-2050 
https://www.udot.utah.gov/main/uconowner.gf?n=10385322369402804      
UTA Mission and Vision https://www.rideuta.com/About-UTA/Mission-and-Vision  
WFRC Wasatch Choice 2050 https://wfrc.org/vision-plans/wasatch-choice-2050/    
LEED v4.1 Cities and Communities Existing Guide https://www.usgbc.org/articles/leed-link-leed-v41-
guides     
Jean Crowther, Alta Planning + Design, “Complete Streets 2.0: Responding to the Fast Pace of Change in 
Transportation” https://blog.altaplanning.com/complete-streets-2-0-responding-to-the-fast-pace-of-
change-in-transportation-7e080b82efce     
 
  
Page 8 of 8 
 
Planning & Development Services  •  2001 South State Street, N3-600  •  Salt Lake City, Utah 84190 
https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/ 
 
APPENDIX A  - Transportation Values to Consider  
Environmental   
Clean air  
Clean water 
Sustainability   
Preservation of open space 
Natural resource conservation/restoration 
Reduction of light pollution 
Resilience to climate change      
Responsible use of materials  
Good nutrient management practices   
Increase energy efficiency 
Mitigate emissions (e.g. GHG)   
Good health and clean air  
 
Social & Cultural  
Good health (of individuals and communities, mental and physical) 
Connected communities 
Safe, user friendly streets for all types of users 
Good access to key destinations/services 
Good access to open space and recreational opportunities 
Preserve/revive high priority sites (e.g. historic structures, focus on growth and redevelopment for infill)   
Quality transportation choices (e.g. moving people, not just cars) 
Manageable and reliable traffic conditions 
Point to point access for micro-mobility and shared vehicles 
Multimodal infrastructure (both the travel lanes and the on-street parking) 
Utilization of digital infrastructure   
Adaptive, flexible components 
Growth management (e.g. establish measures to control growth/sprawl)  
 
Economic  
Strong economy 
Access to economic and educational opportunities 
Affordable living expenses (including transportation costs) 
Support housing options 
Fiscally responsible communities and infrastructure 
Link economic development with transportation and housing decisions 
Low carbon economy 
 
Process  
Ongoing engagement of stakeholders in local decision making    
Commit to an outcomes-based approach to planning, design, and engineering 
Environmental justice 
Equitable, inclusive, and inviting process 
Aligning local and regional needs 
 
Planning & Development Services  •  2001 South State Street, N3-600  •  Salt Lake City, Utah 84190 
https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
TRANSPORTATION & 
LAND USE SURVEY 
REPORT 
DRAFT August 2020 
 
Planning & Development Services 
      
 

Page 1 of 59 
 
 
Authors 
Kate Davies  
Mikala Jordan  
Kayla Mauldin  
Alex Rudowski 
Lupita McClenning  
 
Acknowledgements  
We would like to thank the many people who contributed to this study; in particular, Wendy Gurr and 
Maridene Alexander, without whom this survey would not have been possible. We would also like to 
thank the Metro Township Council members, Planning Commissioners, and General Plan Steering 
Committee members who helped to spread the word about the survey throughout their communities. 
Finally, we are grateful to the respondents who took the time to complete this survey and provide 
valuable insights into the needs and concerns of their communities.   
  
Page 2 of 59 
 
 
Contents 
BACKGROUND AND SCOPE ........................................................................................................................... 5 
Study objectives ........................................................................................................................................ 5 
Respondents ............................................................................................................................................. 5 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS ACROSS ALL MSD STUDY AREAS ........................................................................... 6 
Where do you live? ................................................................................................................................... 6 
How often do you use the following modes of transportation? .............................................................. 6 
How often do you link more than one destination/mode when you travel (trip chaining)? ................... 6 
On a scale of very important, important, or not important; which of the following transportation 
problems are the most important to address? ......................................................................................... 6 
Which of the following changes would encourage you to use modes of transport other than single 
occupancy vehicles more often? .............................................................................................................. 7 
On a scale of very important, important, or not important; how important are the following items in 
terms of development in your area? ........................................................................................................ 8 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS BY MSD MEMBER COMMUNITY ........................................................................... 9 
BRIGHTON ................................................................................................................................................. 9 
Respondents ......................................................................................................................................... 9 
Transportation modes .......................................................................................................................... 9 
Transportation concerns ..................................................................................................................... 10 
Possible transportation adaptations ................................................................................................... 12 
Areas of importance............................................................................................................................ 12 
Growth and development concerns ................................................................................................... 14 
COPPERTON ............................................................................................................................................ 17 
Respondents ....................................................................................................................................... 17 
Transportation modes ........................................................................................................................ 17 
Transportation concerns ..................................................................................................................... 18 
Possible transportation adaptations ................................................................................................... 18 
Areas of importance............................................................................................................................ 19 
Growth and development concerns ................................................................................................... 20 
EMIGRATION CANYON ............................................................................................................................ 21 
Respondents ....................................................................................................................................... 21 
Transportation modes ........................................................................................................................ 21 
Page 3 of 59 
 
 
Transportation concerns ..................................................................................................................... 22 
Possible transportation adaptations ................................................................................................... 24 
Areas of importance............................................................................................................................ 24 
Growth and development concerns ................................................................................................... 25 
KEARNS.................................................................................................................................................... 28 
Respondents ....................................................................................................................................... 28 
Transportation modes ........................................................................................................................ 28 
Transportation concerns ..................................................................................................................... 29 
Possible transportation adaptations ................................................................................................... 30 
Areas of importance............................................................................................................................ 30 
Growth and development concerns ................................................................................................... 31 
MAGNA ................................................................................................................................................... 33 
Respondents ....................................................................................................................................... 33 
Transportation modes ........................................................................................................................ 33 
Transportation concerns ..................................................................................................................... 34 
Possible transportation adaptations ................................................................................................... 36 
Areas of importance............................................................................................................................ 37 
Growth and development concerns ................................................................................................... 39 
UNINCORPORATED SLCo ......................................................................................................................... 42 
Respondents ....................................................................................................................................... 42 
Transportation modes ........................................................................................................................ 42 
Transportation concerns ..................................................................................................................... 43 
Possible transportation adaptations ................................................................................................... 43 
Areas of importance............................................................................................................................ 44 
Growth and development concerns ................................................................................................... 45 
WHITE CITY .............................................................................................................................................. 46 
Respondents ....................................................................................................................................... 46 
Transportation modes ........................................................................................................................ 46 
Transportation concerns ..................................................................................................................... 47 
Possible transportation adaptations ................................................................................................... 48 
Areas of importance............................................................................................................................ 48 
Growth and development concerns ................................................................................................... 50 
Page 4 of 59 
 
 
OTHER ..................................................................................................................................................... 52 
Respondents ....................................................................................................................................... 52 
Transportation modes ........................................................................................................................ 52 
Transportation concerns ..................................................................................................................... 53 
Possible transportation adaptations ................................................................................................... 54 
Areas of importance............................................................................................................................ 54 
Growth and development concerns ................................................................................................... 55 
APPENDIX A ............................................................................................................................................. 57 
 
  
Page 5 of 59 
 
 
BACKGROUND AND SCOPE  
This report summarizes the results of an online Transportation and Land Use survey that was sent by 
email to local leaders across the MSD member communities (e.g. Councilors, Planning Commissioners, 
General Plan Steering Committees) and posted on social media accounts and associated websites in April 
and May 2020. Between 4/9/20 and 5/14/20, 464 responses to the survey were received. For a complete 
copy of the survey questions, see Appendix A. 
 
The survey was intended for community members living in the MSD service area (e.g. Brighton, 
Copperton, Emigration Canyon, Kearns, Magna, White City, or Unincorporated Salt Lake County). It was 
expected that the survey would take approximately five to ten minutes to complete. Respondents were 
informed that the information that they submitted would be used to guide the development of general 
plans for their area. They were also informed that their responses would be confidential and could not be 
linked back to them in any way. Once their responses were submitted, they could not be changed. 
Respondents were encouraged to answer the questions as honestly as possible.  
 
Study objectives  
• To gather information on current and future transportation and land use preferences that will be 
used to guide the development of general plans for communities that are members of the MSD 
service area.  
• To support fact-based decision making that will maximize the health, safety, and economic well-
being of all people living in an MSD service area community.  
Respondents   
• Overall, respondents were relatively evenly divided between male and female, with 48% male, 
49% female, and 3% who preferred not to say.  
 
• Respondents were also relatively well divided across age ranges:  
18-35: 10%  
35-49: 33% 
50-64: 33% 
65+: 19% 
Prefer not to say: 5%  
 
• All but four of the respondents said that they hold a valid driver’s license, and all but seven said 
that they own a personal vehicle.  
Page 6 of 59 
 
 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS ACROSS ALL MSD STUDY AREAS  
 
Where do you live?  
 
Figure 1: Responses to question 1: Where do you live?  
 
How often do you use the following modes of transportation?  
In response to question 2. How often do you use the following modes of transportation? 65% of all 
respondents said that they drive alone daily. A much smaller proportion of respondents, 17%, said that 
they use alternative modes of transportation such as carpool, bus, train or bike on a daily basis.  
 
How often do you link more than one destination/mode when you travel (trip chaining)? 
23% of respondents said that they link more than one destination and/or mode of transportation daily 
(trip chaining). 
 
On a scale of very important, important, or not important; which of the following 
transportation problems are the most important to address?  
The transportation concerns that were cited by respondents as “very important” are listed in Table 1.  
 
Table 1: Transportation concerns - very important  Count  Percentage 
Traffic congestion  298 64% 
Unsafe travel  260 56% 
Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure 236 51% 
Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g. sidewalks, bike lanes) 220 47% 
Inadequate public transportation  192 41% 
Inability to effectively trip chain (link more than one destination/mode of travel) 92 20% 
 

Page 7 of 59 
 
 
 
Which of the following changes would encourage you to use modes of transport other 
than single occupancy vehicles more often? (Check all that apply)  
 
Figure 2: Responses to question 7: Which of the following changes would encourage you to use modes of 
transport other than single occupancy vehicles more often? 
 
 
  

Page 8 of 59 
 
 
On a scale of very important, important, or not important; how important are the 
following items in terms of development in your area? 
Table 2 shows the “very important” responses to question 10: How important are the following items in 
terms of development in your area? 
Table 2: The following items are very important in terms of development in your area Count  Percentage 
Safe homes and neighborhoods 383 83% 
Parks and open spaces 327 70% 
Clean air  325 70% 
Digital infrastructure  296 64% 
Managing light/noise pollution 275 59% 
Sustainability and energy efficiency 245 53% 
Limiting growth and development 241 52% 
Walkability  205 44% 
Access to economic and educational opportunities 188 41% 
High standards for design and aesthetics 178 38% 
Linking economic development with transportation and housing decisions 174 38% 
Historical preservation 171 37% 
Parking availability 163 35% 
Affordability of housing 157 34% 
Availability of cultural activities 126 27% 
Business mix  92 20% 
 
  
Page 9 of 59 
 
 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS BY MSD MEMBER COMMUNITY 
 
BRIGHTON  
 
Respondents  
There were 94 respondents from Brighton who provided the following demographic information about 
themselves:   
 
Gender  Count  Percentage 
male  58 62 
female  34 36 
prefer_not_to_say 2 2 
no response 0 0 
Age  Count  Percentage  
65plus 26 28 
50to64 34 36 
35to49 28 30 
18to34 5 5 
prefer_not_to_say 1 1 
 
All but one of the respondents said that they hold a valid driver’s license, and all but one said that they 
own a personal vehicle.  
 
Transportation modes  
How often do you use 
the following modes of 
transportation?  
Drive 
Alone 
% 
Carpool 
% 
Rideshare 
% 
Bus  
% 
Rail 
% 
Bike %  Walk %  
daily  48  5 0 1 0 7 48  
weekly  46  32  6 9 0 15  13  
monthly  3 13  3 7 1 14  4 
every_few_months  3 17  12  9 9 11  3 
once_per_year  0 3 11  16  11  4 3 
never  0 30  68  59  80  48  29  
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 59 
 
 
 
 
Transportation concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included above:  
o This canyon needs an emergency egress! A dead-end canyon does not serve 2M visitors well. 
o I think a huge mistake was made not separating a bike lane up Big Cottonwood.  So 
dangerous and deaths have already occurred.  Plus a monorail could possibly join little and 
big again with the least amount of infrastructure change and above the dreaded Avy paths of 
both canyons but mostly Little.   
o Trains more so than buses.  
o noise 
o Congestion. Parking at ski resort going down the streets.  
o Because both LCC and BCC are deadend canyons with only one way to exitt, consideration of 
canyon interconnection needs to be studied 
o Need more rail systems and rails up canyon or more buses.  
o Inadequate parking. Limit number of cars! When parking areas are full, No more cars!! Use 
public transportation! Add year round public transportation. Buses with frequent stops 
throughout the canyon. Change the public’s way of thinking to make bus service an easier, 
stress free, enjoyable, less expensive, environmentally responsible mode of travel. 
o No Gondolas 
o Volume of traffic in bcc 
o Adaquate parking in the canyon 
o Need alternatives to roadway for LCC and BCC canyons 
o Suggest having toll charge for use of the canyon. on weekends and holidays 
99
94
90
86
81
66
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Traffic congestion
Inadequate public transportation
Unsafe travel
Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure
Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g.
sidewalks, bike lanes)
Inability to effectively trip chain (link more than one
destination/mode of travel)
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
How important are the following transportation concerns? 
Page 11 of 59 
 
 
o We aren’t the Alps. We need good solutions to work in this small range that gets cars off the 
road summer and winter.  
o Cars should never be permitted to park along 190 up in Big Cottonwood Canyon.   Too 
dangerous 
o Stop taking out traffic lanes that impact 1000's of users for bike lanes that impact 10's of 
users 
o Bicycles either need a lane or  to not be allowed in the canyon. Cycling laws would only help if 
they were ever enforced. Riding 2 or 3 wide in the road that has commercial vehicles, 
emergency vehicles and an exorbitant amount of tourism should not be allowed., and unless 
you can show me the number of written violations for this than it is being allowed. 
o Egress From the Canyon 
o Public transport brings crime. 
o Would love Big Cottonwood canyon to be open all year to Park City and Bike and  jogging 
paths on the highway MUST be  wider. 
o Going around a blind curve and coming upon bicyclists riding or 2 or more wide & almost 
hitting them.  
o Lack of emergency egress in Big Cottonwood Canyon  
o motorcycles joy-ride up and down big cottonwood canyon and are excessively loud.  To much 
traffic in BCC in summer  
o Need year-round options so fewer individual vehicles head up the canyon, and need safe 
facilities. 
o No summer public transportation in canyons. And public service messages not enforced like 
signs saying noisy motorcycles and cars will be ticketed but the don’t 
  
Page 12 of 59 
 
 
Possible transportation adaptations 
• Changes that would encourage you to use modes of transportation other than single occupancy 
vehicles more often: 
  
Areas of importance  
• Historic areas in your community that you think should be preserved:  
o No 
o Brighton Loop 
o The history of the canyons and mining should be preserved and used for preserving the 
environment and ecology over additional development for commercial recreation. 
o Mostly the trails and shoreline (not really a structure) 
o The natural landscape and forests within our canyons.  
o Brighton ski resort  
o Brighton has over 110 years of history with many historic structures throughout BCC. 
Consideration of relaxing certain building codes when these historic structures are renovated. 
46
40
34
33
29
26
23
21
17
16
12
10
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
more_frequent_rail_and_bus_service
park_and_ride_options
better_location_of_bus_and_rail_stops
express_bus_and_rail_service
continued_or_increased_poor_air_quality
increased_cost_of_parking_gasoline_or_other_single_ve…
increased_ease_of_trip_chaining
safer_sidewalks
improved_carpool_vanpool_shuttle_rideshare_options
improved_telecommuting_options
proximity_of_destinations_to_one_another
employer_incentives_program
Which of the following changes would encourage you to use 
modes of transportation other than single occupancy vehicles 
more often? (check all that apply)
Count
Page 13 of 59 
 
 
o Silverfork Lodge, Brighton store, Milli Chalet, Brighton Lodge, Wasatch Club, Brighton Church. 
There are very few public buildings in Brighton and These buildings all have historical 
significance for our community. 
o no 
o Granite , Canyon entrances No rail system up canyons 
o Mt. Olympus Trailhead...safe parking,hiking 
o Miners cabins and chapel should be preserved to remind visitors of the origins of the area. 
o The town of Brighton should not be turned into a big commercial place.  The Ski resorts are 
Oi but keep the historic Brighton with cabins and areas for people to enjoy. 
o Green space is good for all 
o No 
o The whole of Big Cottonwood Canyon, and Guardsman Pass, should be important to this 
generation and all generations to follow. 
o Town of Brighton 
o None 
o None in my immediate vicinity 
o Silver Fork, Mining community, Donut Falls 
o The current balance of business, multi use recreation, backcountry, and wilderness. This is 
what has historically made this place great, ruining it with unnecessary Infrastructure will ruin 
it.    
o If there was a dedicated neighborhood but up in Brighton, then wouldn't have to drive 1 mile 
everyday 
o no 
o None 
o Silverfork lodge, all forest land and water shed areas 
o No 
o Silver Lake ....great view - good learning area for  children...keep more fish in lake 
o Historical meaning 
o We have several historic structures in Brighton that would be great to preserve before they 
collapse. The Brighton Institute has offered tours of the existing strucures/sites and those 
that have been torn down.  
Page 14 of 59 
 
 
Growth and development concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included in the list above: 
o Traffic in BCC during the summer months is very high 
o Local businesses like a small grocery market that would save trips downtown would be 
helpful, but are hard to sustain with such a limited population. Services like Instacart still 
don't deliver to the canyon. Having a community center for the new town would be so 
helpful. 
o Salt Lake City Public Utilities should be required to provide potable water and restrooms 
connected to the sewer at all major trail heads.  
o I have been a cabin owner for almost 10 years and the traffic situation up Big Cottonwood is 
so much worse now.  It really seems so reactive now with very little planning.  It really is time 
for some broad strokes that only government can accomplish! 
o Please limit the number of cars allowed up the canyon during winter months based on 
parking stalls at the resorts and for other parking areas in canyon so that the canyon 
experience can be enjoyed by all minus the noise and pollution and traffic congestion that 
occurs on a daily basis in Big Cottonwood Canyon during winter months.  
98
97
95
94
91
90
89
88
84
83
79
74
73
63
63
59
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Safe homes and neighborhoods
Clean air
Managing light/noise pollution
Parks and open spaces
Digital infrastructure
Sustainability and energy efficiency
Limiting growth and development
Parking availability
High standards for design and aesthetics
Linking economic development with transportation and…
Walkability
Historical preservation
Access to economic and educational opportunities
Affordability of housing
Business mix
Availability of cultural activities
How important are the following items 
in terms of development in your area?
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
Page 15 of 59 
 
 
o We need a wider bicycle shoulder/lane for the increasing number of cyclist and Joggers. We  
Emergency egress is also an important.  We also need a year-round connections between 
Park City and Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons. 
o It is not all about money. It is about preserving our canyons 
o Access to reliable and frequent public transportation 
o enforce noise ordinance in canyons. Some motorcycles can be heard for miles and disturbs 
the peace. 
o Let the free-market drive, no more nanny-state infringments on private property rights 
o Transportation in the Cyns. should focus not only on getting to the ski resorts but also getting 
people to the trailheads, climbing, hiking, fishing destinations.  Also important is egress from 
Cyns. in emergency's 
o Preserving the natural land use, habitat and The water and air quality in the canyon  
o I do not want public transport because it brings crime. 
o We would like to have the canyon make a stand on dogs...allowed or not allowed and enforce 
it. 
• Is there something else you’d like to add?  
o Support programs for wildfire safety and public health.  Brighton is in a watershed area that 
requires and deserves well-maintained public restrooms and constant wildfire mitigation on 
public lands (USForest Service and Salt Lake Public Utility lands). 
o The incentive will never be there unless you can get something in plain sight that is moving at 
a good clip part the gridlock of the canyons.  A third lane for “electric” buses, electric cars and 
possibly property owners (have yellow bubble lights you could put on your car to signal to 
others that you qualify for the special lane).  I think a train would be great but can’t imagine 
widening the road enough.  That’s where the monorail comes in to build just a few pylons vs 
laying track would be much easier.  Not to mention building shred’s in little cottonwood.  I 
mean it is ridiculous. 
o I would like to see an aerial transportation system in the Cottonwood Canyons. 
o Please do something to make it safer and more environmentally friendly to use our canyons. I 
am very fortunate to live up Big Cottonwood Canyon and wake up to the beauty everyday. I 
would never like to eliminate people's access to nature, but we need to improve the way that 
people are accessing it. Summer bus operations during the summer to major trailheads, on 
and off days for road biking or build a bike path (please!), reduce congestion and parking 
required for Guardsmans by offer a shuttle service from the Brighton or Solitude parking lot.  
o Please charge all car to enter canyons to cut down on traffic and I cease funds to improve.  
o Install toll system at mouth of canyon and put funds generated from toll back into the canyon 
for restrooms, trail maintenance etc.  
o Let us use the roundabout at the Brighton store 
o No rails or Gondolas up canyons. 
o We need frequent year-round public transportation in Big Cottonwood Canyon(bus) 
o This survey is puzzling....I live in Holladay but have a cabin in Brighton.  Holladay is great but 
Brighton Transportation needs help in limiting the number of cars in the canyon and making 
it safer for bikers and hikers. 
Page 16 of 59 
 
 
o ENFORCE Noise Ordinance 
o Public transportation in the canyon needs to be free to all users. Park and  ride locations need 
to be expanded and there should be an ap that show number of available spaces at each 
location during ski season. Peak travel times need to be increased in frequency. I've heard 
that students at the U can not easily get to the slopes unless they have a car. 
o Consider a dedicated bus lane up and down the canyon.  If it can't be built then close the 
canyon to non-resident cars for 2 hours in the AM and 2 hours in the PM so the bus can you 
use the lane.  Bus service needs to be available in the summer 
o I am concerned if the canyon is made more available to everyone the places other than the  
roads and parking, Namely the back country will suffer because of too many visitors. Red 
Butte canyon is closed. Big Cottonwood is a water shed It needs protection not more use.  
o No parking along 190 up in Big Cottonwood Canyon!  White lines or not! 
o Bus service to all trail heads in big cottonwood canyon 
o Where is the cost analysis to these issues rather than all the opinion based surveys that the 
CWC focuses on.   
o One of the challenges to walking and biking in the city in the summer is the bloody heat.    
o Put a gondola up big cottonwood and charge a small fee....charge $50 per car to go up the 
canyon make it so it’s cheaper to ride the gondola. Put a parking garage where the gravel pit 
is....it would cost some coin but it would be the best long term transportation for the canyon 
o Dealing with how the bicyclists use this canyon!!! 
o A gondola linking the Canyons, would really solve a lot of problems. Imagine being able to 
board a tram on Wasach Dr, take it up to Brighton, then link over to Park City, or Alta from 
there. This would save the environment by substantially decreasing the number of cars.  
o Everyone who wants to come up the canyon should - we just need to provide options for 
those coming up and those who need to go downtown to do so in a more sustainable, yet 
time efficient way. If it's not convenient, people won't use it. 
o Bcc, Lcc  tolls to help limit traffic,  lower speed limit to decrease road noise throughout 
Brighton township.  maybe a third lane for bcc for emergency vehicles, buses, and residents. 
or maybe a second lane up in the mornings, switch to down in the afternoon .lane   
o Something needs to be done about the number of cars in Big Cottonwood canyon.. 
 
 
 
 
  
Page 17 of 59 
 
 
COPPERTON  
 
Respondents  
There were 21 respondents from Copperton who provided the following demographic information about 
themselves:   
 
Gender  Count  Percentage  
male  10 48 
female  11 52 
prefer_not_to_say 0 0 
no response 0 0 
Age  Count  Percentage  
65plus 1 5 
50to64 4 19 
35to49 13 62 
18to34 2 10 
prefer_not_to_say 1 5 
 
All of the respondents said that they hold a valid driver’s license, and that they own a personal vehicle.  
 
Transportation modes  
How often do you use 
the following modes of 
transportation?  
Drive 
Alone 
% 
Carpool 
% 
Rideshare 
% 
Bus 
% 
Rail 
% 
Bike %  Walk %  
daily  71 5 0 5 5 0 33 
weekly  24 19 5 0 0 0 10 
monthly  0 5 5 0 0 14 0 
every_few_months  5 14 14 5 33 10 14 
once_per_year  0 5 10 5 33 5 0 
never  0 52 67 86 29 71 43 
 
  
Page 18 of 59 
 
 
Transportation Concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included above:  
o People in Copperton have no good way of getting into town. I have to drive my son to the 
track station so he can take the train to a bus stop. There used to be a bus stop in town.  
 
Possible transportation adaptations 
• Changes that would encourage you to use modes of transportation other than single occupancy 
vehicles more often:  
90
90
81
81
67
57
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure
Traffic congestion
Unsafe travel
Inadequate public transportation
Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g.
sidewalks, bike lanes)
Inability to effectively trip chain (link more than one
destination/mode of travel)
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
How important are the following transportation concerns? 
Page 19 of 59 
 
 
 
Areas of importance  
• Historic areas in your community that you think should be preserved:  
o The whole old town  
o the old part of Copperton 
o Old town Copperton.  To save our heritage, unique architecture  
o No 
o All of Copperton! 
o Copperton park 
o No 
o No 
o The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints building and the Catholic Church there in 
coverage 
o Our community was established in 1926. The majority of the township is historic. 
Preservation is key. Forcing rules for preservation by limiting what a homeowner or 
landowner can do with their private property is not a useful way to enforce preservation. NO 
HOA type proposals, please! 
12
7
6
5
5
4
4
4
3
3
3
0
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
better_location_of_bus_and_rail_stops
increased_ease_of_trip_chaining
more_frequent_rail_and_bus_service
proximity_of_destinations_to_one_another
increased_cost_of_parking_gasoline_or_other_single_
vehicle_related_fees
improved_telecommuting_options
employer_incentives_program
park_and_ride_options
express_bus_and_rail_service
safer_sidewalks
continued_or_increased_poor_air_quality
improved_carpool_vanpool_shuttle_rideshare_options
Which of the following changes would encourage you to use 
modes of transportation other than single occupancy vehicles 
more often? (check all that apply)
Count
Page 20 of 59 
 
 
Growth and development concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included in the list above: 
o safe environment for families, kids 
o Family oriented  
o Decrease in apartments 
o Nothing would make me use public transportation   
• Is there something else you’d like to add?  
• Infrastructure before development  
 
  
100
100
100
95
95
95
90
90
90
86
86
81
76
76
76
57
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Safe homes and neighborhoods
Parks and open spaces
Access to economic and educational opportunities
Limiting growth and development
Managing light/noise pollution
Clean air
Linking economic development with transportation and…
Sustainability and energy efficiency
Historical preservation
Affordability of housing
High standards for design and aesthetics
Digital infrastructure
Availability of cultural activities
Parking availability
Walkability
Business mix
How important are the following items in terms of development 
in your area?
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
Page 21 of 59 
 
 
EMIGRATION CANYON  
 
Respondents  
There were 97 respondents from Emigration Canyon who provided the following demographic 
information about themselves:   
 
Gender  Count  Percentage  
male  53 55 
female  38 39 
prefer_not_to_say 4 4 
no response 2 2 
Age  Count  Percentage  
65plus 25 26 
50to64 37 38 
35to49 23 24 
18to34 5 5 
prefer_not_to_say 5 5 
 
All but two of the respondents said that they hold a valid driver’s license, and all but two said that they 
own a personal vehicle.  
 
Transportation modes  
How often do you use 
the following modes of 
transportation?  
Drive 
Alone 
% 
Carpool 
% 
Rideshare 
% 
Bus 
% 
Rail 
% 
Bike %  Walk %  
daily  69 4 0 1 0 12 49 
weekly  33 30 3 0 1 27 22 
monthly  1 7 7 0 2 9 2 
every_few_months  0 13 38 2 7 12 0 
once_per_year  0 2 11 4 12 2 1 
never  0 47 44 96 81 43 29 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Page 22 of 59 
 
 
Transportation concerns  
 
 
• Other concerns not included above:  
o Traffic congestion here refers to periodic (but regular) interference between vehicle and foot 
/ bicycle traffic on Emigration Canyon Road. 
o Noise 
o Need to find a way to widen the canyon road in narrow areas sufficently to provide standard 
width bike lanes. Also, need to find a way to prevent landslides onto roadway. 
o so many bikers on the main Emigration canyon road is so dangerous. there is not enough 
room; vehicles cross the middle line on blind corners; it is getting worse. 
o please mark the lanes better.  and fix potholes 
o bikers up emigration canyon pose a great safety risk, to themselves and to others in the 
canyon 
o BCC and LCC are a mess.  Please build a 3rd lane in each canyon and use it exclusively for 
buses and 3+ car carpools. 
o Road lane layout to achieve workable mode sharing. 
o Increased problems with bikers and traffic- Booth at bottom of canyon should be considered 
to generate funds for canyon maintenance, clean up, safety.., 
o Keeping the safety of people biking on Emigration Canyon Road and safe traveling speeds of 
cars. Wider shoulders would probably be best. 
o Lower Emigration Canyon speed limit is fine. Upper Canyon (between the East entrance to 
Emigration oaks and the Killyons turnoff) should have a 35 mph speed limit. 
o The upper east side of Salt Lake is a multi-use recreation hot spot. It is about time the 
city/county paid serious attention to adequate bike lanes and hiking trails. 
o canyon congestion during winter skiing 
o Joy riders violating noise ordinance and traffic regulations 
100
97
94
90
71
59
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure
Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g.
sidewalks, bike lanes)
Unsafe travel
Traffic congestion
Inadequate public transportation
Inability to effectively trip chain (link more than one
destination/mode of travel)
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
How important are the following transportation concerns? 
Page 23 of 59 
 
 
o Mostly, we need more EFFECTIVE bike lanes, perhaps actually a divider between traffic and 
bikes, like in Ketchum, ID. 
o Year-round safe on-road cycling infrastructure is my top priority 
o All are important but some of these are not relevant. We don't have public transportation 
here 
o Inadequte organized ridesharing options. 
o Bicycle traffic not following rules of road riding in packs vs. single file 
o Fast moving cars and heavy traffic can chase pedestrians and bicycles away.  We should have 
some areas that are people first, cars second or not at all. 
o POT HOLES!!! very dangerous to bikers, motorcycles and skate boarders 
o Emigration Canyon -- just isn't safe to ride a bicycle, etc. since as you go above the 
forestation, the road narrows and there are no bike lanes". In addition in the lower part 
where there are bike lanes bike riders ignore and travel in the car lane or on the fog line. 
There needs to be a separate bicycle lane up and down the canyon and bicyclists should only 
be allowed to travel those not car/truck/motorized lanes. Clear demarcation for recreation 
needs to be made." 
o Emigration canyon needs bike lanes and signage to alert cars to bikes and to ensure bikers 
stay in their lanes.  It is dangerous.   
o Emigration Canyon sorely needs an improved road with resurfacing and space for bicycles. 
o Need measures to improve bike/car sharing of road and signs that reflect actual speed of cars 
versus spped limit 
o There are several areas in the canyon where it is too narrow for cyclists to ride side by side 
and they should move down to single-file. Due to the narrow nature of the road, public 
transportation isn't an option as it would create more congestion and increase the possibility 
of accidents, etc. 
o Bicycling is very dangerous in Emigration canyon for drivers and cyclists. Inadequate  bike 
lanes That make it hazardous for drivers and cyclists. 
o Good, continuous sidewalks is important. 
o I live in Emigration where cyclists have become a hazard to themselves and others. We love 
having them in the canyon but some common sense signage and traffic enforcement would 
go a long way. Bike lanes would be idea, but just putting mechanisms in place to require 
single file riding would be sufficient. 
o Better bike lanes or force bikes to be in bike lane - too dangerous for bikes to be in the road 
with our windy roads. Public buses in the canyon to link to public transit system 
o Consider lowering the limit to 35 MPH as too many treat the road as a raceway and the bike 
traffic mixed with the cars will create a death in the next 12 months as there are hundred of 
cyclists per day and aggressive motorized racers.  A serious accident happened with a cyclist 
near Little Mountain in early May of 2020.  More is going to happen.  Need UPD to enforce 
noise ordinance, speed and UDOT to consider lower speed limits.  It's a neighborhood not a 
freeway. 
o Not sure how it ever happened but some one decided that single file regulations for bicycles 
were not needed in this narrow canyon.  It is absurd.  Vehicles are required to stay in their 
Page 24 of 59 
 
 
lane and when you come upon 3 or 4 cyclists riding side by side you are forced to come to a 
near stop and if you pass you are subject to finger gestures and verbal abuse. And just to 
clarify, these are 100% recreational cyclists who park their vehicle at the top or bottom of the 
canyon.  These are not people helping the environment by cycling to and from work or riding 
to the grocery store. 
o Poor urban planning and coordination 
Possible transportation adaptations 
• Changes that would encourage you to use modes of transportation other than single occupancy 
vehicles more often: 
  
Areas of importance  
• Historic areas in your community that you think should be preserved:  
o Historical markers, monuments and trails  
o The CCC era outhouses by the old Sun and Moon Cafe 
o Ruth's Diner  
43
32
30
23
20
17
15
14
14
13
12
7
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
continued_or_increased_poor_air_quality
improved_telecommuting_options
better_location_of_bus_and_rail_stops
park_and_ride_options
more_frequent_rail_and_bus_service
safer_sidewalks
increased_ease_of_trip_chaining
express_bus_and_rail_service
proximity_of_destinations_to_one_another
improved_carpool_vanpool_shuttle_rideshare_options
employer_incentives_program
increased_cost_of_parking_gasoline_or_other_single_ve…
Which of the following changes would encourage you to use 
modes of transportation other than single occupancy vehicles 
more often? (check all that apply)
Count
Page 25 of 59 
 
 
o Owl preserve  
o Green space/wilderness/open space 
 
Growth and development concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included in the list above:  
o Infrastructure development to accommodate growing recreational use of canyon open 
spaces by county (not township) residents and to cushion those impacts on the local 
community and its private property owners.  
o We need more/better trail infrastructure, more trailheads, and more sanctioned trails in 
Emigration Canyon.   
o We live in an outdoor community and enjoy access to the city amenities but are here mostly 
for the outdoors, clean views, wildlife, recreation.   
o Question 6 should have a none of the above option or improved bike lane option. 
o Need more trails in emigration 
o Safety along the main canyon road should be prioritized for multiple user types.  Open spaces 
aka trails need improved parking & signage 
o Noise desperately needs to be addressed.  Motorcycles speed by our home, many altered to 
be as loud as possible, often in packs. We've been told that this is in violation of the noise 
99
99
99
98
96
96
95
94
87
84
79
73
66
65
54
53
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Managing light/noise pollution
Safe homes and neighborhoods
Clean air
Parks and open spaces
Sustainability and energy efficiency
Digital infrastructure
High standards for design and aesthetics
Limiting growth and development
Walkability
Historical preservation
Access to economic and educational opportunities
Linking economic development with transportation and…
Parking availability
Availability of cultural activities
Affordability of housing
Business mix
How important are the following items in terms of development 
in your area?
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
Page 26 of 59 
 
 
ordinance" and is the equivalent of a DUI but despite the signs at both entrances to the 
canyon it is never enforced. With Covid it's worse--like packs of chain saws roaring by our 
home--even at night. I see police cars in the canyon but the motorcycles are free to roar as 
loud as they please." 
o Emigration Canyon is a unique, residential area. Salt Lake City is only a 15 minute drive, 
providing plenty of access to education and culture. Residents have chosen to live here 
because of the lack of development. It's simply not possible to have more commercial or 
residential properties here, there's not enough water let alone flat building ground. For the 
last two summers, Emigraton Creek has gone dry.  
o Noise pollution from illegally modified vehicles violating our existing laws is a major problem 
on warmer summer days along Emigration Canyon Rd. Motos with illegal exhausts are often 
over 100 BD only 25 feet from road while limit is 80 DB.  UPD needs a campaign on 
enforcement of the exisiting statute.   
o Limiting growth in Emigration Canyon 
 
• Is there something else you’d like to add?  
o Emigration Canyon is heavily used for recreation purposes by the entire Wasatch Front. 
Financial considerations should be made to provide funding for services to make the 
bike/jogging lane safe and water/toilet opportunities.  Safety on the main canyon road is of 
paramont importance.  There iare speeding, capacity and noise issues 
o It is hard to focus perspective in this survey as it encompasses very diverse situations, home, 
work, cultural, commercial activities so it was impossible to keep answers focused.   
o Preservation of clean air and increased travel in canton. Pollution 
o Survey not very relevant to retired people living in Emigration Canyon.  
o What kind of ridiculous jargon does "trip chaining" mean? You don't explain it in this survey 
so how do you expect to gather substantive feedback. 
o Put a toll for non-resident traffic! 25 cents per bike 50 cents per car. use the thousands of 
dollars a month to build a safe bike trail off of the road.  
o I wish there was a pickup option for package delivery near the mouth of the canyon, so that 
delivery traffic could be reduced. Also, I wish we could stop home garbage collection in 
Pinecrest (we have dumpsters at the bottom, which can substitute) to get the garbage trucks 
off this narrow road. I wish we could have more city streets closed off at times to be used for 
pedestrian access. Montreal, for instance, closes city streets at night and there is a vibrant 
outdoor eating scene, it's wonderful! On off hours such as weekends, could some streets be 
made walk/bike zones. 
o Public transportation Could work in Emigration Canyon if it were correctly timed and 
coordinated with working times at the U and/or U of U hospital. Probably just need a shuttle 
bus- and some early adapters. Emigration Canyon Road should be lined for 2-way bicycle use 
with vehicular traffic deferntial to bicyclists. This is done effectively in Europe, would slow 
traffic, and prioritize use of the road by those who keep the air clean.  
o Emphasize development of main canyon road as an historic byway that also provides 
exceptional and safe recreational use 
o Question 2 needs better choices. I trip-chain so I drive just once or twice a week to run my 
errands. The map questions are confusing but didn't seem relevant so I skipped them. 
Page 27 of 59 
 
 
o Emig. Canyon is a somewhat unique location. We mainly need a safer main road and better 
internet capability. 
o For public safety and aesthetic reasons, development in Emigration Canyon must cease, 
there's simply not enogh natural resources to support it. As Utah's climate becomes dryer, 
fire is an ever present threat and with only two ways out of the canyon, loss of life is an 
ineveitable outcome. Additional congestion must be discouraged for the safety of visitors and 
residents. 
o One of the pressing issues in the canon is the mix of cars, runner, drylands xc skier trainers , 
cyclists and motorcycle on a spring, summer or fall day. It is like an obstacle course- very very 
dangerous. The other is no public transportation at all. No way to get down the canyon to link 
in to bus or rail.  
o The law is here and should be enforced.  It is the number one quality of life hit in the canyon 
and violators are often aggressive street racers that put cyclists lives at risk.  Two birds, one 
stone.  Enforce noise ordinance UPD! 
o This is a residential area in a narrow canyon with limited resources.  Shortage of culinary 
water and danger of forest fires are the overriding concerns in this area.  By increasing public 
access these dangers are increased. A visiting hiker can start a fire and go home and watch 
the news coverage from the comfort of his home but we will be evacuated or possibly lose 
our home or our lives. Some ares are just not suitable for increased development or mass 
transit.   
 
 
 
  
Page 28 of 59 
 
 
KEARNS 
 
Respondents  
There were 54 respondents from Kearns who provided the following demographic information about 
themselves:   
 
Gender  Count  Percentage 
male  23 43 
female  30 56 
prefer_not_to_say 1 2 
no response 0 0 
Age  Count  Percentage  
65plus 8 15 
50to64 13 24 
35to49 24 44 
18to34 8 15 
prefer_not_to_say 1 2 
 
All respondents said that they hold a valid driver’s license, and all said that they own a personal vehicle.  
 
Transportation modes  
How often do you use 
the following modes of 
transportation?  
Drive 
Alone 
% 
Carpool 
% 
Rideshare 
% 
Bus 
% 
Rail 
% 
Bike %  Walk %  
daily  70 15 2 2 2 4 35 
weekly  26 17 0 4 2 7 22 
monthly  2 4 4 2 6 9 15 
every_few_months  0 7 11 7 26 9 13 
once_per_year  0 9 13 6 17 9 2 
never  2 48 70 80 48 61 13 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Page 29 of 59 
 
 
Transportation concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included above:  
o too hard to travel east to west 
o Sidewalk incentives are not enough. Kearns sidewalks are the worst in the state. Combined 
with not having well lit streets with multiple street lamps, I have almost no desire to enjoy 
transport other than my safe personally owned vehicle. 
o Cost of transportation 
o Would like to see a Trax line out to grab a amphitheater 
  
100
98
93
81
80
63
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Unsafe travel
Traffic congestion
Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure
Inadequate public transportation
Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g.
sidewalks, bike lanes)
Inability to effectively trip chain (link more than one
destination/mode of travel)
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
How important are the following transportation concerns? 
Page 30 of 59 
 
 
Possible transportation adaptations 
• Changes that would encourage you to use modes of transportation other than single occupancy 
vehicles more often:  
 
Areas of importance  
• Historic areas in your community that you think should be preserved:  
o The Kearns cannon. We need to preserve the history of our Township. 
o No 
o Any Camp Kearns buildings or artifacts 
o businesses in the area of Stan's Market 
o Airport 2 
o None that I can think of 
o Kearns Veteran Memorial Plaza / Utah Olympic Oval/ Camp Kearns 
o The kopfc park and high school, not historic but very important 
o I am new to the area and don't know any. 
o open areas west of salt lake city should be left open so wildlife can survive 
25
24
21
19
17
15
14
13
13
10
5
3
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
better_location_of_bus_and_rail_stops
safer_sidewalks
improved_telecommuting_options
more_frequent_rail_and_bus_service
proximity_of_destinations_to_one_another
park_and_ride_options
employer_incentives_program
express_bus_and_rail_service
continued_or_increased_poor_air_quality
increased_ease_of_trip_chaining
improved_carpool_vanpool_shuttle_rideshare_options
increased_cost_of_parking_gasoline_or_other_single_ve…
Which of the following changes would encourage you to use 
modes of transportation other than single occupancy vehicles 
more often? (check all that apply)
Count
Page 31 of 59 
 
 
o every historical area is important. 
o Area around Kearns High and the Olympic Oval. Closest thing Kearns has to a history.  
o Yes. All historical sites are important 
o the old Kearns railroad station (now a daycare) 
o Anything that might still be here from the army base in kearns 
 
Growth and development concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included in the list above:  
o make public transit a realistic alternative to car ownership please.  
 
• Is there something else you’d like to add?  
o Please do something with Kearns. We are to low income to be held to Salt Lake City's 
ordinances. Taylorsville has become a wonderful place, West valley has become wonderful, 
100
98
96
96
94
94
93
93
91
91
91
89
85
83
83
69
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Clean air
Safe homes and neighborhoods
Digital infrastructure
Parks and open spaces
Affordability of housing
Access to economic and educational opportunities
Linking economic development with transportation and…
Managing light/noise pollution
Sustainability and energy efficiency
Walkability
Business mix
Parking availability
Availability of cultural activities
High standards for design and aesthetics
Limiting growth and development
Historical preservation
How important are the following items in terms of 
development in your area? 
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
Page 32 of 59 
 
 
and Kearns has been left ignored and looked down upon by the rest of the state. Hire more 
law enforcement, incentivise local business with tax rebates or cuts on new local 
construction. Incentivise more city street and sidewalk infrastructure. Incentivise 
entertainment / travel industries to open here. Anything that shows we are more than a 
forgotten malignant cyst on the valley. 
o Thank you for allowing the residents an opportunity to provide input.  
 
 
Page 33 of 59 
 
 
MAGNA  
 
Respondents  
There were 122 respondents from Magna Metro Township who provided the following demographic 
characteristics about themselves:   
 
Gender  Count  Percentage 
male  34 28% 
female  84 69% 
prefer_not_to_say 4 3% 
no response 0 0% 
Age  Count  Percentage  
65plus 11 9% 
50to64 44 36% 
35to49 45 37% 
18to34 18 15% 
prefer_not_to_say 3 2% 
 
All but four of the respondents said that they hold a valid driver’s license, and all but six said that they 
own a personal vehicle.   
 
Transportation modes  
How often do you use 
the following modes of 
transportation?  
Drive 
Alone 
% 
Carpool 
% 
Rideshare 
% 
Bus 
% 
Rail 
% 
Bike %  Walk %  
daily  75% 7% 1% 6% 4% 2% 32% 
weekly  18% 15% 2% 2% 1% 8% 26% 
monthly  2% 3% 2% 2% 3% 4% 7% 
every_few_months  2% 10% 11% 7% 12% 5% 11% 
once_per_year  0% 5% 11% 8% 17% 6% 1% 
never  3% 60% 75% 75% 62% 75% 24% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 34 of 59 
 
 
Transportation concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included above:  
o From Magna there are no efficient transit solutions to downtown SLC where I work. I can 
drive in 30 min or less, but the bus/train trip takes 2 hours one way. Magna needs a 
commuter bus to downtown that uses SR 201.  
o Should address traffic and road infrastructure before allowing hundreds of houses to be built 
on these already over crowded roads 
o Poor quality of planning and road repairs. Quality should be utmost importance to relieve tax 
payers of unnecessary repairs . 
o lack of shelters at a lot of bus stops 
o Public transportation is way over priced and takes too long to make it affordable for a daily 
commute. 
o Keeping traffic flowing is huge for me. I commute from Magna to Lehi and there are several 
others I work with that have longer commutes. People blocking lanes make vast differences 
when comparing our early morning commute with our 5:00 p.m. commute 
o Would love an east west trax  line following 201 
o CONSTANT CONSTRUCTION  
o Stop piece mealing every development. Make a plan that developers have to follow and stick 
to it. Please. Having necessities within close proximity to communities decreases traffic. 
o We don't have room to add more roads and more homes are coming in. It is unsafe down 
8400 in Magna already and they are adding the Cyprus HS on there. People will lose property 
for the roads and that is not cool nor fair  
o The bus system changes their times sometimes. 
o 3500 s and 5600 needs. Median so that people aren't blocking traffic to get to McDonald's 
o Having at least one main road cleared of ice and snow during a bad storm would be ideal.  
o Wasting tax money on bus service! 
o Hours 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Traffic congestion
Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure
Unsafe travel
Inadequate public transportation
Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g.
sidewalks, bike lanes)
Inability to effectively trip chain (link more than one
destination/mode of travel)
How important are the following transportation concerns? 
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
Page 35 of 59 
 
 
o I want trax to go from magna to fast trax train 
o I don't ride the bus because it was takes too long.  The express bus makes too many stops.  It 
drives me nuts that it loops way out of it's way to go by the UTA headquarters. 
o Too many road construction going on at same time 
o Too much bus service with many buses very few riders. 
o The map is very hard to understand without roads listed. 5600 West is too busy between 
4100 s and 3100 s. Hopefully mountain view completion will help relieve traffic.  Many areas 
in Magna are not set up to walk safely. Dangerous crossing Bachus and 3500 south. Especially 
for the school children.    
o it takes way too freaking long  
o Keep trax open until after the bars and restaurants close 
o This is a cart before the horse survey and question.  If there were locations locally to take 
public transportation You may get answers that are worthwhile. But until the local 
community takes control and stops subsidizing others to our own detriment those 
improvements won’t be made.  
o Mass transit is too expensive to make it a viable option for me.  
o Wish there were more bus routes on 3100s in Magna 
o To many heavy trucks on 111 coming into/ out of  Magna 
o Time spent, not just congestion but a public transportation system that costs as much to 
drive an car and doesn't get you anywhere in a timely fashion.  
o The only realistic way for someone like me to get from place to place is in my own vehicle.  I 
can't walk very far or stand very long. 
o I would like to emphasize that active transportation is neglected in Magna township even 
though a high perfect of the population would greatly benefit from it v 
  
Page 36 of 59 
 
 
Possible transportation adaptations 
• Changes that would encourage you to use modes of transportation other than single occupancy 
vehicles more often:  
 
  
60
56
46
46
42
36
35
27
25
22
13
9
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
safer_sidewalks
better_location_of_bus_and_rail_stops
more_frequent_rail_and_bus_service
employer_incentives_program
express_bus_and_rail_service
improved_telecommuting_options
proximity_of_destinations_to_one_another
continued_or_increased_poor_air_quality
increased_ease_of_trip_chaining
park_and_ride_options
increased_cost_of_parking_gasoline_or_other_single_ve…
improved_carpool_vanpool_shuttle_rideshare_options
Which of the following changes would encourage you to use 
modes of transportation other than single occupancy vehicles 
more often? (check all that apply)
Count
Page 37 of 59 
 
 
Areas of importance  
• Historic areas in your community that you think should be preserved:  
o Magna Main Street Commercial District 
o Main Street and the high school 
o Magna Main street, should incentivize property owners to renovate buildings to be used 
again 
o All have been torn down against wishes of residents. 
o magna main st 
o Magna Main sreet 
o Magna Main Street  
o All of Magna Main Street should be preserved and taken care of. There are too many vacant, 
crumbling buildings that are not being taken care of. 
o Downtown historic magna 
o Empress theater 
o Main Street, High School 
o Magna main st 
o Magna Main downtown 
o Most business on Main Street  
o Empress Theatre because it's a very friendly environment and a great place to be 
o Magna Main Street.  
o Magna Main street has good food options and a good small community theater. 
o It is history that will be lost if torn down. 
o Downtown area and Magna downtown.  History.  
o No I used to love the horse pastures but, I got used to change. 
o All Main Street  
o Magna main street 
o We need farmland. Too many apartments cause congestion that is unwanted. Older buildings 
may need upgrades but are apart of meaningful history 
o Magna main. I would love to see the buildings repaired and occupied  
o Pleasant Green Cemetery is a cool old small town cemetery and needs to be saved and 
improved. 
o Yes. All the buildings on Magna Main street 
o Magna Main  
o All of them  
o Temples, museums 
o Yes magna main street dor it history 
o Main Street, the cemetery, Cyprus High 
o Magna Main Street 
o Magna main Street 
o born and raised in magna, its my home 
o Magna main st 
o Empress theatre, magna history and community  
Page 38 of 59 
 
 
o Downtown Magma. 
o Magna main.   
o Magna Main Street - Cyprus HS 
o Main Street 
o Our main street was a viable space, that needs to return, with the existing buildings we have. 
The historic value is irreplaceable.   
o Magna Main Street 
o Magna Main St.  
o Magna main should be restored and preserved. There is so much history and it is the soul of 
magna. 
o Magna main street. The character on Magna main is beautiful. A lot of magna residents want 
it kept up on / more motivation for businesses to grow there.  
o Magna main street 
o Magna main street 
o Downtown Magna, needs some revitalization other than bars, and churches. Movie theaters, 
restraunts , bowling, shops, and stores.  
o Magna Main St. It has historical buildings that should be preserved. 
o Main Street magna. It's historical 
o Down town Magna. It is part of our history 
o Historical Magna Main 
o downtown magna 
o Magna downtown  
o Magna main  
o I would love to have our historic area preserved. But what do we do in the area that has 
value? 
o Main Street in Magna. It's one of the last remaining main streets in the Salt Lake Valley. 
o My house is over 120 years old and sturdy as day 1 
o Magna Main Street is a historic part of town 
o Magna Main Street, empress theater, colossimo’s, Cyprus high school 
o Magna Main Street has transformed in recent years, growing in in Magna in the 90s the main 
street was in bad shape a lot of people donated many hours to bring more interest back to it. 
Transportation is decent but it needs pedestrian access from the neighborhoods which have 
no modern or safe sidewalsidewalks 
o Magna Main Street because it is, and should be a center of Magna's roots, has a unique 
character, and preserves interest in our community. 
o Daughters of Utah pioneer monument on 4100 S 8400 W it’s important to me because my 
great grandparents helped settle Magna.  Also like the war veterans memorial. 
o The entire downtown needs to be preserved and protected, especially from newer 
development that does not fit. Has the form based code not been implemented? 
Page 39 of 59 
 
 
Growth and development concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included in the list above:  
o Ball parks for Magna which were taken away years ago forcing young players to travel outside 
their community. 
o The Magna area is often overlooked for any kind of improvement. There is almost no 
communication regarding public meetings and events. If someone doesn’t tell me about 
things, I don’t hear about them. I don’t like using social media yet that seems to be the only 
way things are announced. 
o Keep Magna Safe and take Pride in our little Town 
o Turn arrows are desperately needed at all intersections in Magna!!  
o Put tax money into street lighting and sidewalks instead of too much bus service! 
o Magna has too much affordable housing, we don't need more of that.  We need housing 
where people can grow families and stay in Magna to be contributing members.  We dont 
need any more apartment complexes,  we don't have school space, roadways, or businesses 
100
100
98
97
96
95
94
94
91
90
90
89
89
87
87
87
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Safe homes and neighborhoods
Parks and open spaces
Clean air
Digital infrastructure
Access to economic and educational opportunities
Managing light/noise pollution
Linking economic development with transportation and…
Sustainability and energy efficiency
Historical preservation
Walkability
Business mix
Affordability of housing
Availability of cultural activities
High standards for design and aesthetics
Limiting growth and development
Parking availability
How important are the following items in terms of 
development in your area? 
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
Page 40 of 59 
 
 
to support this.   The county needs to view Magna as the treasure ut is and stop dumping 
poor development here. We need Kennecott to step up and support arts, cultural, and other 
activities as they have done in other parts of the valley.  
o When bringing up affordable housing and economic development. It doesn’t mean the same 
thing in magna that it means to the subsidized East side communities. In magna it means how 
many people that can’t afford to live in our community are you going to artificially place here.  
We need to stop add8ng low income people and help the ones we have become better 
educated. We need to add housing that is not considered affordable. 
o Safe and green building standards for longevity of the structure. We need to start building for 
the future most homes here are big and empty of long term value.  
o Would love to see more “next step up from a starter home” developments, lots of Cyprus 
grads return to Magna and want to raise their families here, problem we have and see often 
is once the starter home gets too small there are very few options to “move up” and stay in 
Magna. 
o Lots more bike trails 
o In general Magna needs an infrastructure renaissance, what we have is not being maintained 
at a sustainable level. New infrastructure is not focused on active transportation. Why have 
the new frontage roads not been constructed to provide safe travel opportunities for 
pedestrians and people on bikes? 
• Is there something else you’d like to add?  
o I feel the best way to improve transportation in Magna is to have express commuter 
buses or other flexible and time efficient transit. Improved sidewalks and bike lanes 
that can't be used for parking would also help with local non-car trips. 
o Current parks and recreation need better leadership who will not steal from the 
public. 
o Feeling like every piece of land is being bought up and more housing squeezed in! 
o Use your planners. Give them more authority than developers over changes. Require 
money for infrastructure from developers. This works in other states. 
o Why is this survey not being mailed out to residents?  
o Stop building apartments and packing people in.  
o 3100 S in the AM is a joke when Cyprus is in session! Make the light running a 
East/West longer!! 
o MSD seems to forget about Magna. I see it as an inefficient system due to poorly 
functioning elected representatives  
o Sidewalks and street lighting is poor in older Magna! A bus every 15 minutes is a 
waste of Tax money. 
o Let's do right and bring in decent businesses so our community can be more 
walkable,  truly make Magna's main street a thriving business district, remove the 
bars, surround main street with housing that can support a business district like we 
used to have. 
Page 41 of 59 
 
 
o I have loved living on the west side of the valley despite the reputation it gets. This 
area will be growing quickly. I understand apartments and affordable housing is 
necessary. However, I would like to also see more areas/neighborhoods for growing 
families like mine with higher incomes to be able to grow into. Encourage higher 
income families to move / stay in the area and not leave because there are 5 million 
new apartments in the neighborhood without the traffic and infrastructure to 
support them.   
o nope 
o Limit high density housing. We have too much, we don’t need more. 
o No more housing. Need entertainment venues to keep kids engaged and off the 
streets 
o Mass transit options in Salt Lake are expensive and don't get you where you need to 
go and they take too long to get there. 
o We need crossing lights on 3500s in Magna people don't stop when you are crossing 
o I know a lot of people hate dense housing and mix use but when it is placed properly 
and when transportation issues are handled before the build it helps ease the publics 
conserns. We need to build up and dense near transportation hubs, preserve open 
spaces and better regulate developers a d development.  
o Lots of attention is given to those who are physically fit and can ride bikes or walk 
distances.  Attention is also given to those who are wheelchair bound.  However, little 
or no attention is given to those who are in the middle, like me, who can't walk or 
bike any distance at all.  We need good roads for our personal vehicles, lots of easy 
access parking, and at museums, aquariums, and streets near major venues, we need 
places to sit that are not too low so they are easy to get up from. 
o I think my comment above got cut off, the short of it is buses are a joke. My husbands 
commute to downtown are drive alone in 20 mins, bike in 90, or take bus in 2 HOURS 
if the transfers all play nice. If you want most Magnaites to use public transportation 
make it timely and efficient or add another lane down 201 to make it quicker :) or 
bring back the commuter bus! 
o Magna would like to be the first in implementing innovation and being a well 
maintained place with a high quality of life. As it is we are often time the last ones or 
replacement of infrastructure lags decades behind level on the eastern side of the 
valley 
  
Page 42 of 59 
 
 
UNINCORPORATED SLCo 
Respondents  
There were only 6 respondents from Unincorporated Salt Lake County, but the data that they provided 
has been included for completeness. Respondents provided the following demographic characteristics 
about themselves:   
 
Gender  Count  Percentage 
male  2 33% 
female  4 67% 
prefer_not_to_say 0 0% 
no response 0 0% 
Age  Count  Percentage  
65plus 0 0% 
50to64 3 50% 
35to49 1 17% 
18to34 2 33% 
prefer_not_to_say 0 0% 
 
All of the respondents said that they hold a valid driver’s license and that they own a personal vehicle.  
 
Transportation modes  
How often do you use 
the following modes of 
transportation?  
Drive 
Alone 
% 
Carpool 
% 
Rideshare 
% 
Bus 
% 
Rail 
% 
Bike %  Walk %  
daily  67 0 0 0 0 17 33 
weekly  17 33 0 0 0 0 17 
monthly  17 17 0 0 0 0 33 
every_few_months  0 17 0 0 0 33 0 
once_per_year  0 0 33 0 33 0 0 
never  0 33 67 100 67 50 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 43 of 59 
 
 
Transportation concerns  
 
• No other concerns were listed.   
Possible transportation adaptations 
• Changes that would encourage you to use modes of transportation other than single occupancy 
vehicles more often: 
100
100
100
83
83
50
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure
Traffic congestion
Unsafe travel
Inadequate public transportation
Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g.
sidewalks, bike lanes)
Inability to effectively trip chain (link more than one
destination/mode of travel)
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
How important are the following transportation concerns? 
Page 44 of 59 
 
 
  
Areas of importance  
• Historic areas in your community that you think should be preserved:  
o Paulsen House near Dimple dell Park.  Pioneer history.  Could be nature Center. 
o Old White Church (3100 E. 9800 S) 
  
4
3
2
2
2
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0 1 2 3 4 5
proximity_of_destinations_to_one_another
better_location_of_bus_and_rail_stops
safer_sidewalks
increased_ease_of_trip_chaining
continued_or_increased_poor_air_quality
express_bus_and_rail_service
improved_telecommuting_options
more_frequent_rail_and_bus_service
employer_incentives_program
park_and_ride_options
increased_cost_of_parking_gasoline_or_other_singl…
improved_carpool_vanpool_shuttle_rideshare_opti…
Which of the following changes would encourage you to use 
modes of transportation other than single occupancy vehicles 
more often? (check all that apply)
Count
Page 45 of 59 
 
 
Growth and development concerns  
 
• No other concerns were listed.  
• Nothing else was added.  
 
  
98
97
95
94
91
90
89
88
84
83
79
74
73
63
63
59
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Safe homes and neighborhoods
Clean air
Managing light/noise pollution
Parks and open spaces
Digital infrastructure
Sustainability and energy efficiency
Limiting growth and development
Parking availability
High standards for design and aesthetics
Linking economic development with transportation and…
Walkability
Historical preservation
Access to economic and educational opportunities
Affordability of housing
Business mix
Availability of cultural activities
How important are the following items 
in terms of development in your area?
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
Page 46 of 59 
 
 
WHITE CITY  
 
Respondents  
There were 38 respondents from White City who provided the following demographic information about 
themselves:   
 
Gender  Count  Percentage  
male  19 50 
female  16 42 
prefer_not_to_say 3 8 
no response 0 0 
Age  Count  Percentage  
65plus 9 24 
50to64 6 16 
35to49 11 29 
18to34 4 11 
prefer_not_to_say 8 21 
 
All of the respondents said that they hold a valid driver’s license, and all said that they own a personal 
vehicle.  
 
Transportation modes  
How often do you use 
the following modes of 
transportation?  
Drive 
Alone 
% 
Carpool 
% 
Rideshare 
% 
Bus 
% 
Rail 
% 
Bike %  Walk %  
daily  61 8 0 0 3 0 34 
weekly  37 29 3 3 3 5 42 
monthly  0 11 5 0 3 5 0 
every_few_months  0 5 11 3 21 21 11 
once_per_year  3 8 13 16 45 5 0 
never  0 39 68 79 26 63 13 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Page 47 of 59 
 
 
Transportation concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included above:  
o Public transit should be a service, not a for profit business. I think that many of our mass 
transit transportation options are severely hindered because of a desire for profitability over 
usability. Compounded by that are frequently changing schedules because of profitability" 
that result in a distrust in the system for routine travel. " 
o Increase covered bicycle parking at trax stations 
o UTA BUS IS TERRIBLE-NO GOOD FOR TRAVEL CAN'T GET THERE FROM HERE 
o why can't we fix or create a route or highway without having to fix or redo it within 5 years? 
o Travel in the salt lake valley is impossible to travel from east to west and back on public 
transportation. Travel between Sandy and South Jordan should be easy, but no bus line exists 
to go east-west.   
o Too few Front Runner Times. 1/2 hour between pickups makes Front Runner useless in the 
AM and PM drive times. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
95
95
87
68
63
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure
Traffic congestion
Unsafe travel
Inadequate public transportation
Inability to effectively trip chain (link more than one
destination/mode of travel)
Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g.
sidewalks, bike lanes)
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
How important are the following transportation concerns? 
Page 48 of 59 
 
 
Possible transportation adaptations 
• Changes that would encourage you to use modes of transportation other than single occupancy 
vehicles more often:  
 
Areas of importance  
• Historic areas in your community that you think should be preserved:  
o White City has no historically significant areas. Culturally the White Towers Pool has some 
significance.  
o My naborhood. 
o White City Neighborhoods are unique and historical.  They should be preserved 
o Open space in Dry Creek/ Dimple Dell 
o Leave existing single family dwellings alone. All high density housing is just going to cause 
greater street, school, shopping congestion.  We have enough in our already land-locked built 
up areas. 
o This is History Sandy which I think should be preserved 
16
16
11
11
10
9
8
6
6
3
3
2
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
better_location_of_bus_and_rail_stops
safer_sidewalks
more_frequent_rail_and_bus_service
improved_telecommuting_options
employer_incentives_program
continued_or_increased_poor_air_quality
increased_ease_of_trip_chaining
express_bus_and_rail_service
proximity_of_destinations_to_one_another
park_and_ride_options
increased_cost_of_parking_gasoline_or_other_single_vehicle
_related_fees
improved_carpool_vanpool_shuttle_rideshare_options
Which of the following changes would encourage you to use modes of 
transportation other than single occupancy vehicles more often? (check 
all that apply)
Count
Page 49 of 59 
 
 
o Schools are often the learning center of the community. While our children attended school 
in my area and has had a strong impact in my home, I never thought that it was a place of 
such significance its edifice should be preserved.  It was recently razed to  provide space for a 
new school. It is a beautiful building and will provide several generations of community 
service.  And when it is time it needs to be replaced I hope they replace it.  We do not have 
any historic buildings.  
o Dimple Dell. It is an outdoor community resource that defines our neighborhood.  We are just 
another suburb without it. 
o PRESERVE EXISTING HOMES-THEY DON'T MAKE AFFORDABLE HOUSING LIKE THIS ANYMORE 
o I'm not aware of any 
o Our community is small, but White Towers Swimming Pool has been an important community 
gathering space since the subdivision was built. Dimple Dell gully is also an important area in 
the community. 
o No historic areas. 
o in white city, south of 10600 S. we have an area zoned as A2, this is important to preserve, 
there is a cluster of horse properties and we just don't see that anymore. many white city 
residents get to enjoy these spaces and remember Utah's' history, right here in Salt Lake 
County. 
Page 50 of 59 
 
 
Growth and development concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included in the list above:  
o On the subject of light pollution, controlling the brightness of signs like schools and local 
business are putting up would be fantastic. The excessively bright signs are really frustrating 
and an eyesore.  
o Na. 
o Leave White City as it is.   
o White City was established as a residential community, where businesses within the 
community, or even a tax base was not considered.  There were businesses within the area to 
meet their needs.  Most came here for affordable housing.  However, change or progress 
may be acceptable as the community at large sees the necessity. Many do not want an HOA 
but the freedom to live as they choose with no regard of their neighbors. I believe in the 
concept of raising the median level of affordable housing, enforcing a level of property 
management. I strongly disagree with replacing homes with businesses. 
100
97
95
92
87
84
84
82
79
79
76
71
68
66
63
55
0 20 40 60 80 100
Safe homes and neighborhoods
Parks and open spaces
Managing light/noise pollution
Digital infrastructure
Clean air
Walkability
Access to economic and educational opportunities
Parking availability
Limiting growth and development
Sustainability and energy efficiency
Historical preservation
Affordability of housing
Linking economic development with transportation…
Availability of cultural activities
High standards for design and aesthetics
Business mix
Percentage of respondents who answered "Very Important" or "Important"
How important are the following items in terms of development 
in your area?​
Page 51 of 59 
 
 
o LEAVE WHITE CITY ALONE, DON'T MESS WITH IT, PEOPLE LIVE HERE BECAUSE THEY LIKE 
HOW IT IS 
o Make it easy to get to a business.  These divider medians that limit your opportunity to access 
a business is an idiot idea, like 1300 e  and 10600 s 
o limited government and its involvement in my life.   
o Enforcing building standards and bringing neighborhoods up to new standards is important. 
Our community looks very run down, infrastructure and homes. 
o Keep White City an intimate little city, with smaller homes, bigger lot sizes. let's not over 
develop it bringing in more and more people for the sake of growth, let's preserve what we 
have, and just improve on it. not growth for the sake of growth. Quality over Quantity. 
 
• Is there something else you’d like to add?  
o I have observed while there is a dialog on the surface, I feel there are some of our leaders, 
who have their own personal agenda that take precedence over the desires or needs of the 
majority.  I want to believe they have the best interest of WC at heart.  My greatest concern 
is  we may destroy why we came here in the first place. 
o There is no need to add commercial pieces to our suburb.  There are plenty of commercial 
destinations around White city.  Apartments and townhome should be forbidden. 
o Don't build stupid intersections!!!!  Like 12300 s and the frontage road in Draper, that has to 
be one of the dumbest ideas brought to Utah. 
o The board of UTA needs to stop pouring money into light rail and forcing all bus lines to feed 
the light rail, while ignoring needs in the southern end of the valley. Look into making east 
west bus lines that go further than the closest Trax stop. 
o preserve my constitutional rights.   
o Consider changing church property zoning into school zoning and have a charter school come 
into the area. Or change rundown commercial property into multi-family housing and parks, 
or community centers. 
o Remove speed bumps in White City 
  
Page 52 of 59 
 
 
OTHER  
 
Respondents  
There were 32 respondents from other areas (not part of an MSD member community) who provided 
with the following demographic characteristics about themselves:   
 
Gender  Count  Percentage 
male  23 72 
female  8 25 
prefer_not_to_say 1 3 
no response 0 0 
Age  Count  Percentage  
65plus 9 28 
50to64 13 41 
35to49 6 19 
18to34 2 6 
prefer_not_to_say 2 6 
 
All but one of the respondents said that they hold a valid driver’s license, and all but one said that they 
own a personal vehicle.  
 
Transportation modes  
How often do you use 
the following modes of 
transportation?  
Drive 
Alone 
% 
Carpool 
% 
Rideshare 
% 
Bus 
% 
Rail 
% 
Bike %  Walk %  
daily  66 6 0 3 3 6 63 
weekly  31 22 0 3 3 44 16 
monthly  0 22 16 13 9 6 6 
every_few_months  3 19 19 6 34 9 3 
once_per_year  0 0 6 25 22 3 3 
never  0 31 59 50 28 31 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 53 of 59 
 
 
Transportation concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included above:  
o Inadequate hubs & parking for direct travel to Big & Little Cottonwood Canyons from East 
Millcreek 
o Our county had one of the original light rail systems that was removed for automobile travel 
in the 1950s, 60s, we need more parkways dedicated to human powered travel like bike, 
walk, run, a good example is the Jordan River Parkway, with tunnels and bridges to avoid 
large vehicle traffic. While another freeway like Bangerter would be nice along a1300 East 
north and south corridor, there would be no room for parking, the only drawback to a 
parkway or narrow human power trail in its place would be the need for us  to plan ahead, 
easier to build than freeways. right of ways on private property. 
o There is poor parking at base of big cottonwood to use the bus system. Bus system does not 
run often enough 
o Education to change people's behavior typically takes a generation to see significant 
results.Let's start now! 
o need active transportation trails 
o Pollution and safety are number one. 
o Public Transportation in the Canyons is virtually non-existent 
o Public transportation (at least, other than for skiing) should be inexpensive 
o Not adequate parking for canyon traffic. Not enough free shuttles to ski resorts during ski 
season. 
  
0 20 40 60 80 100
Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure
Traffic congestion
Unsafe travel
Inadequate public transportation
Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g.
sidewalks, bike lanes)
Inability to effectively trip chain (link more than one
destination/mode of travel)
How important are the following transportation concerns? 
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
Page 54 of 59 
 
 
Possible transportation adaptations 
• Changes that would encourage you to use modes of transportation other than single occupancy 
vehicles more often:  
 
Areas of importance  
• Historic areas in your community that you think should be preserved:  
o Parking lots are necessary, for travelers into the canyons to get out of their cars & utilize  
mass transit 
o No, tear them down they are not safe, non-reinforced masonary, new structures are safer 
and energy effecientafer  
o Alta and Brighton both need to be preserved. The canyons are the Jewel of the Wasatch. 
Unfortunately people that don't ;ive or work there think they knowwhat the canyons need. 
That is not always the case!  
o Wheeler Historic Farm and surroundings- walking, farmers market 
o Our entire community of Granite is an historic area. 
o Pioneer heritage monuments and buildings that provide a sense of history. 
18
15
13
11
10
8
7
7
6
6
5
2
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
more_frequent_rail_and_bus_service
park_and_ride_options
increased_ease_of_trip_chaining
express_bus_and_rail_service
continued_or_increased_poor_air_quality
better_location_of_bus_and_rail_stops
improved_telecommuting_options
safer_sidewalks
employer_incentives_program
increased_cost_of_parking_gasoline_or_other_single_
vehicle_related_fees
proximity_of_destinations_to_one_another
improved_carpool_vanpool_shuttle_rideshare_options
Which of the following changes would encourage you to use 
modes of transportation other than single occupancy vehicles 
more often? (check all that apply)
Count
Page 55 of 59 
 
 
o alta ski resort. 
Growth and development concerns  
 
• Other concerns not included in the list above:  
o With 2 large ski areas just 8 & 10 miles east of our Granite community, we experience several 
adverse problems: grafitti; excessive numbers of individual cars using SR-209 & SR-210; 
inadequate mountain/canyon transit system; inadequate provisions for bicyclists & 
pedestrians in the community traffic mix; no Dark Sky considerations;  
 
• Is there something else you’d like to add?  
o We need a gondola mass transit system similar to the Telluride Mountain Village gondola or 
the one in Andorra linking Sandy, Alta, Brighton, and Park City 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
Parks and open spaces
Clean air
Safe homes and neighborhoods
Managing light/noise pollution
Walkability
High standards for design and aesthetics
Parking availability
Sustainability and energy efficiency
Digital infrastructure
Access to economic and educational opportunities
Linking economic development with transportation and…
Affordability of housing
Availability of cultural activities
Limiting growth and development
Business mix
Historical preservation
How important are the following types of development in your 
area?
Combined "very important" and "important" percentage
Page 56 of 59 
 
 
o We need more parking in any and all potential bus terminal location that are considered for 
mass transit into Big and Little Cottonwood 
o We have been discussing the transportation issue since the 1970's and nothing effective has 
been done. I really don't think it's that hard 
o Actually, public transportation in Murray is pretty good. PT in the canyons is not. 
 
 
  
Page 57 of 59 
 
 
APPENDIX A 
 
Planning for Transportation and Land Use   
 
Instructions: This is a transportation and land use planning survey designed for community members living in 
the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD). Completing the survey will take approximately five to 
ten minutes. Thank you for taking the time to share your views on current and future transportation and land 
use options in your community! Your views will contribute to the development of a general plan for your 
area. For more information please contact KaDavies@msd.utah.gov 
 
1. Where do you live? 
• Brighton 
• Copperton 
• Emigration 
• Kearns 
• Magna 
• White City 
• Unincorporated 
• Other  
 
2.    How often do you use the following modes of transportation? 
• Drive Alone 
• Carpool 
• Rideshare 
• Bus 
• Rail 
• Bike 
• Walk 
o daily 
o weekly 
o monthly 
o every_few_months 
o once_per_year 
o never 
 
3. How often do you link more than one destination/mode when you travel (trip chaining)? 
• daily 
• weekly 
• monthly 
• every_few_months 
• once_per_year 
• never 
 
4. Think about a place where transportation works well in your community. Click on the map below to drop 
a pin on that location. Experiment with the tools to zoom in or out and to scroll around to different 
locations. [Where transportation works well] 
Page 58 of 59 
 
 
 
5. Think about a place where transportation doesn't work well in your community. Click on the map below 
to drop a pin on that location. Experiment with the tools to zoom in or out and to scroll around to 
different locations. [Where transportation doesn't work well] 
 
6. On a scale of very important, important, or not important; which of the following transportation 
problems are the most important to address?  
• Traffic congestion 
• Inadequate public transportation 
• Unsafe travel  
• Inadequate bicycle and/or pedestrian infrastructure (e.g. sidewalks, bike lanes) 
• Inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure 
• Inability to effectively trip chain (link more than one destination/mode of travel) 
o very_important 
o important 
o not_imprtant 
 
6a. Please specify any other transportation concerns that are not included in the list above 
 
7. Which of the following changes would encourage you to use modes of transportation other than single 
occupancy vehicles more often? (check all that apply) 
• Safer sidewalks 
• More frequent rail and bus service 
• Express bus and rail service 
• Better location of bus and rail stops 
• Cleaner bus and rail options 
• Increased ease of trip chaining 
• Increased cost of parking, gasoline, or other single vehicle-related fees 
• Continued or increased poor air quality 
• Proximity of destinations to one another 
• Improved carpool vanpool shuttle rideshare options 
• Improved telecommuting options 
• Employer incentives program 
• Park and ride options 
 
8. Click on the map below to drop a pin on a building or area in your community (other than your home) 
that is important to you. Experiment with the tools to zoom in or out and to scroll around to different 
locations. 
 
8a. Why is this building or area important to you? 
 
9. Are there any historic areas in your community that you think should be preserved? Why is this 
structure/area important to you? 
 
10. On a scale of very important, important, or not important; how important are the following items in 
terms of development in your area? 
• Affordability of housing 
Page 59 of 59 
 
 
• High standards for design and aesthetics 
• Linking economic development with transportation and housing decisions 
• Availability of cultural activities 
• Limiting growth and development 
• Managing light/noise pollution 
• Parking availability 
• Sustainability and energy efficiency 
• Walkability 
• Digital infrastructure 
• Safe homes and neighborhoods 
• Historical preservation 
• Parks and open spaces 
• Business mix 
• Clean air 
• Access to economic and educational opportunities 
• Other 
 
11. Is there something else you'd like to add? 
 
12. Are you? 
• Male 
• Female 
• Prefer not to say 
 
13. Age Group 
• Under 18 
• 18 - 34 
• 35 - 49 
• 50 - 64 
• 65+ 
• Prefer not to say 
 
14. Do you hold a valid driver's license? 
• Yes 
• No 
 
15. Do you own a personal vehicle? 
• Yes 
• No 
 
Thanks for helping your community plan for its future! 
 
Kearns T own Center Master Plan Existing Business Survey Results
Kearns Town Center Master Plan Existing 
Business Survey 1
In August 2020, a survey was released to Kearns’ business owners in the 
proposed T own Center Character Area. Respondents were asked about 
their thoughts on the Kearns T own Center Master Plan (2019), benefits 
and challenges to conducting business in Kearns, and business needs that 
could be supported through policies, programs, and other interventions.
Out of the 35 businesses that were contacted by email, mailed letters, and 
door-to-door calls by staff members, 9 responded. The survey results can 
be viewed by following this link.
The area of Kearns covered by this survey.
  
   
 Housing 
Plan 
  2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Planning and Development Services 
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District 
November 2019  

2 
  
 
 
 
Acknowledgements  
 
Kearns  Metro Township  
 Planning Commission 
 Kearns Metro Township Council 
 Residents 
 
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District  
 Lupita McClenning, Director of Planning and Development Services 
 Wendy Gurr, Planning Coordinator 
Mikala Jordan, Long Range Planner 
 Max Johnson, Planner II 
 Alex Rudowski, Planning and GIS 
 
  
3 
  
Contents  
Executive Summary  ...............................................................................................5  
Chapter One  - Introduction .....................................................................................6  
Plan Structure ..........................................................................................................6  
Planning Context .....................................................................................................6  
Purpose of the Plan ................................................................................................. 7 
Moderate-Income Housing Planning Requirements ...............................................8  
Utah Fair Housing Act ........................................................................................... 12 
Terminology ......................................................................................................... 12 
Types of Housing and Development .................................................................. 12 
Regarding Income ............................................................................................. 13 
Programs and Agencies ..................................................................................... 14 
Chapter Two  - Methodology ................................................................................ 15 
Background Research ........................................................................................... 15 
Consultation and Collaboration ........................................................................... 15 
Community Engagement ...................................................................................... 16 
Chapter Three  – Demographic Summary ............................................................ 19 
Population Size ..................................................................................................... 19 
Age........................................................................................................................ 19 
Race and Ethnicity ................................................................................................ 19 
Disabled ................................................................................................................ 20 
Veterans ............................................................................................................... 20 
Income .................................................................................................................. 20 
Chapter Four  – Housing Stock.............................................................................. 22 
Existing Housing ................................................................................................... 22 
Existing Housing Costs .......................................................................................... 26 
Cost-Burdened Housing ....................................................................................... 27 
4 
  
Housing and Land-use .......................................................................................... 28 
Chapter Five  – Housing Availability and Affordability .......................................... 31 
Indication of Need by Demographics ................................................................... 31 
Targeted Income Groups and Affordability Thresholds ....................................... 32 
Targeted Income Groups by Family Size ............................................................ 34 
Other Targeted Groups ..................................................................................... 34 
Availability of Housing Units for Targeted Income Groups .................................. 36 
All Households ................................................................................................... 36 
Renter Households ............................................................................................ 36 
Projected Availability of Housing Units for Targeted Income Groups .................. 38 
Chapter Six  – Action Plan ..................................................................................... 39 
Chapter Seven  – References ................................................................................ 42 
Chapter Eight  – Appendix .................................................................................... 43 
Topics ................................................................................................................... 43 
Example Ordinances ............................................................................................. 46 
List of Relevant Organizations and Websites  ........................................... 46 
Methods ............................................................................................................... 48 
 
  

5 
  
Executive Summary  
 
Highlights of Report 
 In 2017, Kearns’ population was 37,194. 
 A significant portion of Kearns’ population is under 18-years old, 
and young children are the fastest growing age group. 
 2,627 households in Kearns are cost-burdened with their 
housing costs. 
 Salt Lake County’s 2017 median household income is $67,922.  
For renter households, the median income is $42,351. 
 In 2017, Kearns had a deficit of 112 housing units across 
targeted income groups. 
  

6 
  
Chapter One  - Introduction 
 
Plan Structure 
This housing plan is organized into six major sections: 
1. Introduction 
2. Methodology 
3. Demographic Summary 
4. Housing Stock 
5. Housing Availability and Affordability 
6. Action Plan 
The sections progress from an understanding of the plan’s impetus and the community’s existing 
conditions, to the methods used to make this plan, to an analysis of affordable housing in the 
community, to an action plan to accomplish Kearns’ goals. 
 
Planning Context 
State code requires that general plans estimate the need for moderate-income housing.  This plan 
estimates the current need and projects the future need in Kearns Metro Township.  The 
assessment of current conditions guided the development of goals and action items in the 
Moderate-Income Housing Plan.  These goals a ddress community needs regarding housing, 
including its connection to land -use and transportation.  Our findings can inform on -the-ground 
decisions and township policies as well as General Plan updates and future planning.  The housing 
plan will be reviewe d biennially using the Department of Workforce Services’ Report Form.  The 
review will evaluate Kearns’ progress toward its goals and policies regarding housing as outlined 
in this plan. 
Kearns Metro Township and the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District understand that good 
planning encourages and includes public  input.  This assessment will be shared during public 
outreach events regarding the formation of the Moderate-Income Housing Plan.  Additionally, the 
metro township council, metro township planning commission, and general plan steering 
committee will receive copies of this assessment via email and/or in-person at meetings.   
Additionally, Kearns Metro Township and the G reater Salt Lake Municipal Services District 
recognize the importance of regional cooperation, especially regarding housing.  Kearns’ planners 
are actively engaged in the Wasatch Front Regional Council committees, including the Technical 
Advisory Committee, the Active Transportation Committee, and the Regional Growth Committee.  
Expertise and information from the Utah Department of Workforce Services, Housing and 
Community Development Division; the Wasatch Front Regional Council; the Utah League of Cities 
and Towns; Zions Public Finance; and others all contributed to this assessment.   
  
7 
  
Purpose of the Plan 
Based upon regulatory requirements by the State of Utah, existing conditions, future projections, 
community feedback, and planning best practices, the plan has the following objectives: 
Meet regulatory requirements by reporting the current status of housing to the State of 
Utah and to provide a methodology to meet community needs . House Bill 295 
(represented in Utah Code 10 -9a-403 and 10- 9a-408) and Senate Bill 34 state these 
regulatory requirements.  
Provide Kearns Metro Township  with the necessary resources to inform residential 
development decisions to be beneficial, fair, e quitable, and a good fit for the needs of 
residents.  Decisions made regarding zoning, fees, land -use planning, and other choices 
can impact housing.   These decisions are best made with full and detailed information 
regarding current and future conditions and needs. 
Provide an action plan and tools for implementing community goals.   The action plan is 
presented as broad goals with specific objectives, as well as with policies and work 
programs that support these goals and objectives.  The action plan informs how to put 
ideas into practice.  
Enhance quality of life in the community with a community-based, ground-truthed housing 
plan.  Housing matters.  Affordable, safe housing bolster’s the well-being of its residents at 
all income levels.  When people are housed affordably, crime rates drop, and poverty is 
reduced.  Low -income households depend less on public assistance and are more self -
reliant when housed safely, affordably, and stably.  When the workforce can afford to live 
in the community, businesses have access to employees, which influences the wages 
employees are willing to work for and thus impacts the number of well -paying jobs that 
local businesses offer.  Furthermore, housing is directly tied to transportation, land -use, 
and community cohesion.  Well- planned neighborhoods with balanced housing options 
improve traffic congestion, are compatible with community open -space needs, and keep 
“eyes on the street,” which encourages walkability and neighborliness.  Overall, the 
presence of decent, affordable housing supports and bolsters the long -term character of 
the Kearns community and the County as a whole.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
  
 
The following legislative information is provided for context regarding the requirements of the 
Moderate-Income Housing Plan.  From this context, the reasons for the information included in the 
assessment of current conditions become apparent. 
Moderate-Income Housing Planning Requirements 
In 1996, the Utah Legislature passed House Bill 295 to address the availability of moderate-income 
housing in response to  a rapid increase in housing prices.  Under threats to the dream of 
homeownership, as well as to community strength and stability, House Bill 295 (represented in 
Utah Code 10 -9a-403 and 10 -9a-408) requi res municipalities to consider moderate -income 
housing concerns and housing needs of residents as part of their general plans and other planning 
efforts.  The Code requires an estimate of the “need for the development of additional moderate-
income housing within the city, and a plan to provide a realistic opportunity to meet estimated 
needs” to “(A) meet the needs of people desiring to live there; and (B) to allow persons with 
moderate incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of neighbor hood and 
community life.”  In 2018, House Bill 259 was passed to reiterate the importance of planning for 
moderate-income housing in Utah.  In February 2019, Senate Bill 34 was passed.  The new 
legislation “modifies provisions related to a municipality’ s and a county’s general plan related to 
moderate income housing.”  It defines terms, requires general plans to integrate affordable 
housing with the transportation and land -use elements, and requires municipalities of a certain 
population size to have a moderate -income housing element in the general plan.  Senate Bill 34 
states that, for qualifying municipalities, the general plan must “provid[e] a realistic opportunity 
to meet the need for additional moderate-income housing” by including at least three of 23 listed 
strategies.        
The Wasatch Front Regional Council and the Utah League of Cities and Towns produced a summary 
of the current legal requirements (and changes to previous requirements) for municipalities and 
counties regarding planning and moderate-income housing.  They summarize: 
Land Use element: Must now consider location of land for housing for residents of various 
income levels in addition  to the other categories of public and private uses of land (line 
481 for municipalities; 1172 for counties). 
Transportation and Traffic Circulation element: “Provide the general location and extent” 
of active transportation facilities in addition to freeways, arterial and  collector streets, 
public transit, and other modes of transportation (491; 1182). 
Plan residential and commercial development around “major transit investment corridors” 
to improve  connections between housing, employment, education, recreation, and 
commerce (494; 1185). 
Defines “major transit investment corrid or” as public transit service that uses or 
occupies: (a) public transit rail right-of-way; (b) dedicated road right-of-way for the 
use of public transit, such as bus rapid transit; or  (c) fixed -route bus corridors 
subject to an interlocal agreement or cont ract between a municipality or  county 
9 
  
and (i) a public transit district as defined in Section 17B -2a-802, or (ii) an eligible 
political subdivision as defined in Section 59-12-2219 (246; 858). 
Municipalities without a major transit investment corridor must plan for residential 
and commercial development in areas that maintain and improve these 
connections (498). 
Correlate the transportation plan with population and employment projections, and the 
proposed land use element (502, 1188). 
Consider the regional transportation plan developed by the region’s metropolitan planning 
organization (MPO); if outside an MPO, consider the long- range transportation plan 
developed by UDOT (575; 1258). 
Moderate-Income Housing (MIH) element:  Municipalities/counties covered: Utah Code 
has long required municipalities and counties to plan for  moderate income housing 
growth. SB34 requires, by December 1, 2019, the following municipalities and counties to 
update and adopt the moderate-income housing element of their general plan (444; 1074), 
and annually report on implementation (614; 1296): 
all municipalities of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th class; 
cities of the 5th class with a population of 5,000 or more that are located in 
counties of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd class; 
metro townships with a population of 5,000 or more; and 
all counties must plan and adopt a MIH element including strategies from the 
‘menu’ (see below) but only  counties of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd class with an 
unincorporated population of 5,000 or more must annually  report on 
implementation. 
Facilitate a reasonable opportunity for a variety of housing including MIH and shall now 1) 
meet the needs of  people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to live or 
work in the community (509; 1198); 2) “allow people with various incomes to benefit from 
and participate in all aspects of neighborhood and  community life” (511; 1200); 3) towns 
may and cities shall analyze how they will provide a realistic opportunity for the 
development of MIH within 5 ye ars for cities (513) and within the planning horizon for 
counties (1203). 
Menu: Shall include a recommendation to implement 3 or more of the following strategies, 
aka the ‘menu’ (518; 1205): 
(A) rezone for densities necessary to assure the production of MIH 
(B) facilitate the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that will encourage the 
construction of MIH 
(C) facilitate the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into MIH 
10 
  
(D) consider general fund subsidies or other sources of revenu e to waive construction 
related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the city 
(E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, accessory dwelling units in 
residential zones 
(F) allow for higher density or moderate -income residential deve lopment in commercial 
and mixed-use zones, commercial centers, or employment centers 
(G) encourage higher density or moderate -income residential development near major 
transit investment corridors 
(H) eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residentia l development where a 
resident is less likely to rely on their own vehicle, e.g. residential development near major 
transit investment corridors or senior living facilities 
(I) allow for single room occupancy developments 
(J) implement zoning incentives for low to moderate income units in new developments 
(K) utilize strategies that preserve subsidized low to moderate income units on a long-term 
basis 
(L) preserve existing MIH 
(M) reduce impact fees, as defined in Section 11-36a-102, related to low and MIH 
(N) participate in a community land trust program for low or MIH 
(O) implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality or of an 
employer that provides contracted services to the municipality 
(P) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax 
incentives to promote the construction of MIH 
(Q) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs offered by the Utah 
Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity 
(R) app ly for or partner with an entity that applies for affordable housing programs 
administered by the Department of Workforce Services 
(S) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs administered by an 
association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter 
13, Interlocal Cooperation Act [not in county list of recommendations] 
(T) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing 
authority to preserve and create MIH 
(U) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for programs administered by a 
metropolitan planning organization or other transportation agency that provides technical 
planning assistance 
11 
  
(V) utilize a MIH set aside from a community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, 
or community development and renewal agency 
(W) any other program or strategy implemented by the municipality to address the housing 
needs of residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income 
In addition to the recommendations required above, municipalities that have a “fixed 
guideway public transit station” shall include a recommendation to implement either “G” 
or “H” (568) [not required for counties]. 
Annual reporting and review of the moderate-income housing plan: The municipal/county 
legislative body shall annually review their MIH plan and implementation of that plan; 
prepare and post a report of their findings on their website; and send the report to Dept. 
of Workforce Services, AOG, and MPO if applicable (612; 1294). 
The report shall include: a) revised estimate of the need for MIH in the next 5 years; 
b) description of  progress made to provide MIH by analyzing and publishing data 
on the # of housing units that are at or below 80%, 50%, and 30% adjusted median 
family income; c) description of efforts to utilize a MIH  set-aside from community 
reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development an d 
renewal agency; d) description of the implementation of the MIH 
recommendations aka ‘menu’. 
Requires the DWS Division of Housing and Community Development to (i) assist in 
the creation of the MIH reports, and (ii) evaluate the reports for purposes of 
determining eligibility for state transportation funds.  Gives DWS rulemaking 
authority to develop the evaluation process (1414). 
Revisions to Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund (1325): SB34 did not provide any additional 
funding for housing. Revises Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund board to add one member 
with expertise in transit -oriented develop ment and  one member who represents rural 
interests. The board must hold two public input meetings each year, once in a rural  area. 
Allows fund money to be used to purchase land for low-income housing (1388). 
Revisions to state transportation funding: Adds access to educational facilities and MIH to 
the prioritization process for new transportation capacity  projects administered by the 
Utah Transportation Commission (1749).  State Transportation Investment Fund (TIF) or 
Transit Transportation Investment Fund (TTIF) funds may not be used in a municipality or 
unincorporated county that has failed to adopt a MIH plan or has failed to report on 
implementation of their MIH plan as determined by DWS. TIF funds can still be used for a 
limited-access facility, but not  for construction, reconstruction, or renovation of an 
interchange. TTIF funds can still be used  for a multi -community fixed -guideway public 
transportation project, but not for the construction,  reconstruction, or renovation of a 
station (1808). 
 
12 
  
Utah Fair Housing Act 
In accordance with state and federal laws, Kearns Metro Township exercises the authority to plan, 
zone, and  regulate land -use in promoting the community’s health, safety, and  welfare. The 
moderate-income housing element of this plan acknowledges and upholds the Utah Fair Housing 
Act by promoting the equal protection and equitable treatment of all people who lawfully seek to 
rent, lease, purchase, or develop real property within its jurisdiction. Its housing policies and plans 
strictly prohibit discrimination based on color, disability, ethnicity, familial status, gender identity, 
national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, source of  income, or any other suspect 
classification. It is the policy of Kearns  Metro Township to report housing discrimination to the 
Utah Antidiscrimination Labor Division  immediately. It is the goal of Kearns  Metro Township to 
prevent, eliminate, and/or mitigate any unfair housing practices that may result from its plans, 
policies, regulations, and ordinances. It is also the goal Kearns  Metro Township to affirmatively 
further fair and  affordable housing by reviewing the housing needs of its moderate -income 
households and its vulnerable populations  biennially, and by proactively plann ing to meet their 
needs. 
 
Terminology 
A variety of terms are used in this plan in reference to housing.  The following list defines and 
explains these terms: 
Types of Housing and Development 
Housing unit: a house, an apartment, a group of rooms, or a single room occupied or intended for 
occupancy as separate living quarters 
Single-family residential: housing units that are individually assessed and can be bought and sold 
as a single unit.  This includes single-family dwellings, townhomes, condos, and mobile homes. 
Multi-family residential: housing units such as duplexes and apartments, that are typically rented  
Workforce housing:  housing for which gross monthly costs target working class households. 
Workforce housing aims to allow people gainfully employed in working class occupations to live 
and work in the same community. (Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018). 
Fair housing: The Federal Fair Housing Act (Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968) protects people 
from discrimination when they are renting, buying, or securing financing for any housing.  The 
prohibitions specifically cover discrimination because of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, 
disability, and children.  In Utah, state law also recognizes source of income as a protected class. 
(Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018).  
Transit-oriented development (TOD): type of development that maximizes the amount of mixed -
use development that is built around quality transit hubs, including train and bus centers.  Linking 
housing and transportation can give workers better access to jobs, and businesses better access 
to potential employees and customers.  (Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018). 
13 
  
Mixed-use development: pedestrian-friendly development that blends two or more residential, 
commercial, cultural, institutional, and/or industrial uses.  A mixed -use development may have 
retail space on the bottom floor of a multi -story building with offices and apartments on the 
middle and top floors.  It can provide for ample job opportunities, convenience amenities, and a 
high walkability score for individuals on re sidential floors or residing in nearby communities. 
(Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018). 
Accessory dwelling unit (ADU): small, self-contained residential units located on the same lot as 
an existing, single-family home.  These can be attac hed or detached units. (Definition from ULCT 
“Housing Policy in Utah” 2018). 
Infill development: development of vacant or under -used parcels within existing urban centers 
that are otherwise built- out and fully developed. (Definition from ULCT “Housing Poli cy in Utah” 
2018). 
Regarding Income 
Area median income  (AMI): the median family income level for an area (in this report, Salt Lake 
County) as determined by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, based on 
U.S. Census data.  The median divides the income distribution into two equal parts: one-half of the 
cases fall below the median income and one -half above it.  HUD uses the median income to 
calculate income limits for eligibility in a variety of housing programs.  HUD estimates the median 
family income for an area and adjusts that amount for different family sizes.  Referred to as AMI 
in this plan. 
Target income groups:  Low-income households are split into three groups based upon a 
percentage of the AMI.  They are referred to as the Targeted Income Groups in this plan.  The 
three groups include: 
 Moderate-income – 80 to 50 percent of AMI 
 Low-income – 50 to 30 percent of AMI 
 Very low-income – 30 percent of AMI and less 
Monthly housing allowance: the maximum amount a household can spend on housing costs per 
month, including utilities and other fees.  The monthly housing allowance represents the total 
housing costs affordable at 30 percent of gross income. ( Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in 
Utah” 2018). 
Housing Cost-Burden: a household that spends 30% or more of their income on housing costs, 
including rent and utilities. 
Affordability threshold: the maximum home price for each of the targeted income groups  based 
on calculated monthly housing allowances 
Housing gap: the difference between the number of housing units available at 30, 50, 80, and 100 
percent AMI and the number of households at those income levels.  If there are more households 
14 
  
than available housing units, then households are forced to pay above or bel ow their means for 
their housing. 
Programs and Agencies 
Affordable Housing Program (AHP): a federal competitive program of the Federal Home Loan Bank 
system that provides grants twice a year through financial institutions for investment in low-  or 
moderate-income housing initiatives.  This program is flexible: AHP funds can be used in 
combination with other programs and funding sources, helping makes projects more feasible. 
(Definition from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018). 
American Community Survey (ACS ):  an annual survey administered by the U.S. Census Bureau 
that gathers demographic and economic data from a sample of the U.S. population. 
Utah Department of Workforce Services  (DWS): an agency that consolidates employment and 
public assistance programs to help people find jobs, to assist businesses in finding workforces, and 
to support housing needs. 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD): This agency develops and implements 
policies regarding housing and metropolises.  The Utah branch offers programs to help provide 
affordable housing. 
Low-income housing tax credit program (LIHTC):  This program was formed in the Federal Tax 
Reform Act of 1986.  Developer-owners of LIHTC properties can get credits for federal income tax 
liability, so the program incentives developers to invest in affordable housing projects.  There are 
also state run  LIHTC programs.  The Utah Housing Corporation (UHC), made in 1975 by Utah 
legislation, creates an adequate supply of money available for mortgage loans at reasonable 
interest rates help provide affordable housing for low- and moderate-income persons. (Definition 
from ULCT “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018). 
Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund (OWHLF):  Created in 1987 by the State of Utah, the OWHLF 
supports quality affordable housing options to meet the needs of Utah’s individuals and families.  
The fund partners with public and private organizations to develop housing that is affordable for 
moderate-income, low-income, and very low-income households. (Definition from ULCT “Housing 
Policy in Utah” 2018). 
United States Census Bureau (USCB):  a federal agency in charge of the decennial census and the 
yearly American Community Survey data on population and demographics throughout the United 
States. 
Utah Non-Profit Housing Corporation (UNPHC): a non-profit that aims to help develop and provide 
affordable housing to families throughout Utah. 
  
15 
  
Chapter T wo  - Methodology 
 
Background Research 
A variety of resources were used in the formation of this plan .  Data were retrieved from the 
United States Census Bureau American Community Surveys, ESRI Business Analyst Online, and Salt 
Lake County Geographic Information Systems.  The Utah Department of Workforce Services, 
Housing and Community Development Division, provides a database of resources to assist 
municipalities in the creation of their moderate -income housing plans.  The following resources 
were particularly critical in this assessment’s development: 
• Moderate-income housing element outline 
• Moderate-income plan writing guide 
• DWS housing projection tool 
• Model resolution for amending the general plan 
• Affordable housing plan examples:  
o City of Meropis: Moderate-Income Housing Plan 
o Salt Lake County: Moderate-Income Housing Plan 2017 
o Sandy City General Plan: Section 3 Housing Needs 
o South Salt Lake City: Moderate-Income Housing Plan 
o State of Utah Affordable Housing Report 2018 
o Snyderville Basin and East Summit County: Housing Affordability Assessment  
 
Consultation and Collaboration  
Planning staff collaborated with and consulted various housing experts in researching and writing 
this plan.  On 18 May 2019, staff attended SB 34 housing training sessions hosted by The Utah 
League of Cities and Towns.  Staff consulted David Fields, Housing and Community Development, 
Utah Department of Workforce Services, regarding SB 34 requirements for the metro townships.  
Staff also corresponded with Meg Ryan, The Utah League of Cities and Towns, for her information 
and expertise on housing legislation.   Planning staff met with Michael Gallegos and Jake Young, 
Salt Lake County, Department of Housing and Community Development to discuss housing 
opportunities for Kearns.   On 22 August 2019, staff attended the Salt Lake  County Community 
Needs Assessment Meeting.  Hosted by Salt Lake County, Department of Housing and Community 
Development, this meeting brought together stakeholders from throughout the Greater Salt Lake 
Municipal Services District to discuss community needs, including housing. 
  
16 
  
Community Engagement  
Greater Salt Lake MSD Planning staff focused on eliciting pubic desires and needs for housing with 
the goal of completing the Housing Element by the December 2019 deadline.  Beginning early July, 
staff coordinated with Mayor Kelly Bush about the required Moderate-Income Housing Plan.  Staff 
developed and sent a timeline for accomplishing this Plan.  In early August, staff surveyed the 
Metro Township Council  and the Planning Commission  for a preferred Housing Element Open 
House date.  From this feedback, planning staff scheduled a Housing Element Open House on 28 
September 2019.  The Open House included Magna, Kearns, White City Metro Townships, and 
Unincorporated Salt Lake County. Salt Lake County Department of Housing and Community 
Development also participated in the Open House.  
Staff kept the Metro Township Council, Planning Commission, and General Plan Steering 
Committee updated on the Housing Element Open House agenda and asked that the Open House 
be promulgated by inviting friends and neighbors.  Stakeholders were provided the Housing Plan 
timeline, a summary of Senate Bill 34, and the Department of Workforce Services Moderate -
Income Housing Plan Writing Guide.  A flyer announcing the Open House was posted on Kearns  
Metro Township website as well as Kearns Community Council facebook page.  Staff also reached 
out to local and state agencies and non -profits concerned with housing and invited them to the 
Housing Element Open House.  While coordinating with the Metro Township Council and Planning 
Commission, planning staff sent drafts of Kearns’ Housing Assessment for their reference.  A final 
draft of the assessment was prepared for the Housing Element Open House.      
At the Housing Element Open House, Randy Jepperson from Salt Lake Cou nty Regional 
Development spoke about the Green and Healthy Homes Initiative.  This exemplified the kind of 
program that Kearns  could partner with to strengthen its moderate -income housing supply.  
Following Randy’s presentation, Christie Oostema from People + Place, LLC spoke with residents 
about community needs and informed them of the Consolidated Plan.   
 

17 
  
As part of the Open House, participants were asked to provide community feedback.  Planning 
staff worked with communities in break -out sessions.  Large printed maps of current zoning, 
housing, and transportation systems were used as visual aids.  Residents  from Kearns discussed 
many of the 23 Menu Items.  They talked through what they thought could be implemented and 
what they thought would be effective.   
When community members felt ready, they voted on their top three preferred Menu Items 
prescribed by SB  34.  These items were listed in large print on easels.  Each community was 
assigned a different color sticker for planning staff to record those items preferred by each 
community.  Kearns residents voted for six of the 23 elements (Table 1).  Additionally, a Comments 
Box was provided for the public to leave opinions not captured by the voting exercise.  
  

18 
  
Table 1: Kearns’ Votes for SB 34 Menu Items 
 
 
  
Menu Item Number of Votes 
B) Facilitate the rehabilitation or expansion of 
infrastructure that will encourage the 
construction of MIH 
1 
C) Facilitate the rehabilitation of existing 
uninhabitable housing stock into MIH 3 
E) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations 
related to, accessory dwelling units in 
residential zones 
4 
F) Allow for higher density or moderate-
income residential development in 
commercial and mixed-use zones, commercial 
centers, or employment centers 
1 
G) Encourage higher density or moderate-
income residential development near major 
transit investment corridors 
1 
L) Preserve existing MIH 2 

19 
  
Chapter Three  - Demographic Summary 
 
Population Size 
Kearns Metro Township is  in the central -west part of Salt Lake County.  Population in 201 7 
numbered approximately 37,194  people (ACS DP1 ) with a household size of 3. 75 (ACS DP2) .  
Population in 2017 showed a four percent increase from 2010’s population of 35,731 (ACS DP 4).  
Population is predicted to keep growing, but at a lower rate (Table 2 ).  The rate of population 
growth between 1990 and 2010 was 26 percent, while growth between 2000 and 2020 is 
predicted to be 19 percent.   
ESRI Business Analyst Online predicts a 2024 population of 37,804; similarly, Utah Department of 
Workforce Services predicts a 2024 population of 38,953 .  Given the high growth rates of 
surrounding areas and Kearns ’s relative location in the growing Salt Lake Valley, growth makes 
sense.  Salt Lake County’s 2017 population numbered 1,029,655 (ACS DP1).  Between 2010 and 
2017, Salt Lake County displayed a growth rate of 10 percent.   
Table 2: Historic and Projected Population 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: ACS DP1 and B01003; S. Manson, J. Schroeder, D. Van Riper, & S. 
Ruggles. IPUMS NGHIS: V13.0 [Database]. Minneapolis: University of 
Minnesota. 2018; ESRI Business Analyst Online “Demographic and Income 
Profile”; Department of Workforce Services (DWS) “5-Year Housing 
Projection Calculator” 
 
Age 
As of 2017 , Kearns’s median age was 29.6 years (ACS DP1).  This value shows an approximately 
one-year increase from 2010, when the median age was 28.4 years (ACS DP1). Kearns’s median 
age is about three years younger than Salt Lake County (32.9 years) (ACS DP 1). Median age is 
projected to increase slightly by 2024, to 30.7 years (ESRI Business Analyst Online “Demographic 
and Income Profile).  Kearns  has a numerous population of children; in fact, over 32 percent of 
people in Kearns are under 18 years old.  About eight percent of the population is elderly , or 65 
years or older (ACS DP 1).  ESRI Business Analyst Online predicts highest growth (18 percent) in 
young children (5 to 14) over the next five years (“Detailed Age Profile”).   
Race and Ethnicity 
Kearns has become increasingly racially and ethnically diverse.  In 2019, 21.0 percent of Kearns 
residents identify as some other race, 4.0 percent identify as two or more races, and 3.0 percent 
identify as Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islander (ESRI Business Analyst Online “Demographic 

20 
  
and Income Profile”).  35.3 percent of Kearns residents of any race identify as Hispanic or Latino/a.  
66.1 percent of Kearns residents are white.  Kearns is predicted to become more diverse by 2024, 
with a non-white population approaching 37 percent (ESRI Business Analyst Online “Demographic 
and Income Profile“).   
Disabled 
Of Kearns’s 37,172 people in 2017, 3,818 (or about 10.3 percent) had a disability in 2017 .  5.2 
percent had an ambulatory difficulty (ACS S1810). 4.2 percent had an independent living difficulty 
while 1.6 percent had a self- care difficulty (ACS S1810).  2.6  percent had a hearing difficulty; 4.7  
percent had a vision difficulty; and 5.6 percent had a cognitive difficulty (ACS S1810).   About a 
third of those 75 years and over had a hearing difficulty, ambulat ory difficulty, or independent 
living difficulty.  The most common disability for the population under 18 years old was having a 
cognitive difficulty: 617 children, or 7.0 percent of Kearns’s population of children, had a cognitive 
difficulty in 2017 (ACS S1810). 
Assuming this percentage (10.3 percent of total population) remains constant, Kearns could have 
3,894 people with disabilities in 202 4 using ESRI’s total population estimate of 37,804 or 4,012 
people with disabilities in 2024 using DWS’s  total population estimate of 38,953.  People with 
disabilities face particular difficulties regarding housing , from affordability to specific structural 
needs (such as wheelchair ramps, easy access to public transit, etc.).  Effective planning is needed 
to meet the needs of this group as its population grows.   
Veterans 
In 2017, 1,252 people (five percent of Kearns ’s population) were veterans (ACS S2101).  Of this 
population of veterans, 371 people had a disability (ACS B21100).  This means that about 30 
percent of veterans in Kearns had a disability in 2017.  Additionally, this means that 10 percent of 
all people with disabilities in Kearns  in 2017 were veterans . Carrying these percentages into the 
future, there may be 1,948  veterans in 2024 (using DWS estimate).  This translates to about 584 
veterans with disabilities in 2024.  
Income 
There are three main measures of household income: mean, median, and per capita.  Mean 
household income averages the income of all households in an area of consideration.  Kearns ’s 
2017 mean household income was $ 66,723 (ACS DP3).  Per capita income  is the  total income 
divided by the total population ; it conveys  per person  income assuming an even distribution.  
Kearns’s 2017 per capita income was $18,933 (ACS DP3).  Median household income is the middle 
amount when listing all household incomes from low to high.  MHI is a better indicator of typical 
income than the mean household income if there are high  or low outliers that artificially change 
the average.  Kearns ’s MHI in 2010 was $ 52,790; by 2017, MHI rose to $59,543 (ACS DP3).  In 
2017, MHI for owner -occupied households was $ 63,508 while MHI for renter households was 
$45,981 (ACS B25119).  
Area median income , AMI, is the median household income of the larger geography in which a 
municipality is located.  Both state guidelines and federal programs require housing to consider 
targeted low- and moderate-income groups in relation to housing affordability by using an AMI 
21 
  
calculation.  The scale of consideration must be regional.  This ensures a reasonable opportunity 
for moderate income households to move to the community.  Per Utah Senate Bill 34, the AMI 
used in this study is based on the AMI for Salt Lake County 1.  Salt Lake County’s 2017 AMI was 
$67,922 (Table 3).  It is important to note that the median income for Kearns , $ 59,543, is 
significantly below that of Salt Lake County.  Households of various types, such as renter 
households or single -female parent households, have different median incomes.   Types of 
households with median incomes well below the median include  renter households, Black or 
African American households, families with single female householder, female non -family 
householders, male non-family householders, and elderly households. 
Table 3: Median Household Income according to type of Household 
Data Source: ACS B25119 and S1903 
  
 
1 Utah State Legislature 10-9a-103: 36 “Moderate income housing means housing occupied or reserved for 
occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross 
income for households of the same size in the county in which the city is located.” 

22 
  
Chapter Four  - Housing Stock 
 
Existing Housing 
Housing value in Kearns  is concentrated in the range of $1 00,000 to $300,000 (Table 4).  91.9 
percent of the 8,102 owner-occupied houses, or 7,447 units, are valued in this range.  Slightly over 
one-third are valued between $150,00 and $199,999 while slightly under one-third are valued at 
$100,000 to $149,000.  Median value increased from $ 160,700 to $164,900 from 2010 to 2017.  
This marks 2.6  percent growth .  In comparison, Salt Lake County’s housing value grew by 9.8 
percent from $237,500 to $260,700.   
 
Table 4: 2017 Housing Values in Kearns  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Source: ACS DP4 
 
In 2017, Kearns held 9,892 occupied housing units (ACS DP4) (Table 5).  The mode type of unit was 
detached single units, which numbered 9,457.  There were also 100 attached single units .  198 
housing types are mobile homes and 185 housing types are 10 to 19-unit apartments.  2,273 units 
(22.3 percent) have seven rooms and 2,187 units (21.5 percent) have six rooms (ACS DP4) (Table 
6).  Most units have three bedrooms (4,296 units or 42.2 percent) or four bedrooms (3,440 units 
or 33.8 percent) (ACS DP4).   
 
 
 
 

23 
  
Table 5: Housing Types 
Data Source: ACS DP4 
 
Table 6: Number of Rooms and Bedrooms per Unit in 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Source: ACS DP4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

24 
  
Most units were owner-occupied (1,496 or 85.4 percent) but 255 units were rented (14.6 percent) 
(Table 7).  While 389 units were vacant in 2010, only 298  were vacant in 2017 (ACS DP4).  In 
comparison to 2019 numbers, ESRI predicts that 230  more owner-occupied units and 31  more 
renter-occupied units will be available in Kearns by 2024 (“Demographic and Income Profile”).  
Table 7: Housing Occupancy in Kearns 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Source: ACS DP4; ESRI Business Analyst Online “Demographic and Income Profile” 
 
Salt Lake County has specific and recent summations of residential housing projects.  Based on Salt 
Lake County permitting records, between 2014  and 2019, 22 permits were issued for new 
residential, single family construction.   Five permits were issued for  residential multi- family 
construction, and four permits were issued for residential two family construction.  An additional 
222 certificates were issued for remodels, garages, living spaces, or additions.  In Table 8, projects 
with actual or potential in fluence on housing stock are included (for example, a new detached 
garage could be retrofitted as a mother -in-law apartment in the future).  From November 2014 
through July 2019, projects relevant to this assessment included: 
Table 8: Recent Residential Permits in Kearns  
Data Source: Salt Lake County “Residential Permits” 
  

25 
  
Kearns’ houses have reportedly  adequate facilities . In 2017, all housing units had  complete 
plumbing facilities and only 0.2 percent (19 units) lacked complete kitchen facilities  (ACS DP04) 
(Table 9).  In 2010, 35 housing units lacked plumbing facilities and 25 lacked  kitchen facilities, so 
improvement occurred over time.  Additionally, 99 households gained telephone services between 
2010 and 2017.  The majority—64 percent, or 6,516 houses—are at least 49 years old (built before 
1980).  Over one-third of houses ( 34.7 percent, 3,546 houses)) are about 60 years old or older 
(built before 1960).  21 housing units were built between 2010 and 2017.  Therefore, upkeep and 
maintenance costs for homeowners are likely high.   
Table 9: Housing Conditions and Age in Kearns  
Data Source: ACS DP4  

26 
  
Existing Housing Costs 
Housing costs are divided into nine categories.  They range from under $300 to more than $3,000 
per month.  About 62 percent of renters and owners pay between $1,000 and $1,999 a month in 
housing costs (Figures 1).  Similarly, about 60 percent of homeowners pay that much per month 
(Figure 2).  26 percent of renters pay between $500 and $999 per month.  12.9 percent of renters 
pay in the lowest three cost brackets while 20 percent of homeowners pay in these brackets.  Since 
median renter household income is significantly lower than median owner -occupied household 
income, this raises concern about rental unit affordability.   
 
Figures 1 and 2: 2017 Monthly Renter-Occupied Household Costs (top) and Owner-Occupied 
Household Costs (bottom)  
 
Data Source: ACS S2503 
  
220, 12.3%
6, 0.3%
0, 0.0%
175, 9.8%
288, 16.1%
728, 40.7%
373, 20.8%
0, 0.0%
0, 0.0%
0, 0.0%
  No cash rent
  Less than $300
  $300 to $499
  $500 to $799
  $800 to $999
  $1,000 to $1,499
  $1,500 to $1,999
  $2,000 to $2,499
  $2,500 to $2,999
  $3,000 or more
Monthly Costs
0, 0.0%
585, 7.2%
1,036, 12.8%
594, 7.3%
721, 8.9%
3,626, 44.8%
1,251, 15.4%
251, 3.1%
11, 0.1%
27, 0.3%
  No cash rent
  Less than $300
  $300 to $499
  $500 to $799
  $800 to $999
  $1,000 to $1,499
  $1,500 to $1,999
  $2,000 to $2,499
  $2,500 to $2,999
  $3,000 or more
Monthly Costs
27 
  
Cost-Burdened Housing 
HUD considers an affordable monthly housing payment for either an owner-occupied dwelling or 
rented unit to be no greater than 30 percent of gross monthly income.  This includes utilities and 
other housing costs such as mortga ge and hazard insurance.  When monthly housing payments 
cost more than 30 percent of gross monthly income, that household is said to be cost- burdened.  
Households can be cost- burdened at any income level.  The table below shows the 2017 rate of 
cost-burden households in Kearns  (Table 10).  2,627 households in Kearns experience cost -
burdened housing.  Some households at  all income-brackets experience cost-burdened housing.  
The most cost-burdened group is households with income between $20,000 to $34,999 per year; 
987 households in this bracket are cost-burdened.  1,880 of the 8,102 homeowner households are 
cost-burdened, while 747 of the 1,790 renter-occupied households are cost-burdened.  Between 
owners and renters, renters experience a greater housing cost- burden (Table 11).  Of particular 
concern is that almost  one-quarter of renters belonging to the second-lowest income bracket 
($20,000 to $34,999) are cost-burdened. 
Table 10: Percentage of Income going toward Housing, 2017 
Data Source: ACS DP4 
 
Table 11: Income Ranges who are Cost-Burdened with Housing by Occupancy, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Source: ACS S2503 
  

28 
  
Housing and Land-use 
Housing and land-use are tightly connected.  Zoning strongly influences how housing and land-use 
align.  Zoning regulations determine the standards for new development, including building size, 
lot size, and lot use.  Therefore, understanding current zoning provides context for what affordable 
housing opportunities are available based on existing conditions.  Current zones within Kearns are 
described briefly below: 
• A-1 – Agricultural: low density residential development with limited agricultural uses 
• C-2 – Community Commercial: neighborhood commercial development 
• C-3 – Regional Commercial: warehousing, wholesale business, and commercial uses 
• M-1 – Light Industrial: light industry such as animal hospitals or carpenter shop 
• M-2 – Heavy Industrial: heavy industry such as cement mixing plant or paper treatment 
• R-1-3 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: only SFD 
• R-1-5 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: allows single-family project developments 
• R-1-6 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: SFD, allows greenhouse/nursery 
• R-1-7 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling:  5.5 detached units per acre, 10k-3750k sq. ft.  
• R-1-8 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: SFD, allows greenhouse/nursery 
• R-1-43 – Residential Single-Family Dwelling: SFD, allows guest house and four horses 
• R-2-6.5 – Residential Single or Two-Family Dwelling: allows home business and agriculture 
• R-4-8.5 – Residential High Density: allows two dwelling units per structure per lot 
• R-M – Residential Multiple Family: high-density, includes business/professional offices 
• RMH – Residential Mobile Home: allows accessory buildings and agriculture 
Zones are often classified into six major categories: agricultural, commercial, industrial, plann ed 
community, residential, and residential multi- family.  About 89 percent of Kearns’s land area is 
zoned residential.  Most of the residential land is zoned for single-family dwellings (86 percent, or 
1,998 acres), while three percent (74.7 acres) is zoned for multi-family dwellings.  Two percent of 
the land (about 50 acres) is zoned Agricultural.  Commercial zones  occupy 74.2 acres, or three 
percent of the land.   Industrial land covers 122.8  acres along the north west border.  No land is 
zoned planned community. 
Zoning in Kearns is predominantly residential (Figure  3 and Map 1: Zoning).  The most common 
residential zone is R 1 -6 and R 1 -6/zc.  55.95 percent of Kearns’ land is zoned R 1 -6 or R 1 -6/zc 
(1,298 acres or 2 square miles).  The second most common residential zone is R 1 -7, which 
occupies 375 acres or 16 percent of the land.  168 acres are zoned R 1 -8, and 95 acres are zoned 
R 1-43.  R 1-6, R 1-7, and R 1-8 are single-family dwelling zones.  R 1-43, while also a single-family 
dwelling zone, has more permitted and conditional uses, such as fowl for family food production 
or greenhouses. There are 17.2 acres of land zoned for medium residential density (zones 2 -6.5 
and 4-8.5).  29.2 acres are zoned for mobile home parks (zone RMH).  45.5 acres are z oned for 
high-density residential (zones R -M and R -M/zc). 122.7 acres are zoned industrial (M1 or M2).  
Zone M1 occupies 4 percent of Kearns’ land while zone M2 takes up 1.2 percent.  74.3 acres are 
zoned commercial, with the majority zone C2 or C2/zc and only 0.4 acres zoned C3. 
29 
  
Figure 3: Land Area (Percent of Total) of Major Zoning Categories in Kearns 
 
Increased affordable housing can be created through several measures regarding land-use.  Non-
residential zones can become mixed-use zones that allow residences.  Residential zones with low 
density can become higher density residential zone 2s.  Infill deve lopment, or development of 
vacant urban lots, greenfield sites, or brownfield sites, can increase housing in the already dense 
areas of Kearns .  A zoning analysis with a character area map shows where changes to zoning 
regulations and land -use ordinances c ould be considered to increase affordable housing 
opportunities (Map 1).   
 
 
 
 
2 Increasing density does not necessarily mean allowing high-rise apartment complexes.  For a predominantly 
single-family dwelling area, increasing density could occur without changing the housing scape, simply by allowing 
Accessory Dwelling Units or the division of single-family dwellings into duplexes that still look like SFDs. 

Map 1: Zones in Kearns 
  

Chapter F ive  - Housing Availability and Affordability 
 
Indication of Need by Demographics 
Kearns’s demographics and existing housing stock demonstrate the need 
for certain characteristics for its current and future housing stock.  2,627 
households in Kearns are currently cost -burdened, and Kearns is mostly 
built-out.  Kearns has sizeable populations under 18 and over 65.  With a 
young, quickly growing, and ethnically diverse population, Kearns will 
need a variety of housing  that accommodates children, working 
professionals, and the elderly. 
 
This context directs options for a ffordable housing opportunities in 
Kearns.  Both h ousing type  and the location of housing matter for 
accommodating housing needs .  Housing located near schools, transit, 
and other amenities can minimize transportation costs and logistic 
difficulties for lo w-income, mobility -impaired, or single -parent 
households.  Proximity to amenities is also important for the elderly 
population (eight percent of Kearns ).  Throughout this section, specific 
housing availability and affordability needs are analyzed across income 
groups, occupant type, and household sizes.   
  
32 
  
Targeted Income Groups and Affordability Thresholds 
Income levels at 30 percent of AMI are considered  “very low-income,” while those at 50 percent 
are “low-income” and those at 80 percent are “moderate-income.”  These 30, 50, and 80 percent 
groups are targeted income groups.  In the following table, targeted income groups are calculated 
using both the area median income (Salt Lake County) value and the local median income (Kearns) 
value (Table 1 2).  Annual income was divided by twelve to give monthly household income.  
Monthly housing allowance represents total housing costs affordable at 30 percent o f gross 
monthly income.  This value is the upper limit that a household could pay without being housing 
cost-burdened.   
Table 12: 2017 Annual and Monthly Incomes and Housing Allowance 
Data Source: ACS B25119 
 
By using Salt Lake County’s AMI, calculations for Kearns may overestimate the community’s ability 
to afford housing.  For example, as shown in Table 11, 30 percent of Salt Lake County AMI is 
$20,377, but 30 percent of Kearns’s median income is $17, 863 (ACS B25119).  Due to this 
discrepancy, this plan recommends that officials and decision-makers understand the calculations 
as conservative estimates and encourages communities to strive for making housing as affordable 
as possible.  The discrepancy is driven by differences in median owner -occupied household 
income: $63,508 for Kearns while $83,922 for Salt Lake County (ACS B25119). However, median 
renter household income in Kearns  ($45,981) exceeds that of Salt Lake County ($42,351) (ACS 
B25119).  Due to the d iscrepancy between homeowner and renter households, targeted income 
groups were calculated separately for each (Tables 1 3 and 14).  To determine affordable rental 
rates, a household would subtract anticipated monthly utility costs from the total monthly housing 
allowance.   
 

Tables 13 and 14: 2017 Annual and Monthly Incomes and Housing Allowance – Renters (top) and Owners (bottom) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Source: ACS B25119 

Targeted Income Groups by Family Size 
The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) calculates income thresholds for 
targeted income groups according to family household size.  This helps decision -makers plan as 
effectively for one -person or eight- person households as the traditio nal four-person household.  
Table 15 below shows HUD calculations for income thresholds based on an inflation -adjusted 
value of $75,4003 for Salt Lake County’s 2017 median family income (MFI)4. 
Table 15: Salt Lake County 2017 HUD Median Family Income Thresholds by Household Size 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data Source: HUD “2017 Income Limits Documentation System” 
Other Targeted Groups 
When income is broken down according to demographic subsets, substantial differences among 
their median household incomes becomes visible.  These annual income differences lead to 
monthly income differences and thus monthly housing allowance differences.  This means that 
specific subsets of people have different affordability thresholds  (Table 16).  The  discrepancies 
between median income of homeowners and renters, male and female householders, elderly 
households, and others all translate into different thresholds for affordability.  
Four demographic subsets fall significantly below the area median household value: elderly 
householder, female non-family householder,  single female householder, and  Black or African 
American householder.  A single female raising her family at 30 percent AMI can only afford to pay 
$293 per month toward housing.   At 80 percent AMI, she can afford to pay $782 per month.   
Values for the elderly and Black or African American households are similar.  A female non-family 
household can afford to pay $492 at 80 percent AMI. 
  
 
3 Note that median family income exceeds median household income for Salt Lake County in 2017. 
4 While HUD AMFI 2018 estimations are available, other data in this report is 2017.  Therefore, we used HUD AMFI 
2017 numbers to stay consistent. 

35 
  
Table 16: Other Targeted Groups – 2017 Annual and Monthly Incomes and Housing Allowance  5 
 
Notes: The three rows in green are the three highest income levels and thus three highest monthly housing allowances.  Those highlig hted in red are the four 
lowest values. 
Data Source:  ACS B25119 and S1903  
 
5 All calculations and numbers reported in this table are Kearns-specific (rather than county-based), unless they say “Area,” which refers to Salt Lake County 
values.  These numbers give a clear picture of demographic differences in income and thus affordab ility within Kearns. 

36 
  
Availability of Housing Units for Targeted Income Groups 
All Households 
Available houses were determined using current market research.  According to www.realtor.com, 
Kearns has 150 properties for sale within the metro township as of 27 August 2019.  These 
properties have a median listing price of $ 284,890.  They have a median price per square foot of 
$152.  Assuming a ten percent down payment, 30-year mortgage, and a four percent interest rate, 
these sale prices equate to a monthly payment of $2,112, including taxes, insurance, and interest 
(www.zillow.com).  At this price, households at 125 percent AMI could afford this payment, given 
that utility and other costs are  below $11.00 ($2,123 - $2,112).  Households at 100 percent AMI 
or below could not afford this payment.   
On www.zillow.com, thirteen properties are listed for rent at a median price of $1,400 per month, 
with a median of three  bedrooms and two bathrooms.  At this rate, these rentals are affordable 
only to households at 100 percent AMI.  Five of the rentals are affordable at 80 percent AMI. 
Among all households in Kearns , 14 housing units are currently deed -restricted for moderate 
income households (DWS “Five Year Housing Projection Calculator”).  T he federal government’s 
LIHTC program subsidized these 14 units (DWS “Five Year Housing Projection Calculator”).  They 
are located in  St. Andrews Park II  and are available for households at 50 to 60 percent AMI 
(affordablehousingonline.com).  
Renter Households 
Whether using local or area median income, renter households face a deficit of available housing 
units.  Using AMI, the deficit totals 112 units among targeted income groups and 485 units across 
all income groups (Table 17).  The second-lowest income group, 30 to 50 percent of AMI, lacks 81 
units. The moderate-income group, 50 to 80 percent of AMI, needs 31 additional units. 
The numbers resulting from calculations using local median income  resemble those from the 
above AMI calculations (Table 18).  There is a deficit of 107 units among targeted income groups, 
and a total deficit of 575 units across all income groups.  For the 30 to 50 percent of local median 
income group, there is a deficit of 107 units.   
37 
  
Table 17: Availability and Need of Existing Rental Housing in 2017, using AMI 
Note:  See Appendix for Explanation of Utility Cost Estimate 
Data Source: ACS B25118, B25119, B25056, S2503 
 
Table 18: Availability and Need of Existing Rental Housing in 2017, using Local HH Income 
Note:  See Appendix for Explanation of Utility Cost Estimate 
Data Source: ACS B25118, B25119, B25056, S250 

38 
  
Availability of affordable housing in Kearns has decreased over time (Table 19).  In 2012, the deficit was 33 units (across targeted groups) 
compared to 112 in 2017.  However, the overall availability of housing (across all income groups) has improved during this time, from a 
deficit of 959 units to 485 units.  In terms of the number of available rental units per AMI group, the  situation improved from 2012 to 
2017 for one of the three targeted income groups .  The less than 30 percent AMI group saw  an increase in unit availability over that 
time (gain of 180 units, from -33 to 147). 
Table 19: Availability and Need of Existing Rental Housing in 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:  See Appendix for Explanation of Utility Cost Estimate 
Data Source: ACS B25118, B25119, B25056, S2503 
Projected Availability of Housing Units for Targeted Income Groups 
Housing unit availability was projected using 2012 and 2017 data.  The deficit in housing for targeted income groups was 33 in 2012 and 
112 in 2017.  Over that five-year period, this is a 239 percent increase.  In other words, there was a 48 percent increase in the housing 
deficit annually for targeted income groups.  Carrying these numbers five years into the future 6, Kearns may have a shortage of 1,732 
units for targeted income groups in 2024.  While this number seems too large, it shows what Kearns could experience if current trends 
continue.  This sparks great concern and highlights the need for Kearns to be proactive with its housing policies.   
 
6 This projection was calculated using a forty-eight percent increase each year from 2017 through 2024. 

39 
  
Chapter Six  – Action Plan 
 
The Action Plan is the most important part of the document.  It provides concrete ways to achieve 
in Kearns an environment conducive to successful moderate -income housing opportunities.  
Feedback gathered from the public at the September 28, 2019 Housing Element Open House has 
guided the action plan.  Using results from the interactive mapping activities, the public comments 
box, and the Menu Items voting exercise, planning staff has synthesized the Menu Items that the 
public decided best suit their community.  Additionally, planning staff has continued to take public 
feedback through email and the phone. 
 
The following goals and supporting strategies and actions aim to preserve, create, or otherwise 
promote moderate-income housing opportunities in Kearns Metro Township. 
 
Goal 1: Preserve current moderate-income housing. 
Menu Item Utilized: L 
  
Strategy 1:  Identify current MIH. 
 
 Strategy 2:  Establish a “Good Landlord Program.” 
  Action 1: Create and adopt “Good Landlord Program.” 
  Action 2:  Achieve code enforcement. 
 
 
Goal 2: Create more moderate-income housing options. 
Menu Items Utilized: E, F, and G 
 
Strategy 1: Allow Accessory Dwelling Units. 
  Action 1: Write and adopt an ADU Ordinance. 
• Carefully define ADUs in ordinance 
• Consider type of ADUs allowed 
• Consider where ADUs should be allowed 
  
Strategy 2: Promote creation of Accessory Dwelling Units. 
  Action 1: Identify partners that help with construction and/or conversion costs. 
  Action 2: Disseminate funding assistance information to residents. 
  Action 3: Use Map 2 (next page) to show ADU possibilities. 
  
Strategy 3: Require Developers to have moderate-income unit set-asides. 
Action 1: Decide set-aside specifications  
Action 2: Determine incentives to encourage developers to build MIH  
Action 3: Write and adopt Ordinance(s).  
40 
  
Map 2: Potential ADU Sites in Kearns

41 
  
Strategy 4: Partner with organizations and entities that build affordable housing. 
Action 1:  Explore creative solutions, such as partnering with ICȮN, a 3D house 
printing company that builds affordable housing.  
 
Strategy 5: Consider zoning changes to allow higher density housing near the popular bus 
lines (4700 South and 5400 South) as well as near employment opportunities, specifically 
near the industrial and commercial zones in central -southern, central -northern, and 
eastern-central Kearns. 
 Action 1: Identify these areas. 
Action 2: Write and adopt a new zoning Ordinance. 
 
 
Goal 3: Support measures and efforts that contribute to neighborhood stabilization. 
Menu Items Utilized: B and C 
  
Strategy 1: Identify and apply for grants and funding opportunities that do so. 
Action 1: Provide exterior curb-appeal grants to 10 homes per year through 2024 
(50 total). 
Action 2:  Support applications and funding from the Green and Healthy Homes 
Initiative to conduct critical needs home repair in low and moderate -income 
housing. 
Action 3:  Support applications and funding from the Utah Weatherization 
Assistance Program  to help low -income residents, especially the elderly and 
disabled, to reduce energy consumption through home improvements. 
Action 4:   Support applications and funding from Sa lt Lake Valley Habitat for 
Humanity to house families between 30 and 60 percent of the Area Median 
Income. 
Action 5:  Support applications and funding from Assist Utah’s Emergency Home 
Repair, Accessibility Design, and Aging in Place programs. 
 
 
Strategy 2: Identify infrastructure investments that would further facilitate MIH and the 
success of MIH families. 
Action 1:  Consider new transit routes and stops, improvements in transit 
frequency, and improvements in transit stations and stops.   
Action 2:   Use t he sidewalk inventory (forthcoming in Kearns 2020 Master 
Transportation Plan)  and connect any sidewalk gaps to promote walkability and 
enhance the destination accessibility of non-automobile owners. 
 
42 
  
Chapter Seven  – References 
 
1. ESRI Business Analyst Online 
 “Demographic and Income Profile” 
 “Detailed Age Profile” 
 “Housing Profile” 
 
2. S. Manson, J. Schroeder, D. Van Riper, & S. Ruggles. IPUMS NGHIS: V13.0 [Database]. Minneapolis: 
University of Minnesota. 2018. 
 
3. Salt Lake County  
Planning and Development Services “Residential Permits” 
Geographic Information Systems – Zoning Data and Metro Township Boundaries 
 
4. United States Census Bureau, American Community Survey 
Tables: B21100, B25056, B25118, B25119, DP1, DP2, DP3, DP4, S1810, S1901, S1903, S2101, 
S2503,  
 
5. U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development  
“2017 Income Limits Documentation System” 
“Affordable Housing Guide” 
 
6. Utah Department of Workforce Services, Housing and Community Development Division, GoogleDrive 
Database: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/15DWOQV9y-Su6as0RVGDvSicrkYrCqK1Z 
 “A Moderate-Income Housing Element Outline” 
 “DWS 5-Year Housing Projection Calculator”  
“Important Advice for Planning Moderate-Income Housing” 
“Moderate-Income Housing Writing Guide”  
“City of Meropis: Moderate-Income Housing Plan”  
“Salt Lake County: Moderate-Income Housing Plan 2017” 
“Sandy City General Plan: Section 3 Housing Needs” 
“South Salt Lake City: Moderate-Income Housing Plan” 
“State of Utah Affordable Housing Report 2018” 
“Snyderville Basin and East Summit County: Housing Affordability Assessment” 
 
7. Utah League of Cities and Towns “Housing Policy in Utah” 2018 
 
8. Utah Non-Profit Housing Corporation “https://unphc.org/housing/” 
 
9. Websites: 
 www.realtor.com 
 www.mortgagecalculator.com 
 www.zillow.com 
 www.lowincomehousing.us 
 
43 
  
Chapter Eight  – Appendix 
 
Topics 
In this chapter, planning staff have written further explanations of several topics presented in 
this plan.  Each topic has a paragraph description as well as links to more resources.  Some links 
go to online databases with multiple resources.  Resources are presented as sources of more 
information and do not necessarily represent endorsement of specific policies or programs by 
MSD planning staff. 
Affordable Housing in General  
The Utah Department of Workforce Services (DWS) has a shared GoogleDrive account with dozens 
of resources.  It holds all Moderate-Income Housing Plans within Utah that they have received.  It 
also has dozens of presentations on various topics and guides on  writing housing plans.  One 
particularly helpful document is the Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT) “Keys to Housing 
Policy in Utah.”  It includes a glossary of housing terms, several strategies to promoting affordable 
housing, and several case studies of communities throughout Utah.  Another helpful document is 
the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) guide: “Research on State and Local Means of 
Increasing Affordable Housing.”  It has strategies and case studies from across the nation.  Pros 
and cons are listed under each strategy as well as places where that strategy has been 
implemented.   
DWS General Database: 
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1WEYWuTWX9z1ppDDGLX0JdC4PupyZcGoh 
ULCT Guide: 
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1IS1MWw3UbDG03TEW_V_P5wMIuwhmqTiW 
NAHB Guide: 
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1s2wwHXXVFHSt4inlDyBPPJCf8OTojSGk 
 
Accessory Dwelling Units  
Accessory Dwelling Units are a secondary dwelling (place to live) on the same lot as a single-family 
home.  They can be attached or detached, such as a basement apartment, a tiny house, a garage 
apartment, or a mother-in-law apartment, as well as some others.   
Salt Lake County Regional Development and the Wasatch Front Regional Council put together the 
following presentation about ADUs.  It includes data from research initiatives, issues, benefits, and 
best practices. The presentation is available in PDF format at the link below. 
SLCo and WFRC presentation: http://www.ulct.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/4/2015/09/ADU-
Presentation-by-Jake-Young-and-Ted-Knowlton-ULCT-2017.pdf 
44 
  
Salt Lake Cit y has an extensive guide on how to build ADUs. While it is based on Salt Lake City 
ordinances, zoning, and rules, it includes great information on ADUs in general, especially its 
illustrations on different ways to configure a single -family house and an ADU  on a lot .  Other 
municipalities have informative ADU guides and regulations as well. 
SLC: http://www.slcdocs.com/Planning/Guides/ADU_handbook.pdf 
Cedar Hills: http://www.cedarhills.org/adu/ 
Kaysville: https://www.kaysvillecity.com/DocumentCenter/View/230/Accessory-Buildings-Guide-
PDF 
Spanish Fork: 
https://www.spanishfork.org/departments/community_development/planning/accessory_dwelli
ng_units.php 
Good Land lord Program  
Good Landlord Programs exist in many cities and towns in Utah, with each municipality adapting 
the program to its community’s specific needs.  They aim to incentivize good landlord behavior, 
good tenant behavior, and good property management and upkeep.  They are generally voluntary 
incentive programs, where rental owners who choose to participate pay significantly reduced fees.  
To participate, rental owners usually must take a course on being a good landlord, which is offered 
by the Utah Apartment Association, be current on fees, sign a contract, and properly care for 
properties. 
Centerfield: https://www.centerfieldcity.org/good-landlord-program 
North Salt Lake City: https://www.nslcity.org/DocumentCenter/View/769/Good-Landlord-
Program-Brochure-Apartments?bidId= 
Ogden: https://www.ogdencity.com/203/Good-Landlord-Program 
Salt Lake City: http://www.slcdocs.com/landlord/landlord_tenant.pdf  
West Jordan: https://www.westjordan.utah.gov/good-landlord-program 
Short -term Rentals  
Short-term rentals are places that can be rented typically between one day to nine months.  Places 
are beginning to write ordinances regarding them.  Ordinances for short- term rentals address 
issues such as whether hosts must be permanent residents and for how long a person can stay in 
a place and it be considered a short- term rental.  Short- term rentals have positiv e and negative 
externalities.  Short-term rentals can be a vital second source of income for a household.  However, 
short-term rentals with absentee landlords and poor management can turn into eyesores.  At the 
same time, short -term rentals with absentee l andlords can become overpriced vacation 
destinations that negatively impact local affordability for neighbors. 
45 
  
This article highlights twelve cities across the United States that have implemented ordinances 
regarding short-term rentals.  The article includes links to more information.   
Article: https://www.2ndaddress.com/research/short-term-rental-laws/ 
Zoning  
Zoning is not an evil word.  Zoning is the division of land into defined areas in which specific land 
uses are allowed or prohibited.  Zoning is intended to promote the health, safety, and wellbeing 
of people by guiding land use decisions so that compatibl e uses are adjacent while incompatible 
uses are separated.  For example, zoning can be used to prevent the building of highly polluting 
factories next to kindergartens or homes.   
When zoning is appropriate and community- driven, it supports the goals of th e community. 
Kearns’ zoning code comes from Salt Lake County’s code, eventually Kearns’  code needs to be 
updated to match Kearns’ wants and needs. One article below, the first link, explains the basics of 
zoning.  The second link goes to the website of the Land Use Academy of Utah (LUAU).  It has a 
short video on zoning.  The website also hosts many other videos and articles about land use and 
local government in Utah. 
Article: https://propertymetrics.com/blog/zoning-laws/ 
LUAU Website: https://luau.utah.gov/2017/05/25/league-definitions-zoning/ 
The American Planning Association (APA) defines different types of zoning.  Click on the link below 
to learn more about these types. “Base” zoning is sometimes used to refer to the regular zoning 
that most people are used to hea ring about.  “Overlay” zoning  is another type of zoning.   An 
overlay zone is a rule applied over already established zones that may cross the boundaries of 
different zones.  For example, an overlay zone may allow ADUs across R 1 -8 and R 1 -21 zones 
within 0.5 miles of bus stops.  The base zones of R 1 -8 and R 1-21 would stay the same.  There is 
an overlay zoning explanation on the APA website or on page 46 of the National Association of 
Home Builders (NAHB) guide. 
APA: https://www.planning.org/divisions/planningandlaw/propertytopics.htm 
NAHB Guide: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1s2wwHXXVFHSt4inlDyBPPJCf8OTojSGk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46 
  
Example Ordinances 
 
Good Landlord Program ordinances:  
Salt Lake City: http://www.slcdocs.com/landlord/ordinance.pdf 
Centerfield: 
https://centerfield.municipalcodeonline.com/book?type=ordinances#name=3.80_Good_Landlor
d_Program 
ADU ordinances:  
North Salt Lake City: https://www.nslcity.org/DocumentCenter/View/1992/ADU-112118?bidId= 
Cedar Hills: http://www.cedarhills.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/ordinance-07-17-2018A-
title-10-accessory-dwelling-units.pdf 
 
List of Relevant Organizations and Websites  
 
Resources are presented as sources of more information and do not necessarily represent 
endorsement of specific policies or programs by MSD planning staff. 
 
AAA Fair Credit Foundation: https://faircredit.org/about-us/ 
Affordable Housing Online: https://affordablehousingonline.com/ 
American Planning Association – National Website (APA): https://www.planning.org/ 
American Planning Association – Utah Chapter (APA Utah): https://www.apautah.org/ 
Assist Utah: https://assistutah.org/ 
Community Development Corporation of Utah (CDC Utah): https://cdcutah.org/im-a-
homeowner/home-repairs/ 
Home Rehab Referral List: https://cdcutah.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/Rehab-
Referral-List.pdf 
Congress for the New Urbanism: https://www.cnu.org/resources 
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSLMSD or MSD): https://msd.utah.gov/ 
Green and Healthy Homes Initiative: https://slco.org/green-healthy-homes/ 
47 
  
Home Energy Assistance Target (HEAT) Program: https://affordablehousingonline.com/ 
Land Use Academy of Utah (LUAU): https://luau.utah.gov/ 
National Association of Home Builders (NAHB): https://www.nahb.org/ 
Salt Lake County Regional Development – Planning and Transportation: 
https://slco.org/planning-transportation/ 
The Utah Land Use Institute: https://utahlanduse.org/land-use-library/ 
Utah Apartment Association: https://www.uaahq.org/ 
 Good Landlord Program class: https://www.uaahq.org/gll.html 
Utah Center for Neighborhood Stabilization (UTCNS): http://www.utcns.com/ 
Utah Community Action – Weatherization Program (UCA): 
https://www.utahca.org/weatherization/ 
Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT): 
https://www.udot.utah.gov/main/f?p=100:6:0::::V,T:,1 
Utah Department of Workforce Services (DWS): https://jobs.utah.gov/index.html 
 Affordable Housing page: https://jobs.utah.gov/housing/affordable/index.html 
Utah League of Cities and Towns (ULCT): http://www.ulct.org/ 
Utah Public Notice Website: https://www.utah.gov/pmn/index.html 
Utah Transit Authority (UTA): https://www.rideuta.com/ 
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC): https://wfrc.org/ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48 
  
Methods 
 
Utility Cost Estimate  Methods and Sources  
 
Housing Availabilit y and Need Calculations  
See attached PDF  for depiction of calculations using local (Kearns) values.  
Process using  AMI (Salt Lake County) values is the same but uses Salt Lake 
County values.  
 
 

1 B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U
2 Table B25118: Financial Characteristics, 2017 ACS 5-year data, Kearns Table DP04, ACS 2017 5-year Data, Kearns
3 Kearns
4 Estimate
5 9,892
6 8,102
7 101
8 22
9 156 Annual
10 186 Top Income Max Rent (30% of Income Level per month) Income Bracket # of Renter Households
11 258 30% AMHI $13,794 $345 Less than 30% AMHI ($13794) 102
12 726 50% AMHI $22,991 $575 30%-50% AMHI ($13794-$22991) 225
13 1,307 80% AMHI $36,785 $920 50%-80% AMHI ($22991-$36785) 431
14 2,198 100% AMHI $45,981 $1,150 80%-100% AMHI ($36785-$45981) 199
15 1,754 125% AMHI $57,476 $1,437 100%-125% AMHI ($45981-$57476) 201
16 1,062 >125% AMHI > $ 57476 > $ 1437 > 125% AMHI (> $57476) 633
17 332 Total Renter Households 1,790
18 1,790 <30% 30-50% 50-80% 80-100% 100-125% >125%
19 13 13
20 20 20
21 91 69 22
22 37 37
23 278 166 112
24 280 280
25 324 39 199 87
26 381 114 267
27 133 133
28 149 149
29 84 84
30
31 102 225 431 199 201 633 1,790           
32 Check Number
Must be equal
Median Estimation (Linear Interpolation) = ((M11-15000) / (19999-15000))*E22 to Total Renter
Occupied #.
If all 3 yellow
cells do not
match then 
something is wrong.
Sometimes this is more complicated since the income spread has a top end and a bottom end embedded in the Income Bracket.
When this happens, use the usual formula but subtract the previously calculated number.
minus (-)
Don't forget to check this.
J24 [which was previously calculated]
((Top Income - Lower end of Bracket))
(Top end of Bracket - Lower end of Bracket))
* # Renters 
in Bracket
((Top Income - Lower end of Bracket))
    $150,000 or more
    $20,000 to $24,999
    $25,000 to $34,999
    $35,000 to $49,999
    $50,000 to $74,999
    $75,000 to $99,999
    $100,000 to $149,999
    $150,000 or more
* # Renters 
in Bracket(Top end of Bracket - Lower end of Bracket))
    $5,000 to $9,999
    $20,000 to $24,999
    $75,000 to $99,999
    $100,000 to $149,999
This is for Renters only. Owner Occupied is different.
63,508
  Owner occupied:
    $5,000 to $9,999
  Renter occupied:
    Less than $5,000
Sum of Columns:
Kearns
Estimate
  Renter occupied (dollars) 45,981
    $10,000 to $14,999
    $15,000 to $19,999
Total: Median household income in the past 12 
      Total: 59,543
    Less than $5,000   Owner occupied (dollars)
    $50,000 to $74,999
    $35,000 to $49,999
    $25,000 to $34,999
    $15,000 to $19,999
    $10,000 to $14,999
Calculate the income 
brackets for a rental gap 
analysis by multiplying the 
median renter household 
income by the percentage 
thresholds used to define 
the brackets (30%, 50%, 
Calculate the maximum 
affordable rent for each 
given income bracket. 
Remember that cheaper 
rents are always 
affordable to higher 
earning households-- Use the table on the far left to estimate the number of renter 
households in each income bracket of the renter gap analysis, as 
I've typed in a more formatted way above. This is done by linear 
interpolation. 
Example: 
Less than 30% = all households earning $13,794 or less per year. 
Referencing the table on the far left, this would include households in 
cells E19, E20, and a portion of those in E21. How many of those in E21 
count here? Interpolate! The equation is:
((13,794-10,000)/(14,999-10,000))*E21 = 69. So our # households in 
the < 30% bracket is 13+20+69 = 102.
YOUR CHECK here is the sum, shown in cell T17. If this doesn't match 
the total shown in cell E18 and M31 (or is within about 1 due to 
Update data for your 
geography and time period.

1 B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S
2
3 Kearns
4 Estimate
5 Total: 1,790 Maximum Rent # Rental Units
6   With cash rent: 1,570 $345 $575 $920 $1,150 $1,437 > $ 1437 30% AMHI $345 232
7   Less than $300 6 226             50% AMHI $575 118
8   $300 to $499 28 6                  22             80% AMHI $920 504
9   $500 to $799 383 96             287             100% AMHI $1,150 358
10   $800 to $999 360 217             143               125% AMHI $1,437 412
11   $1,000 to $1,499 717 216               412              89                >125% AMHI > $ 1437 165
12   $1,500 to $1,999 76 76                Total Rental Units 1,790
13   $2,000 to $2,499 0 -               
14   $2,500 to $2,999 0 -               
15   $3,000 or more 0 -               
16   No cash rent 220
17             232           118             504              358             412             165 
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
1,790
2017 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates Kearns
Max Rent
Calculate the number of rental housing units available in each range. 
Notes:
1. The "No cash rent" row (row 16) is included in the lowestmaximum rent group. 
2. Check the sum presented in cell N12. This must match (or be within 1 due to rounding 
error) the total provided in cell C5 and L31.
3. The number of units in each income/rent bracket is interpolated in exactly the same 
manner as we interpolated number of households in each income bracket. Maximum rent 
of $345 is the sum of all lower rents (cells C7 and C16) plus the portion of cell B8 that 
would go up to $345, which is (($345-$300)/($499-$300))*28=6. So the number of units 
available at $345 or less is =sum(C7, C16, and  F8) = 232.
Update data for your 
geography and time period.
Income Range
Maximum 
Affordable
Monthly Rent
# Households
# Rental Units 
Available
at that Price
Surplus/Deficit 
of Units 
Available
Less than 30% AMHI ($13794) $345 102 232 130
30%-50% AMHI ($13794-$22991) $575 225 118 -107 Reading Order: start from the bottom
50%-80% AMHI ($22991-$36785) $920 431 504 73
80%-100% AMHI ($36785-$45981) $1,150 199 358 160
100%-125% AMHI ($45981-$57476) $1,437 201 412 212
> 125% AMHI (> $57476) > $ 1437 633 165 -468
Data source: US Census Bureau (Tables: DP04 and B25118 and B25056) ACS 2017 5-year data
Fiercest Market (the GAP)
Kearns Metro Township: Rental Affordability Gap Analysis, 2017
NOTE: You always read the last column of this table from bottom to top. Wealthier households 
tend to rent below their maximum affordable rent, increasing market pressure in lower rent 
brackets. In this example, for instance, we would assume that the 468 households not 
accommodated by the highest rent units would rent in the next highest rent bracket, forcing 
those households to rent in the 80%-100% rent bracket, and so forth. In other words, wealthier 
households get "first dibs" on the rental market, and tend to rent at lower costs than their 
maximum affordable costs, so we assume that demand pushes pressure down market. In this 
particular example, we can see that the steepest competition for units is likely to occur in the 
30%-50% rent bracket, because lower income households will seek the lowest rents possible and 
the deficit of units for the wealthiest households will eat up many units in the 50%-100% brackets.
Interpret the data and the GAP.
March 28, 2019
KEARNS TOWN CENTER MASTER PLAN

i
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
T able of Contents
Executive Summary
Introduction     1
 Background Se/t_ting & Purpose   1
 Overview of Planning Process   1
 Planning Vision Statement   3
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications 5
 History of the Area    5
 Demographics    5
 T ransportation    7
  Pedestrian Network   7
   Assets    8
   Challenges   9
   Opportunities   9
  Bicycle Network    10
   Assets    11
   Challenges   12
   Opportunities   12
  T ransit Network    12
   Assets    13
   Challenges   14
   Opportunities   14
  Vehicle Network    15
   Assets    16
   Challenges   16
   Opportunities   16
  Overall Streets    17
   Assets    17
   Challenges   17
   Opportunities   17
  Land Use     18
   Current Zoning   18
   Current Land Use   18
Kearns T own Center Master Plan   19
 Introduction     19
 Uses     19
 Retail Market Feasibility   20
 T own Center Options    23
 Recommended T own Center   25
Design Implementation Guidelines   26
 Introduction     26
 Uses     26
 Circulation     26
 Designed for People (not cars)   26
 Intensity of  Use    26
 8 Components for Vibrancy   27
  /T_he Retail Area is Managed   27
  /T_he Area is “Retail Appropriate”  27
  /T_he Area is “Mixed”   28
  /T_he Area Feels Safe   28
  /T_he Area is Championed   28
  /T_he Area is Anchored   28
  /T_he Area is Walkable   28
  /T_he Area is Uni/f_ied    28
 Architecture & Built Form Guidelines  29
  Building Permeability   29
  Materials     29
  Orientation    29
  Screening    30
  Signage     30
  Sustainability    30
 Implementation    30
  Regulatory Structure   30
  Public/Private Partnerships   30
  T ransportation & Connectivity  30
  Governance    30

iii
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
T able of Figures
Figure 1 - Word Map of Suggested Community Activities 2
Figure 2 -2025 Housing Demand 6
Figure 3 - Pedestrian Access 7
Figure 4 - T own Center and Pedestrian Network 8
Figure 5 - Bicycle Infrastructure & Conditions 11
Figure 6 - T ransit Network 13
Figure 7 - Existing Vehicle Capacity 15
Figure 8 - Planning Area Map 18
Figure 9 - T own Center Concept 1 23
Figure 10 - T own Center Concept 2 24
Figure 11 - Recommended T own Center Concept 25
Figure 12 - Architects Rendering Kearns Library 29

v
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
T able of T ables
T able 1 - Kearns + SL Co. Demographics 6
T able 2 -Kearns T own Center Regular Retail Market Indicators 19
T able 3 - Kearns T own Center Preliminary Market Evaluation 20
T able 4 - Kearns T own Center  NG&S Market Suitability Measures 20
T able 5 - Kearns T own Center F&B Market Suitability Measures 21
T able 6 - Kearns T own Center GAFO Market Suitability Measures 22
T able 7 - Current and Redeveloped Uses 27

vii
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Achieving the Kearns Community goal of restoring the T own Center area’s role 
as the commercial and community center of Kearns will occur by improving the 
pedestrian environment, increasing connectivity through the area, and creating 
new opportunities to live and work in the T own Center. Public investment in the 
infrastructure and amenities to complement the investment in the new Kearns Library 
and UCA Community Center will improve the T own Center’s ability to a/t_tract new, 
private investment.
A preferred T own Center Concept was identi/f_ied through a public planning process. 
Figure EX-1 represents the vision for redevelopment of the area. Key concepts in the 
redevelopment include:
 
 
•  Increased connectivity through the current commercial properties to encourage 
walking and biking.
 
•  Investment in a purpose-built UPD Substation.
 •  Investment in a transit hub/plaza.
 •  Development of a community plaza for community activities and as a daily amenity.
 •  Creation of multi-use streets that allow for outdoor dining and closure for 
major community events.
 
•  Concentration of transit routes and amenities at the transit hub/plaza including 
a new Kearns Circulator route.
 
•  Opportunities for the development of multi-family housing.
 •  Opportunities for the development of oﬃce and other employment types.
Implementation of the redevelopment concept is a 
multi-year undertaking.  Initial steps include revision 
of the zoning codes governing development of the 
area to accommodate the preferred uses identi/f_ied 
by the community and to create a Kearns T own 
Center Overlay district to address the urban design 
and streetscape elements that are critical for future 
success of the area.
Another critical element to future success is the 
identi/f_ication of a governing body to oversee 
programming of the plazas and public spaces 
in the T own Center as well as ensure ongoing 
maintenance and operations of the mixed-use area. 
Local retailers and property owners should consider 
coordinated marketing and recruitment as part of the 
responsibilities of the T own Center governing body.
Executive Summary


1
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
BACKGROUND SETTING AND PURPOSE
/T_he Kearns T own Center Plan focuses on the area 
west of the intersection of 4015 West 5400 South.  
/T_his area was the commercial center of Kearns for 
several decades.  Over time, investment in the area 
has declined and commercial performance dropped.  
During the same time period, the eastern half of the 
four-way commercial intersection was incorporated 
into neighboring T aylorsville City, further eroding the 
tax bene/f_it Kearns T ownship received from the area to 
support services and additional public investment.
/T_he focus of the planning process was twofold – to 
enhance the areas’ commercial performance and to 
create additional community amenities in the area to 
support community activities and identity.
OVERVIEW OF PLANNING PROCESS
/T_he Kearns T own Center Plan began as part of 
the Healthy Kearns initiative.  In 2015 Mayor Ben 
McAdams kicked oﬀ the Kearns Place-Based Initiative 
known as “/T_he Future We Choose” to bring together 
all of the community, governmental, and non-pro/f_it 
groups working in the Kearns area. /T_he Initiative was 
intended to give Kearns residents a voice in the design 
and delivery of services in their community. /T_he vision 
and purpose of the Initiative was developed through 
the creation and collaboration of several commi/t_tees. 
Each commi/t_tee included community members, 
government oﬃcials, business leaders and non-pro/f_it 
organizations.  /T_here was a steering commi/t_tee to 
guide the overall direction of the initiative and three 
subcommi/t_tees. Each of the subcommi/t_tees developed 
a mission statement with accompanying goals and 
objectives. /T_he callout box on Page one provides 
the mission, goals and objectives for each of the 
subcommi/t_tees. /T_his Plan was initiated as part of the 
Healthy Communities Subcommi/t_tee’s priorities.
Introduction
INTRODUCTION
THE FUTURE WE CHOOSE SUBCOMMITTEE MISSION STATEMENTS
/T_he Expanding Opportunities subcommi/t_tee is working 
to achieve the following outcomes: 
 • Kearns families are self-suﬃcient.
 •  Kearns children are ready for and succeed in school, 
ultimately leading to high school graduation.
 •  /T_he education outcome will be prioritized through 
Evidence2Success framework.
/T_he mission statement of the Expanding Opportunities 
subcommi/t_tee is: 
We want all Kearns residents to have the education and 
skills needed to live productive and self-suﬃcient lives. 
We will use our collective expertise and resources to 
plan evidence-based education, training,and support 
programs that help kids reach critical milestones on the 
path to adulthood.
/T_he Healthy People Subcommi/t_tee is working to achieve 
the following outcomes:  
 •  Create enhanced awareness of the bene/f_its of living 
a healthy lifestyle among Kearns residents.  
 •  Kearns residents have the ability, knowledge and 
desire to consume healthful diets, achieve and 
maintain healthy body weights.  
 •  Kearns residents have the ability, con/f_idence, and 
desire to be physically active for life.  
 •  Kearns residents have access to comprehensive, 
quality healthcare services.  
 •  Increase access to /f_inancial resources, knowledge 
and skills.
/T_he mission statement of the Healthy People 
Subcommi/t_tee is:
We want all Kearns residents to be physically and 
mentally healthy. We will use our collective expertise 
and resources to improve delivery of health information 
and services; create new spaces and facilities that 
support health, nutrition and wellness programs; 
improve access to healthy food and beverage options 
that also support our diverse cultural traditions; and 
provide opportunities for physical activity.
/T_he Healthy Places Subcommi/t_tee is working to achieve 
the following outcomes:  
 •  Residents and visitors can move safely and 
eﬀectively around the community.  
 •  Kearns community has a variety of gathering places. 
 •  Kearns residents have opportunities to update 
homes.  
 •  Kearns residents have increased access to jobs in 
the Kearns T ownship. 
/T_he mission statement of the Healthy Places 
Subcommi/t_tee is:
We are commi/t_ted to ensuring that Kearns a/t_tracts and 
supports a healthy mix of residents and businesses, 
and is welcoming and safe for those who live, work, 
learn, and play here. We will use our collective expertise 
and resources to create an economic development 
plan that includes mixed income housing and mixed-
use developments; ensures access to health and 
wellness opportunities; integrates community assets 
with surrounding neighborhoods; and is driven by 
community priorities.
2
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Figure 1: Word Map of Suggested Community Activities
/T_he impetus for the Kearns T own Center planning process was the imminent investment 
in a new Kearns Library within the planning area. In addition to the Kearns Library, several 
other community partners indicated a desire and opportunity to invest in the area. /T_hese 
partners include the Salt Lake Community Action Program (CAP), the Uni/f_ied Police 
Department, the University of Utah (through CAP), and the new T ownship leadership. 
/T_he spaces represented in the plan re/f_lect the identi/f_ied needs of these partners combined 
with the desires and goals of the community. 
In response to the goals and objectives of the Healthy Places Subcommi/t_tee, the T own 
Center planning process was kicked oﬀ in August 2016.  /T_he Subcommi/t_tee acted as 
the Steering Commi/t_tee for the planning process and convened two public open house 
meetings to generate input from the community. /T_his process focused on the vision 
and goals for the new Kearns T own Center as well as the changes in connectivity and 
development type desired by Kearns residents. Appendix A provides the materials from 
each of the meetings held in 2016 and 2017.
In addition to Healthy Places Subcommi/t_tee meetings and open houses, the community 
provided input through a survey that was administered online and in person at 
community events.  Community members provided 150 survey responses to questions 
concerning what uses they would like to see included in the T own Center as well as 
identifying important design characteristics.  Figure 1 provides a “word map” of the types 
of activities community members would participate in if oﬀered at the T own Center.
Introduction
3
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Introduction
Appendix B provides the details of the results of the 2017 community survey.  
/T_he T own Center Planning project was put on hold at the end of 2017 as a result of 
legislation that created the Kearns Metro T ownship as well as changes in community 
government. Mayor Kelly Bush re-started the planning process in mid-2018.  A “Re-
Kick-oﬀ ” open house was held in August 2018. /T_he original Plan Vision Statement, 
preferred land uses and development type were reviewed and con/f_irmed during the 
meeting.  Appendix C includes the presentation, materials and community input 
from the August 2018 meeting.
A project website was launched to re-energize the planning process.  /T_he website 
included materials from the re-kick oﬀ meeting and provided an opportunity for 
community members unable to a/t_tend the meeting to provide feedback on the 
concepts and vision developed in 2016/2017.   Appendix D provides the results of 
the 2018 community survey and open house input.
On October 23, 2018 the dra/f_t illustrative vision plan concept was presented in a 
community meeting at the Olympic Oval.  Appendix E includes the materials from 
the October 2018 meeting.
PLANNING VISION STATEMENT
/T_he following vision statement was dra/f_ted, reviewed and /f_inalized based on input 
from the Healthy Kearns Subcommi/t_tee, community members in a/t_tendance at each 
of the open houses, the community survey and through on-line input on the project 
website.
The elements of this Vision Statement guided the planning process and 
identification of the preferred alternative illustrative plan.

5
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
HISTORY OF THE AREA
Kearns is a Metro T ownship within Salt Lake County with a long history of agriculture 
and military activity. Originally inhabited by Fremont and Ute people, the Kearns 
area provided hunting and gathering grounds for early native inhabitants. By 1848, 
the /f_irst early Mormon se/t_tlers, Joseph and Susanna Harker, se/t_tled in the area and 
established small farms and pastures along the Jordan River and were soon followed 
by others seeking agricultural prospects. 
Kearns remained primarily agricultural land until America entered World War II 
a/f_ter the a/t_tack on Pearl Harbor. /T_he Kearns area appealed as a large training base 
due to its defensible inland location that was easily accessible by plane and railroad 
from three other major western ports of Sea/t_tle, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. By 
1942, the base grew with the capacity to support 30,000 to 70,000 people making it 
Utah’s third largest city.
By the end of the war, the War Assets Administration declared Kearns Air Base 
as surplus and ordered its return to farmland. /T_his was strongly opposed by the 
community who depended on the area for economic security and by 1948, the land 
was opened to a public bidding process that included preexisting housing, streets, 
and utilities. Following WWII, Kearns became a booming postwar community with 
steady population growth to an estimated population of 37,450 today. 
/T_he area surrounding the 5400 South 4015 West intersection historically acted as 
the primary commercial center within Kearns and consisted of various grocery stores 
and large retailers. In 1996 T aylorsville incorporated the commercial area to the east 
of the intersection during its process of becoming an oﬃcial city. /T_he political process 
to designate Kearns as a township began in about 2010. T ownship designation gave 
residents more control over zoning and planning issues within the community. 
Kearns held its /f_irst election in 2016 to elect the /f_irst city council members in each of 
the /f_ive districts within the T ownship. 
Much of the commercial development surrounding the 5400 South 4015 West 
intersection is currently underutilized or vacant, and large undeveloped spaces. /T_his 
appears primarily in the form of parking lots, occupy a majority of the potentially 
developable land in the area and make navigating the area by foot or bike diﬃcult.
DEMOGRAPHICS
/T_he 2010 Census population of Kearns T ownship was 35,731. By 2017 the population 
was estimated to have increased by almost 1,500 people, as seen in T able 1. Kearns 
is one of the most diverse communities in Utah with approximately 29 percent of 
the population identifying as a race or combination of races other than white. By 
contrast, approximately 13 percent of Utah’s total population identify as some race 
or combination of races other than white.
1 Kearns’ 2017 estimated population is 
approximately 33 percent Hispanic. /T_his is unchanged from the 2010 Census. /T_he 
Utah 2017 estimated population is approximately 14 percent Hispanic, down slightly 
from the 2010 Census. Family sizes in Kearns are also consistently larger than in Salt 
Lake County as a whole. 
EXISTING CONDITIONS, ANALYSIS & IMPLICATIONS
1 /T_he 2015 data on race for both Kearns and Salt Lake County has relatively large margins of error. For example, if the Kearns 2015 non-white population is at the high end of the margin, the percent of total 
population nonwhite in 2015 would be 1,384 people higher and closer to 20 percent of the total population.
6
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
TABLE 1: KEARNS AND SALT LAKE COUNTY DEMOGRAPHICS
KEARNS SALT LAKE COUNTY
2010 2017 MOE (+/-) % CHANGE 2010 2017 MOE (+/-) % CHANGE
Population 35,731 37,194 1,137 4% 1,029,655 1,106,700 ***** 7%
Households 9,780 9,892 311 1% 342,622 363,058 1,209 6%
Average Persons/Household 3.7 3.8 3% 3.0 30 1%
Non-White population 10,615 10,882 1,463 3% 193,581 219,696 3,089 13%
% Total Population 30% 29% 19% 20%
Hispanic Population 11,729 12,222 1,178 4% 176,015 198,222 ***** 13%
% Total Population 33% 323%  17% 18%  
Source: 2010 Census; 2017 ACS 5-Year Estimates, MOE=Margin of Error; *** MOE not calculated by Census
Kearns’ diversity is important to its identity as 
a community. /T_he area has welcomed refugees 
and new arrivals from around the world and 
is recognized as a great place to start and 
raise a family. Kearns’ household sizes re/f_lect 
this important part of the community. /T_he 
population of Kearns is projected to grow by 
approximately 500 persons and almost 300 
households by 2025. GSBS used a balanced 
housing model to estimate the price point 
of new housing units needed in Kearns by 
2025. According to the balanced housing 
model by 2025 new housing units aﬀordable 
to households making less than $15,000, 
between $15,000 and $35,000, and over 
$75,000 annually will be needed as seen in 
/f_igure 2.
Figure 2: Housing Availability by Income
7
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
TRANSPORTATION
/T_he transportation and streets analysis considers the existing networks for the 
four key transportation modes in Kearns – walking, bicycling, riding transit and 
driving – especially in regard to accessing the town center area. In addition, the 
analysis considers how the modes coexist within the existing street network and 
other transportation facilities of the study area.
/T_he analysis focuses on Kearns but because the town center location is at the 
eastern edge of Kearns T ownship, the adjoining area of T aylorsville is also 
considered. /T_he plan identi/f_ies assets and challenges for each mode. Based on 
these assets and challenges, the analysis proposes opportunities for improving 
each mode within the context of the T own Center Plan.
Pedestrian Network
/T_he pedestrian network is the most important network to the T own Center. Good 
pedestrian conditions will reinforce a comfortable human scale and positive 
identity for the area, enable safe access for community members, and support the 
T own Center as a transit hub. 
/T_he pedestrian network, seen in Figure 3,  consists primarily of sidewalks along 
streets, crossings of roadways, and path networks through parks, schools, and 
other larger public land uses. Some oﬀ-street and semi-oﬀ-street paths and linear 
parkways exist – the most relevant of these is the new linear park along 5400 South 
west of the planned T own Center.
Figure 3: Pedestrian Access
Pedestrian Infrastructure
Figure 3: Pedestrian Access
8
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
Figure 4: Town Center-area Pedestrian Network
Pedestrian network assets
/T_here is good pedestrian access to the T own Center via the sidewalks on 
neighborhood streets which form a relatively connected network (see Figure 4.) 
Most of the area to the northwest and southwest within a mile of the T own Center 
location is accessible for pedestrians (see Figure 3.)
/T_here is also good pedestrian infrastructure around the schools. Oquirrh 
Hills Elementary School and Kearns Junior High School, as well as South 
Kearns Elementary School and St. Francis Xavier School, are within 
close proximity to the T own Center location. Because of the presence 
of these schools, some high-visibility crosswalks have been striped on 
the major and minor street crossings in the area. (See Figures 3 and 4).  
/T_he signal and crosswalk at 4220 West are a major asset for ge/t_ting across 5400 
South. /T_he corridor along 4220 West and parallel streets are important for 
neighborhood pedestrian access to the T own Center. 
Despite the traﬃc, 5400 South does contain some pedestrian assets. /T_he new linear 
park provides a walking environment that is relatively well-buﬀered from traﬃc 
on 5400 South and is the beginning of a key connection between Kearns High/
Oquirrh Athletic Campus and the T own Center. For a street like this, the sidewalks 
plus buﬀer area should be at least 15 to 16 feet. However, the 10-foot width is more 
than on many similar corridor areas.
9
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
Pedestrian network challenges
Gaps & Barriers
/T_here are gaps and barriers in the pedestrian network. Gaps are the spaces between 
parallel structures in the pedestrian network, while barriers are inhibitors to 
movement throughout an area. /T_he top 5 gaps in the network average approximately 
2,200 feet, over four times what the maximum gap should be for this type of area 
(500 feet). While in general, the street network connects the surrounding area well 
to the T own Center within ½-mile and 1-mile distances, the exception is to the 
northeast, where properties along Southridge Park and Bangerter Highway form a 
major barrier for those accessing the T own Center area on foot (See Figure 3).
/T_he largest of the gaps are:
•  5400 South, which presents the most relevant barrier – there is nearly ¼ mile 
between crossings on the street adjacent to the T own Center.
 •  On north-south links where the combination of large commercial blocks 
and the lack of a pedestrian facility on Bangerter Highway create a gap in the 
network.
 
•  On east-west links where the inability to cross Bangerter Highway creates a 
major gap in the network.
 
•  On east-west links where the lack of a marked crossing on 4000 West south of 
5400 South creates a gap in the network.
 
•  On north-south links where the combination of property backing onto 
Southridge Park, a fenced cul-de-sac, and the Bangerter Highway, create a gap 
in the network.
Pedestrian Environment
/T_here is a poor pedestrian environment along major streets. /T_his is especially true 
for 5400 South, along which there are no pedestrian amenities (seating options, 
coverage from elements), greenery, shade, or buﬀer from traﬃc. /T_he 10-foot 
sidewalks along 5400 South narrow close to the 5400 S. / 4015 W. intersection.
Safety
5400 South creates pedestrian safety issues. In an analysis of crash data from 2014 
to 2016, there were 11 pedestrian-related crashes in the greater T own Center area. 
Seven of these were along 5400 South.
/T_he relatively good connectivity of the pedestrian network breaks down closer to 
the commercial areas. /T_he streets have several sidewalk gaps in the areas on both 
sides of 5400 South (See Figure 4.) /T_hese gaps are largely due to very long curb cuts 
along parking or other vehicle circulation areas. Also, in contrast to the relatively 
small blocks of the neighborhood, the T own Center area is comprised of very large 
blocks, which present barriers to pedestrians. /T_his is an especially large challenge to 
neighborhood school access; the T own Center sits in the middle of several schools 
and the School Neighborhood Access Plan (SNAP) routes that connect them for 
walking children.
Pedestrian network opportunities
Improve the pedestrian environment along 5400 South. Extend the path along 5400 
South and across 5400 South to the T own Center. /T_here is room within the 
pedestrian realm to add amenities. Also, look for opportunities to widen the 5400 
South sidewalk; these could include using some of the T own Center property if 
it fronts onto 5400 South. Added elements should include street trees, landscape, 
street furniture, lighting and pedestrian-oriented building frontages and yards.
Improve pedestrian crossings of 5400 South. /T_he existing crossing of 5400 South at 
4220 West to become a gateway to Kearns and the T own Center with the addition of  
landscaping, way/f_inding and traﬃc calming. Intermi/t_tent marked crossings on 4015 
West south of 5400 South can also be built. Consider a grade-separated crossing, 
although surface crossings could be greatly improved for functionality.
Consolidate driveways to reduce pedestrian-motorist con/f_licts. /T_he T own Center 
project can reduce the number of driveway accesses along major streets such as 
5400 South and 4015 West, improving the pedestrian environment.
10
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Improve the pedestrian environment on other major streets. Many streets have 9 to 10-
foot sidewalks but no landscaped park strip or street trees – there is opportunity to 
add these elements to these stretches of sidewalk.
Create a denser, more connected street and pedestrian network within the T own Center. 
Divide area blocks using new, smaller cross-section roadways and pedestrian-only 
paths through bigger blocks. Use the T own Center design to create more 4-way 
intersections in order to provide more direct and legible pedestrian routes.
Create an active T own Center pedestrian realm by carefully planning the relationships 
between buildings and streets/pathways. /T_he vitality of the T own Center will be 
determined by how buildings and their entries interact with the area’s streets and 
pathways. Creating walkable streets and human-scale public spaces that carefully 
integrate all modes and connect with building entries will lead to lively, welcoming 
areas of activity in the T own Center. 
Emphasize safe routes to school through the T own Center. /T_he T own Center will likely 
be useful for children and families walking (and biking) to school. Routes should 
emphasize access to the many nearby schools.
Reinforce neighborhood pedestrian network. Fill sidewalk gaps within the neighborhood 
surrounding the T own Center.
Connect to the northeast via Southridge Park, Bangerter Highway, and Utah and Salt Lake 
Canal. Both Bangerter Highway and the neighborhoods on either side of it present a 
major barrier to the T own Center from the east. Making some key connections would 
create a link across this barrier, including connecting Southridge Drive cul-de-sac to 
Southridge Park and extending a pedestrian path through the park to the southwest 
corner of the park (4000 West). Alternatively, this might include or be located in the 
southwest corner of the park and along Bangerter Highway to 5400 South. Look for 
opportunities for a grade-separated crossing on Bangerter Highway. A crossing near 
Southridge Park may provide the most access, but the Utah and Salt Lake Canal would 
provide a link along a regionally designated active transportation corridor.
Break up non-T own Center commercial blocks in the area. Look for opportunities to 
build north-south pedestrian links through commercial property north/south of 
5400 South just west of Bangerter Highway.
Bicycle network
Like the pedestrian network, the bicycle network creates the ability for Kearns (and 
adjacent community) residents to access the Kearns T own center without a car. /T_his 
is especially important for youth. 
/T_he existing bicycle network is mostly informal as seen in Figure 5. While some 
dedicated bike facilities exist, such as the buﬀered bike lane on Cougar Lane, cyclists 
can use the connectivity of the local street network to access the T own Center 
using quiet neighborhood streets and shoulders on some collector streets. /T_he 
major barriers are the large east-west streets such as 5400 South. However, there are 
several planned new bicycle facilities in Kearns, including several that provide direct 
connections to the T own Center area.
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
11
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Figure 5: Bicycle Infrastructure and Conditions
Bicycle Assets
Bike-compatible local and minor collector streets lead to the T own Center, especially 
from the north and south. North-south collector streets such as 4220 West, 4000 
West, and Cougar Lane are relatively compatible for bicyclists, according to the 
Bicycle Compatibility Index analysis 
2 (See Figure 5).
 
A planned network of bike facilities converges on the T own Center. Bikeways are 
planned for the 4220 West / 4185 West and 5215 South corridors, which will provide 
direct access to the T own Center. Facilities are also planned for other local streets as 
well as major east west streets such as 4700 South and 6200 South (See Figure 5.)  
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
2 /T_he Bicycle Compatibility Index (BCI) is a methodology developed by the Federal Highway Administration to evaluate the capability of urban and suburban roadway sections to accommodate both motorists and 
bicyclists. /T_he BCA methodology allows the evaluation of existing facilities and provides tools to determine possible improvements for new and existing facilities.

12
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
/T_he linear park trail provides the beginnings of a 5400 South bikeway. Combined 
with Cougar Lane and a potential rail tracks crossing, it could create an eﬀective bike 
connection between Kearns High School / Oquirrh Athletic Campus and the town 
center area. 
Planned and existing regional bikeways are nearby. /T_he Utah and Salt Lake Canal is 
within less than a mile from the T own Center. /T_he canal runs northwest/southeast, 
provides connections to other points throughout the west side of the county, and has 
an unpaved trail along some of its length.
Bicycle Challenges
/T_here is li/t_tle existing formal bike infrastructure in place. Despite the plans, few bike 
facilities exist currently in the town center area.
East-west major streets are a barrier to cyclists and are not compatible with cycling. 
While north-south streets provide good bicycle access to the T own Center, cyclists 
must cross the forbidding east-west streets, especially 5400 South, which presents 
the most relevant barrier to the T own Center area and rates as an “F” on the Bicycle 
Compatibility Index  (See Figure 5).
Bangerter Highway is a major barrier to bicycle access from the east. Bangerter 
Highway presents the largest barrier to T own Center active transportation access 
because of its size and the wide spacing of its crossings, which are generally about 
a mile apart and on busy arterial streets. Bangerter Highway also creates barriers to 
north-south bicycle travel because of the general disconnection of streets around it. 
/T_he rail tracks create problems for the bicycling network. /T_he area west of the rail 
tracks is within easy bicycling distance of the T own Center area, but the rail tracks 
present a barrier. /T_he intersection of 5400 South, Cougar Lane, Northwest Avenue, 
and the rail tracks and bridge create a challenge for bicycling (and other modes), 
especially with respect to extending the Cougar Lane bikeway northward and 
extending the 5400 South linear park pathway westward.
Most of the major gaps in the pedestrian network identi/f_ied in the Pedestrian section, 
which largely exist west of the T own Center, also apply to bicycling.
Bicycle Opportunities
Create a bike corridor between Oquirrh Athletic Campus and the T own Center. Link  the 
buﬀered bike lane and 5400 South park trails to each other and to the T own Center. 
Look for opportunities for a crossing of the rail barrier south of 5400 South.
Implement planned routes. Improve 4220 West/Misty Way as a bike route for direct 
T own Center access.
Create safe bike crossings at 5400 South, especially at 4220 West. Similar to the 
pedestrian network, the crossings of 5400 South need to be safer for cyclists, and 
the signalized crossing at 4220 West can be leveraged to create more visibility, and a 
more comfortable, safer crossing. 
Break down the large bicycling barriers to the east of the T own Center. Look for 
opportunities for a grade-separated crossing across Bangerter, likely in the Southridge 
Park area. Look for opportunities to build a bicycle facility on Bangerter Highway, 
behind a barrier (could be combined bike/pedestrian). Look for opportunities to 
build north-south bicycle links through commercial property north/south of 5400 
South just west of Bangerter Highway. Connect the T own Center to the Utah and 
Salt Lake Canal corridor via 4000 West or Southridge Park/Bangerter, which could 
provide a realistic connection over Bangerter.
Carefully bring together bicycle routes in the T own Center. Create good bicycle access to 
transit stops and/or hub. Include plentiful bicycle parking, long-term and short term, 
at the T own Center.
Transit Network
/T_he transit network can serve the T own Center in a number of diﬀerent ways. /T_he 
T own Center can be the Kearns community’s transit hub, as a place where regional 
bus routes (such as the 54, the 240, the 62, and the 248) converge and riders can 
walk, bike, or transfer to a circulator route to access their homes or other destinations. 
Currently, there is no central point in Kearns that oﬀers high frequency service 
both to regional destinations (such as downtown Salt Lake, Salt Lake International 
Airport, and Murray Central Station) and to the rest of the Kearns community. 
Creating a small transit hub here could provide a major service to Kearns residents in 
a convenient location and help activate the T own Center.
13
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
Figure 6 identi/f_ies the existing transit network of UTA routes (15 and 30-minute 
frequency and /f_lex) and stops. It also includes planned routes like commuter routes 
such as the 348 and 356. In addition, a few higher capacity routes are planned to 
come through Kearns such as enhanced bus on 4700 South and 6200 South and bus 
rapid transit (BRT) on 5600 West.
Transit Assets
Bus routes to regional destinations provide access to the T own Center. /T_he 54, a high 
frequency (15 minute) route runs on 5400 South; and the 240, a 30-minute route, 
runs along edge of the T own Center (See Figure 6). Enhanced bus service routes are 
planned for 4700 South and 6200 South; Bus rapid transit is planned for 5600 West 
(See Figure 6).
Figure 6: Transit Network
14
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
/T_he local street grid provides relatively good bicycle and pedestrian transit access 
to the north and south of the T own Center. /T_he local streets north and south of the 
T own Center area are relatively well-connected and provide the basis of good active 
transportation access to the town center area and transit stops on 5400 South and 
4000 West. See Pedestrian and Bicycle network analysis for more information.
Transit Challenges
/T_here is no direct transit access from the T own Center to other existing and planned 
centers in Kearns. /T_he routes that serve the T own Center (54 and 240) do not link 
riders with other existing and planned centers such as the Oquirrh Athletic Campus 
and the Camp Kearns area.
Bus stops are not located well for pedestrian access and lack amenities. Many bus 
stops on 5400 South are not located near pedestrian crossings. Bus stops do not 
provide any rider amenities or presence on the street.
Existing transit routes do not provide synergy or convenience. In the T own Center 
area, transfers are generally only between two routes and do not occur at key locations 
or centers.
Planned high capacity transit would not serve the T own Center location. /T_he planned 
enhanced bus routes along 4700 South and 6200 South are each about a mile away 
from the T own Center area and the planned bus rapid transit (BRT) route is about 
two miles away.
/T_he T own Center area has some pedestrian and bicycle transit access challenges. See 
Pedestrian and Bicycle networks’ discussions of street crossings and connectivity.
Transit Opportunities
Create a small community transit hub. /T_he potential exists for a small transit/
transportation hub at the T own Center where existing (54 and 240) and planned 
routes (planned 348, enhanced bus or BRT , potential circulator) meet in a pedestrian-
accessible location. A transit hub could provide a number of bene/f_its:
 
•  Create more convenient transit trips with easy transfers and trip-chaining with 
the hub’s proximity to T own Center amenities.
 • Create a park-and-ride option for the surrounding community.
 •  Encourage more transit use with direct access of transit to community 
amenities in the T own Center.
 
• Create safer, more comfortable transit waiting environments.
 • Develop demand / critical mass for higher-capacity transit.
/T_he hub could include:
 • Bus bays
 • Waiting area amenities (seating, shelter, information)
 • Park-and-ride lot
 • Long-term bike parking
 • Close connection to public space and T own Center amenities
 • Carpool / vanpool / TNC pickup-drop oﬀ spaces
Circulator connecting key Kearns destinations.  A looping circulator shu/t_tle could 
connect the three main existing and planned centers in Kearns and other destinations 
such as grocery stores and parks with much of the Kearns community. /T_he circulator 
could complement more regional bus lines such as the 54 by creating an easy transfer 
at the town center transit hub.
Relocate and add amenities to bus stops on 5400 South. Moving bus stops next to 
pedestrian crossings will increase pedestrian access to transit and reduce the severity 
of the 5400 South barrier. Increasing the amenities at bus stops will increase the 
comfort of passengers and make transit more visible along the 5400 South corridor.
15
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
Improve the pedestrian environment to improve transit access. Improving the pedestrian 
environment for transit access means completing the sidewalk network within 
the surrounding neighborhoods, improving the pedestrian environment on major 
streets, and improving the crossings of major streets. See Pedestrian network section 
for more information.
Explore tying the planned high capacity route system into the T own Center. Opportunities 
include moving one of the enhanced bus routes to 5400 South and tying it into the 
potential transit hub or moving the BRT further east.
Vehicle network
/T_he vehicle network is and will continue to be the primary mode of transportation 
to the T own Center for many residents of Kearns, surrounding communities, and the 
greater region. /T_he T own Center will need to accommodate convenient auto access, 
circulation, and parking in a way that complements and supports pedestrian, bicycle, 
and transit access and environments.
As seen in Figure 7, the vehicle network consists of street roadways, driveways, and parking 
areas. Key aspects of this network include 5400 South, which provides important local and 
regional access, the 5400 South / 4015 West intersection, the Bangerter Highway corridor 
(and its relationship to 5400 South), the Mountain View Corridor (and its relationship to 
5400 South), and the internal circulation network of streets, drives, and parking.
Figure 7: Existing Vehicle Capacity
16
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
Vehicle Assets
/T_he regional and community level network capacity is generally good around the 
T own Center area.  Arterial and collector streets around the T own Center including 
4000 West, 5400 South, Sam’s Way, 4220 West, 4700 South, and 6200 South currently 
have extra capacity (See Figure 7).
/T_he grade separation of 5400 South / Bangerter will be a bene/f_it to traﬃc /f_low in the 
area. /T_he segments of the network that are over-capacity are focused on the 5400 South 
/ 4000 West and 5400 South / Bangerter Highway intersections. /T_he upcoming grade 
separation of 5400 South and Bangerter should free up some capacity in this area. 
/T_he T own Center area is generally accessible to the Kearns community by car. Due to 
a relatively well-connected network, residents of nearby neighborhoods o/f_ten have a 
choice of several routes to get to the T own Center area, many of which avoid the more 
congested arterial streets.
/T_he T own Center area lies close to several regional roadways. /T_he T own Center sits 
adjacent to 5400 South, which connects Kearns to the rest of Salt Lake Valley and 
very close to Bangerter Highway, which connects it via a soon-to-be freeway with 
much of the rest of the west valley. /T_he developing Mountain View corridor is also 
about 3 miles to the west.
Vehicle Challenges
5400 South is over capacity during the p.m. peak near the T own Center area. 5400 
South’s intersection with 4015 West is likely the biggest vehicle challenge in the 
T own Center’s area. /T_he conversion of 5400 South / 4015 West back to a traditional 
intersection presents capacity and safety issues. With removal of the /T_hru U, 5400 
S. / 4015 W. intersection will probably need dual le/f_t turns. In addition, the curved 
geometry of 5400 South at the intersection creates further challenges.
Currently, many driveways connect commercial uses with 5400 South, creating 
con/f_licts among turning traﬃc and through traﬃc. With the /T_hru U turn being 
converted back to a traditional intersection, the removal of the concrete median on 
5400 South could further exacerbate the number and severity of con/f_licts in the area.  
Crash data show that front-to-rear, sideswipe and angle crashes are very common in 
the approaches to the 5400 South / 4015 West intersection. /T_hese are likely caused by 
jockeying to get in position for movements at this intersection.
While not immediately adjacent to the town center area, the irregular intersection at 5400 
South, Cougar Lane and Northwest Avenue poses a community-wide challenge to access 
of many Kearns destinations. 5400 South’s crossing of the rail tracks (via underpass) is the 
only connection across this barrier for a mile on both sides, which creates traﬃc pressure. 
In addition, the presence of the rail bridge and awkward T intersections for the north-
south streets further challenge the intersection for capacity and safety.
Currently, many businesses depend on easy access from major streets in part due to a 
lack of a way/f_inding system for motorists.
/T_he T own Center area currently has an urban form with prominent surface parking. 
/T_he vision is to implement a more pedestrian-oriented form, so one challenge is to 
create a diﬀerent urban form that locates, allocates, and designs parking in a way that 
is convenient but also supports the pedestrian character of the campus.
Vehicle Opportunities
Re/f_ine the function of 5400 South/4015 West and improve the geometry. /T_he grade 
separation of 5400 South and Bangerter Highway will likely improve /f_low along 5400 
South, including the 4015 South intersection. /T_he T own Center project can help 
improve the geometry and operations of this intersection, which will likely need to 
add le/f_t turn lanes on 5400 South.
Access management strategies. /T_he 4120 West intersection with 5400 South could 
be part of an access management strategy to reduce con/f_licts near the 5400 South / 
4000 West intersection. One strategy could be a short stretch of local access lane on 
5400 South at the T own Center to accommodate slow moving traﬃc, add on-street 
parking, and reduce con/f_lict points with fast-moving traﬃc.
Provide district / campus parking shared by diﬀerent / complementary uses. Parking will 
be a major aspect of the T own Center and its placement and design will strongly 
inform the character of the place. With a range of uses likely to be included in the 
campus, the parking placement, provision, and design should strongly consider how 
parking can be shared among uses. 
17
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
Provide a park-and-ride for transit (see transit hub item in transit network discussion). A 
park-and-ride can incentivize more rides to work and other regional destinations on transit.
Places for pick-up and drop-oﬀ. /T_he T own Center should include one or more locations 
to pick up and drop oﬀ passengers, whether for parents/guardians dropping oﬀ kids 
or transportation network companies dropping oﬀ passengers.
Clear way/f_inding signage that also brands the T own Center. A program of way/f_inding 
signage can communicate to T own Center visitors how to access the area and create a 
distinct brand for the place. 
Overall Streets
/T_he streets analysis considers the physical street facilities that the transportation 
modes use – and in which they must coexist. It also considers the streets as a framework 
for placemaking at the T own Center. Streets “set the stage” for how transportation, 
economics, and other factors mix to create the town center’s character.
As part of this analysis, the team conducted a basic street network connectivity 
analysis. /T_he T own Center area network (an approximately half mile square area from 
5615 S to 4990 S and from Bangerter Highway to 4245 West) scored well on the 
connectivity index (92% of the standard for an urban neighborhood) but less well 
on intersection density (56% of the standard). /T_his means that, overall, the network 
streets are relatively well-connected to one another (with few dead ends/cul-de-
sacs), but there aren’t enough streets and intersections – largely due to the very large 
commercial blocks that “interrupt” the relatively dense neighborhood street grid.
Overall Streets Assets
/T_he street network within the individual neighborhoods around the town center 
area is relatively connected. /T_he connectivity index of the area, including the T own 
Center, scored at 92 percent of the standard for its context type.
/T_he neighborhood networks /f_low relatively well into the T own Center area from the 
north and south (apart from 5400 South). /T_he north-south streets such as 4015 West 
generally perform well for all modes. 
Overall Streets Challenges
5400 South is a challenge and a priority for all modes; it currently does not work well 
for any of the modes but it needs to work for all of them.
Bangerter Highway presents a challenge for all modes in accessing the town center. 
It is the major factor that reduces the mile “travel-shed” for the T own Center area. 
/T_he grade separation of the Bangerter/5400 South intersection will help relieve the 
traﬃc pinch point there, but may exacerbate the bicycle and pedestrian access across 
Bangerter Highway.
/T_he area has a lot of “T” intersections that reduce connectivity for all modes.
/T_he street and parking layout relative to the buildings and open spaces will determine, 
in large part, the T own Center’s character. Currently the approach to streets and 
parking in the area does not emphasize an inviting, walkable character. /T_he challenge 
will be to balance access to the campus by car and other modes with a walkable 
character and streets that integrate the uses in a way that creates human-occupied, 
human-scale, safe, and lively spaces.
Overall Streets Opportunities
Create more four-way intersections to increase connectivity. Re-design the street network 
in the T own Center and connections to neighborhood streets to create more 4-way 
intersections.
Densify street network in the T own Center area. Create blocks in the T own Center that are 
smaller than the existing commercial blocks. One approach could be to create blocks 
similar to the rectangular neighborhood street grid. 
Reinforce multi-modal function of north-south streets. Use way/f_inding, transit re-routing, 
re-striping, streetscape and other measures to emphasize a compatible mix of modes 
on 4015 West, the Misty Way-4180 West corridor, and 4420 West.
Consider shared street designs in the T own Center. Shared streets can emphasize 
pedestrian and bicycle circulation in the T own Center while allowing for vehicle 
circulation and denser network of streets. 
18
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting Existing Conditions, Analysis & Implications
Land Use
The current Kearns Library is a 17,000 sf building 
located at 5350 South 4220 West adjacent to Oquirrh 
Hills elementary school and within walking distance 
of Kearns Junior High School. The architectural 
program created for the new library includes 34,000 
square feet of space and will create opportunities for 
outdoor learning. This will maintain the connection 
with the elementary and junior high schools. The 
location of the current library and the new Kearns 
T own center area are identified in Figure 8.
Current Zoning
The Kearns T own Center area is currently zoned C2 
and is governed by the provisions of Title 19 of the Salt 
Lake County Code of Ordinances.  The C2 Zone is 
intended to provide areas for community commercial 
development.  The list of permitted uses in the C2 
zone include community and neighborhood business 
types.  Single-family and Multi-family dwellings are 
Conditional Uses in the zone.
Current Land Use
The Kearns T own Center planning area is currently 
developed as a suburban strip center with medium 
and small box anchors each with its own parking 
field.  There are pad sites along the 5400 South and 
4015 West frontages, again each with its own parking 
field.  Interior to the planning area are several storage 
unit complexes. Lot sizes in the area are large with 
little to no connectivity between areas.
Figure 8 – Planning Area Map
Maximum building height is six stories or 75 feet. Maximum lot coverage is 60 percent. The maximum densities 
in the zone are:
USE MAXIMUM DENSITY (UNITS/ACRE)
Single Family dwellings 7
Two-Family dwellings 12
Three-Family dwellings 15
Four-Family dwellings 18
Multi-Family dwellings 25
Rail transit mixed-use No maximum density
19
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns T own Center Master Plan
KEARNS TOWN CENTER MASTER PLAN
INTRODUCTION
/T_he Kearns community expressed a desire that the Kearns T own Center regain its 
importance as both a community and commercial center. /T_he preferred alternative 
T own Center Plan envisions a mixed-use area with opportunities for new investment 
in residential, oﬃce, retail, civic and community uses. /T_he community reviewed 
diﬀering approaches to “retro/f_i/t_ting” the area that re/f_lects 40-50-year-old development 
approaches including large un-broken parking /f_ields, limited pedestrian connectivity 
and store fronts set back from the street.  Each retail store must provide on-site parking 
creating a lack of continuity between uses.
/T_he T own Center preferred alternative breaks down the large blocks of development 
and creates opportunities for circulation within the area for pedestrians, bicycles, and 
cars. /T_he proposed network of multi-use roads provides redevelopment opportunities 
to create an area of more intensive use as the gateway to Kearns.
USE S 
During the planning process the community expressed a strong preference for new 
retail types in the planning area.  /T_hese retail types include coﬀee shops, sit down 
and fast casual restaurants, services, and other local serving retail.  /T_here are several 
local retailers in the area that residents would like to see retained and enhanced as a 
result of new investment opportunities in the area.  /T_he types of retail identi/f_ied by the 
community fall into several standard retail categories:
 
• Neighborhood Goods & Services
 • Food & Beverage
 • General Merchandise, Apparel, Furnishings and Other
T able 2 includes data used to evaluate the viability of an area for diﬀerent retail uses.  
A pedestrian count has not been completed for the study area; however, the current 
con/f_iguration of the area provides limited pedestrian opportunities.
TABLE 2: KEARNS TOWN CENTER KEY RETAIL MARKET INDICATORS
1/2 MILE 1MILE 3 MILE
Population 4,566 22,341 168,115
Median Household Income $52,161 $56,194 $67,264
Daytime Population 1,162 2,355 29,121
Percent of Population w/Bachelor's Degree + 8% 8% 8%
Pedestrians/Hour on Average    
Bus/Transit Lines Present 2 2 2
Traffic Count on 5400 South 18,000 18,000 18,000
Source:   Census, UDOT
20
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns T own Center Master Plan
RETAIL MARKET FEASIBILITY
Appendix F provides the retail market assessment tool for neighborhood goods and services type retailers (pharmacies, grocery stores, etc.,) food and beverage outlets, 
and general merchandise, apparel, furnishings and other retail types. Using the retail indicators from T able 2, a preliminary market assessment was completed for the targeted 
retail types. T able 3 is a summary of the results of the preliminary assessment.
TABLE 3: KEARNS TOWN CENTER PRELIMINARY RETAIL MARKET EVALUATION
RETAIL CATEGORY TRADE AREA (MILES) SCORE OPPORTUNITY
Neighborhood Goods & Services 0.5 6 Modest
Food & Beverage 0.5 4 Challenged
General Merchandise, Apparel, Furnishings & Other 1 3 Challenged
An area with a score between 5 and 9 indicates a Modest Opportunity. A modest opportunity is one that may be appropriate for targeted retailers within the category if it is in an 
area of growth and surrounded by other retailers and cultural and civic anchors likely to draw customers to the area.
A “Modest” rating can be improved by addressing one or more of the indicators used in the evaluation for Neighborhood Goods and Services.  For instance, in the Kearns T own 
Center area achieving the targets identi/f_ied in T able 4 would improve the opportunity score by the 3 points needed to reach an opportunity rating of “suitable. ”
TABLE 4: KEARNS TOWN CENTER NEIGHBORHOOD GOODS AND SERVICES MARKET SUITABILITY MEASURES
 CURRENT TARGET DIFFERENCE ORIGINAL SCORE REVISED 
SCORE
Population 4,566 7,500 2,934 2 3
Median Household Income $52,161 $65,000 $12,839 1 2
Daytime Population 1,162 5,000 3,838 0 1
Educational Attainment (% with Bachelor's Degree or higher) 8% 15% 7% 0 1
Average Pedestrians/Hour 0 20 20 0 1
Bus Transit Lines 2 3 1 1 1
AADT (annual average daily traffic) 18,000 18,000 0 1 1
Other outlets within category Yes Yes N/A 1 1
TOTAL    6 11
21
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns T own Center Master Plan
/T_he mix of land uses and the design of the redeveloped T own Center can address several of the measures including resident and daytime population and the average number 
of pedestrians per hour. Other measures, such as median household income and educational a/t_tainment are more diﬃcult to address. A/t_tracting housing at a higher than area 
average price point and jobs paying more than the area median are two ways to improve the income and educational a/t_tainment measures.
A “Challenged” rating is more diﬃcult to address.  For the Food & Beverage retail category, achieving the targets in T able 5 would achieve a rating 6 points higher than the current rating.
TABLE 5: KEARNS TOWN CENTER FOOD AND BEVERAGE MARKET SUITABILITY MEASURES
 CURRENT TARGET DIFFERENCE ORIGINAL SCORE REVISED 
SCORE
Population 4,566 7,500 2,934 0 1
Median Household Income $52,161 $65,000 $12,839 1 2
Daytime Population 1,162 15,000 13,838 0 1
Educational Attainment (% with Bachelor's Degree or higher) 8% 20% 20% 0 1
Average Pedestrians/Hour 0 60 60 0 1
Bus Transit Lines 2 3 1 1 1
AADT (annual average daily traffic) 18,000 18,000 0 1 1
Other outlets within category Yes Yes N/A 1 1
TOTAL    4 9
As with the ratings for neighborhood goods and services, increasing the resident and daytime population in the area as well as redeveloping the T own Center to enhance 
the pedestrian experience are key steps in improving market performance of the area.  It will be diﬃcult to achieve a “Suitable” rating in the area; however, by creating a high 
functioning and a/t_tractive mixed-use area, a “Modest” rating may prove adequate to a/t_tract higher quality Food & Beverage outlets to the T own Center.
22
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns T own Center Master Plan
T able 6 identi/f_ies the targets to improve the market viability rating for the T own Center Area for the General Merchandise category.
TABLE 6: KEARNS TOWN CENTER GENERAL MERCHANDISE OR APPAREL MARKET SUITABILITY MEASURES
 CURRENT TARGET DIFFERENCE ORIGINAL SCORE REVISED 
SCORE
Population 22,341 30,000 7,659 0 1
Median Household Income $56,194 $75,000 $18,806 1 2
Daytime Population 2,355 10,000 7,645 0 1
Educational Attainment (% with Bachelor's Degree or higher) 8% 25% 17% 0 1
Average Pedestrians/Hour 0 40 40 0 1
Bus Transit Lines 2 3 1 1 1
AADT (annual average daily traffic) 18,000 18,000 0 1 1
Other outlets within category No Yes N/A 0 1
TOTAL    3 9
Achieving a “Suitable” rating for a General Merchandise or Apparel store in the T own Center area is signi/f_icantly more diﬃcult although smaller format stores may consider the 
area once the mixed-use development is well-established.
A key consideration in returning the Kearns T own Center area to its status as an economic driver for the Kearns T ownship as a whole is creating a mixed-use neighborhood to 
support desired retail and community uses and to take advantage of public investments already made in the area.  
23
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns T own Center Master Plan
TOWN CENTER OPTIONS
/T_he planning process focused on desired future land uses and the physical transformation of the area.  Early in the planning process the community identi/f_ied civic and 
community uses to be retained or added to the area as well as the format and level of connectivity desired.  /T_he following two options incorporate the ideas and input of the 
overall community.
Concept  1 in Figure 9 concentrates new public plaza space near the new Kearns Library and Utah Community Action facilities at the western-most edge of the T own Center.  
/T_he option creates additional connectivity throughout the area and retains large parcels for future redevelopment.
/T_his option is less likely to generate the level of pedestrian activity needed to transform the area and does not enhance the area as a future residential and oﬃce environment. 
Figure 9: Town Center Concept 1
24
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns T own Center Master Plan
/T_he second concept for redevelopment of the Kearns T own Center seen in Figure 10 creates a transit plaza adjacent to the new Kearns Library and new Uni/f_ied Police Department 
substation.  Additional plaza space for community activities is centrally located adjacent to future development areas for housing, oﬃce, and retail.  /T_his option increases and 
improves pedestrian activity and provides an enhanced environment for future development. 
Figure 10: Town Center Concept 2
25
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns T own Center Master Plan
RECOMMENDED TOWN CENTER CONCEPT
Figure 11 represents the recommended Kearns T own Center concept.  /T_he key 
elements of the concept are:
•  Recreate a network of multi-use streets that emphasize multi-modal access 
throughout the area
  - Wide sidewalks with pedestrian amenities
  - Area for dining and outdoor retail displays
  -  Festival streets that can be closed and used in conjunction with the community 
plaza for concerts, art festivals, farmers markets, etc.
 
 •   Invest in multi-use community spaces
  - T ransit plaza adjacent to the proposed UPD Substation and transit stops
  - Community plaza located to 
   •  Encourage retail development and activity on all edges
   • Anchor a new main street concept
   • T ake advantage of festival streets
 •  Development parcels available for redevelopment as retained and new
  - Retail stores
  - Restaurants
  - Oﬃces
  - Housing
Figure 11: Recommended Town Center Concept
26
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Design & Implementation Guidelines
DESIGN & IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINES
Introduction
Future development of the Kearns T own Center as envisioned will improve the 
walkable and human scale of the area. A/t_tention to urban design details will ensure 
that future development will foster pedestrian activity and increase the value of 
development within the T own Center.
/T_he Kearns T own Center is:
 
• A healthy gathering place,
 • Representative of the diverse Kearns community,
 • Re/f_lective of Kearns’ history,
 • Connects residents, businesses and visitors, and
 • Provides opportunities for learning and enrichment.
Uses
/T_he Kearns T own Center area has been in/f_luenced and de/f_ined by the area’s beginnings.  
It was the commercial center of the neighborhoods that grew out of Camp Kearns 
following closure of the army camp following the end of WWII. /T_he area is currently 
home to the Kearns Library, the Kearns UPD Substation, the Utah Community Action 
community center (under construction) and several locally-owned shops important to 
the community. 
/T_he community’s goal is to build on the important civic assets in the area to enhance 
its role as a community gathering and shopping area. Within this context there are 
opportunities for enhancing the Kearns T own Center area by providing employment, 
retail, public space and residential uses. Developing a new urban district around the 
existing amenities can prioritize the pedestrian experience and provide visual and 
aesthetic interest. /T_he community assets already in place provide an opportunity for 
redevelopment and modernization of the area.
T o increase intensity of use and create a vibrant T own Center, retail uses should focus 
on the Neighborhood Goods & Services and Food & Beverage categories. Some 
smaller scale General Merchandise and Apparel retailers may seek to locate in the area 
as the T own Center matures. /T_he success of retailers in the area will be aided by the 
addition of 18-hour population to the T own Center in the form of new residential units 
and new employment.
Circulation 
Circulation within the T own Center will accommodate all modes of transportation 
including pedestrian, bicycle, bus, and car. Development should focus on encouraging 
pedestrian traﬃc by creating multiple entrances on the street level of buildings and 
minimize walls, including dark glazed glass.
Designed for People (not Cars)
Designing a place for human comfort and use fosters activity on the street and creates 
great places. All future developments and improvements in the T own Center should 
build on solid urban design principles to add a welcoming pedestrian environment 
to the area. Current strengths include the Kearns Library, Kearns UPD Substation, 
Utah Community Action Community Center, area schools, locally owned businesses, 
and existing stable neighborhoods.  Future growth and investment should focus on 
bringing more and varied destinations to the T own Center. Human-scaled façades and 
building masses as well as street level interests should be highest priority for the T own 
Center.
Intensity of Use
Current development intensity of the Kearns T own Center area re/f_lects its history as a 
suburban car-served shopping area.  Retailers, businesses and new residents are seeking 
areas rich with shopping, eating, and cultural activities. /T_his more “urban” approach to 
suburban neighborhoods requires more intensive use of properties in mixed-use areas.
As seen in the retail suitability analysis, new community and cultural space, new 
residential development and new employment opportunities will improve the T own 
Center’s commercial performance. /T_he T own Center is approximately 30 acres. T able 7 
compares current uses to possible uses a/f_ter redevelopment of the area.
27
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Design & Implementation Guidelines
TABLE 7: CURRENT AND REDEVELOPED USES
CURRENT REDEVELOPED
USE ACRES BUILDING SQUARE FEET/  
DESIGNATED USE ACRES BUILDING SQUARE FEET/  
DESIGNATED USE
Library 1  3  
Community Center 0 0 1  
UPD (w/Transit Plaza) 0 0 1 15,000
Office 2 27,398 5 492,750
Residential 0 30 7 172
Retail 21 233,254 8 189,971
Light Industrial 3 25,730 0 0
Church 1 12,208 0 0
Vacant 0.5 0 0 0
Internal Circulation/Community Plaza 0  4  
/T_he redeveloped Kearns T own Center adds intensity and excitement to the area to 
increase productivity of existing and planned future infrastructure investments.
/T_here are several keys to making mixed use development work:
• Housing that /f_ills an unmet or underserved need,
 • /T_he appropriate commercial tenants,
 • Quality /f_inishes and amenities,
 • Proximity to public transportation, and
 • Architecture that respects the heritage of the neighborhood.
8 COMPONENTS FOR VIBRANCY
In order to a/t_tract the right type of commercial tenants, those most appropriate for a 
mixed-use area, a vibrant retail street is a key component of the overall vision. /T_here are 
eight key components to a vibrant retail street within a mixed-use area:
/T_he Retail Area is Managed 
A Business Improvement District (BID), Micro Business District, Main Street Program, 
Merchant’s Association or similar group should be created in order to:
 
• Establish annual goals for the community to work together to achieve,
 • Encourage retailers to maintain similar hours,
 • Pursue combined marketing opportunities, and
 • Assign a contact person to represent the organization.
 
Optional activities include:
 
• Programming of common spaces,
 • Operation (snow clearance, garbage disposal, etc.) of common spaces,
 • Maintenance of common spaces, and
 • Coordinated recruitment of new businesses.
/T_he Area is “Retail Appropriate” 
A retail appropriate street is one in which non-retail storefronts (i.e. oﬃces, churches, 
non-pro/f_it headquarters on the ground /f_loor) are minimized and retail vacancy is lower 
than 20 percent.  /T_hese measures are intended to keep the street level activity vibrant 
and encourage customers of one store type to support other store types.  A key /f_irst step 
in transforming the Kearns T own Center area to a high performing mixed-use area is to 
28
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns T own Center Master Plan
complete an inventory of current retail uses in the area. Appendix G is a spreadsheet-
based tool to complete the inventory and evaluation of each of the retail users currently 
located in the district.  
/T_he Area is “Mixed” 
Using the inventory from Appendix G, identify viable “target” businesses for the area.  
Create a list of commercial brokers (oﬃce and retail) working in Kearns. Invite them 
to share their insights about what elements of the Kearns T own Center are and are not 
a/t_tractive to the target tenant categories. Identify planning, zoning, infrastructure and 
amenity changes most likely to a/t_tract targeted tenants.
/T_he Area Feels Safe 
Ensure that there are residences near the retail district or another type of activity that 
encourages daytime, evening and weekend occupancy and activity on the street. 
Provide pedestrian level lighting that illuminates the sidewalk. Ensure the area is safe 
and a/t_tractive for residents and visitors.
Maintenance of the public spaces will make the area feel safer.  /T_his includes addressing:
 
• Any non-functioning streetlamps,
 • Poorly maintained public trash receptacles or benches,
 • Grass or weeds in public areas that need mowing,
 • Sidewalks in disrepair,
 • Graﬃti, and
 • Any similar issues.
/T_he Area is Championed 
An area can be championed by a private developer planning a large project or the 
community itself planning a major investment in infrastructure or amenities including 
streetscape, paving, public art or similar projects.
/T_he Area is Anchored 
Cultural and civic uses provide a reason for people to visit the area. In addition to the 
Kearns Library, the Utah Community Action Community Center and UPD Substation 
the area enjoys proximity to two local schools.  In addition, the plan contemplates 
the creation of two public plazas and a pedestrian friendly street network that can 
be closed for festivals and other events.  /T_he public space would also bene/f_it from 
active programming for performances, farmers market, art and gallery stroll and other 
activities.  Retail establishments such as a fabric shop, barbershop or coﬀee shop can 
also ful/f_ill a cultural and civic role.
/T_he Area is Walkable 
/T_he area currently is not pedestrian friendly. /T_he Kearns T own Center Plan contemplates 
signi/f_icant investment in an improved pedestrian environment. /T_his includes wider 
sidewalks internal to the mixed-use development area, sidewalks with a minimum of 
10 feet of clear path for pedestrians, as well as area for outdoor dining adjacent to food 
and beverage establishments and benches and other street furniture and amenities. 
/T_he illustrative concept, as seen in /f_igured 9-11, also includes trees and other shade 
structures for an improved pedestrian experience as well as street lighting to ensure 
pedestrian safety.
/T_he Area is Uni/f_ied 
Branding the area will increase its value to retail and oﬃce tenants as well as making 
it distinct from other areas in the valley. /T_he identi/f_ied brand should be re/f_lected in 
streetscape and other public space elements as well as in signage and marketing 
materials. However, a branded or uni/f_ied area should not be confused with a “uniform” 
area. Retailers should be given a menu of approaches that are consistent with the brand 
but allow variety and interest.
29
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns T own Center Master Plan
ARCHITECTURE AND BUILT FORM GUIDELINES
General guidelines and preferences for the architectural character of buildings 
constructed in the Kearns T own Center are provided to assist in establishing a uni/f_ied 
(not uniform) look and character in the area. 
Iconic buildings contribute to a “sense of place” and arrival. /T_he new Kearns Library will 
anchor the northwestern edge of the T own Center.  /T_his building will be unique and striking 
along the 5400 South frontage, acting as a visual anchor to the area.  Other buildings within 
the T own Center should complement, not copy, the design of the Library.
Community input expressed a preference for buildings that:
• Are 3-4 levels,
 • Provide active uses on the ground /f_loor,
 • Use traditional building materials (brick, etc.), and
 • Enhance the pedestrian experience.
In addition, new buildings in the T own Center should re/f_lect the following qualities:
 •  Orient the front façade of all buildings to the internal multi-use or festival street 
network.
 
•  Locate parking and vehicle access away from entries, open space and street 
interactions. 
 
- Create logical and intuitive access corridors for all modes of travel.
 - Provide pedestrian scale lighting and amenities.
 - Create simple and straightforward building forms.
 - Provide practical and utilitarian use of space.
 - Focus on street-level design and the creation of positive pedestrian connection.
 - Re/f_lect existing neighborhood context.
 - Scale, massing and form of new buildings should:
  - Re/f_lect the urban se/t_ting of the site,
  - Act as a transition to lower density surrounding areas, and 
  -  Enhance and frame view corridors to the Kearns Library, UPD substation, and 
community plazas.
Building Permeability
Life on the street and a vibrant pedestrian environment depend on windows and doors 
at the street level.  Building permeability connects businesses to pedestrians. Requiring 
new and redeveloped spaces to make visible their interiors via doors, windows and wall 
openings signi/f_icantly reduces the distinction between indoor and outdoor activities.
Pedestrians crave visual interest. Long stretches of blank walls and re/f_lective glass break 
connections and signal separation and inaccessibility. Façades designed with long 
horizontal lines make distances seem longer and more tiring.
Materials
Materials should be traditional and long lasting, including brick, metal siding and panels, 
horizontal and vertical metal siding pa/t_terns in pre/f_inished colors, and natural metal /f_inishes.
Orientation
Building design and siting should consider solar orientation, climatic conditions, wind 
pa/t_terns, and other environmental conditions. Parking should be to the rear and between 
buildings or provided as part of screened and shared lots. /T_he exterior of buildings should 
include windows and openings, materials, and architectural features that are coordinated 
on all sides of the building in order to achieve harmony and continuity.
Figure 12: Architects Rendering Kearns Library 
(Architectural Nexus, 2018)
30
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns T own Center Master Plan
Screening
Roof top and ground level mechanical units, condensing units, electrical equipment 
and transformers, dumpsters, and service loading areas should be screened from view. 
Screening for all equipment and dumpsters should be integrated and complementary 
to the design of the site and buildings. Service and loading areas will need to be 
considered early on in the site planning process to accomplish eﬀective screening.
Signage
Building signage on oﬃce and iconic structures should create a sense of place and 
re/f_lect the role of the T own Center as a gateway to the community. Street level signage 
plays a critical role in the human scale of an area.  Signage location and type can 
establish the personality of an area in a way that will encourage people to return to 
discover new destinations each time they pass through the Kearns T own Center.  
Correct signage placement is critical in orienting pedestrians. Businesses need 
visibility and ease of customer access.  Pedestrian focused signage should be scaled 
and re/f_lect a pedestrian travel speed of approximately 3 miles per hour.   Pedestrian 
focused signage can include blade signs, building façade signs and A Frame signs.
Sustainability
/T_he design of sustainable buildings that are more energy eﬃcient and that have less 
impact on the overall environment have become fairly standard practice in recent 
years and will continue to do so in the future. Sustainable design and programs such 
as the USGBC (U.S Green Building Council) LEED (Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design) and SITE rating systems should be considered and applied as 
determined appropriate.
IMPLEMENTATION
Regulatory Structure
Kearns Metro T ownship zoning and development ordinances are the primary tool to 
implement the design guidelines and requirements for redevelopment of the Kearns 
T own Center Plan.  /T_he existing MD-1 and MD-2 zoning designations available in the 
current zoning code should be reviewed for compatibility with this plan.  In addition, 
a T own Center Overlay Zone addressing the urban design elements of this plan should 
be dra/f_ted and applied over the T own Center planning area.
Public/Private Partnerships
/T_he Kearns T own Center envisions additional public investment in community 
spaces and connectivity. Public-private partnerships are a key tool to capture 
the value created from public investments and encourage private investment.  A 
community development area has been created to allow use of public/private tools in 
implementation of the T own Center Plan.
Transportation and Connectivity
An internal network of streets that prioritize the pedestrian experience should be 
created within the T own Center on both sides of 5400 South.  In addition, connectivity 
across 5400 South should be enhanced with additional pedestrian crossing.  Vehicle/
pedestrian safety along 5400 South can be improved with the introduction of a uni/f_ied 
circulation approach that may allow the elimination of some drive entrances along 
5400 South. Eliminating entrances may reduce the potential for negative car/car and 
car/pedestrian interactions.
Kearns T ownship and UTA should work to create a small transit hub at the T own 
Center including existing bus lines, proposed BRT and a new circulator system.
Governance
Create a Micro-Business Improvement District or T own Center Merchant’s 
Association to market and manage the area. Uni/f_ied governance adds value through 
marketing, recruiting and programming of public and community spaces.  A key 
element of successful community spaces is to program them with community-based 
activities (farmer’s markets, food truck evenings, etc.) to a/t_tract visitors and shoppers 
to the area.
GSBS CONSULTING
375  W  200  S  S UIT E 100, SALT L AKE CIT Y, U TA H 84101   //  801.521 .8600 
DRAFT December 2018
KEARNS TOWN CENTER MASTER PLAN
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
1
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix A
Kearns City Center 
Kearns City Center 
–
–
 Public 
Workshops
October 2016
Kearns City Center
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns City Center 
DRAFT
Kearns City Center 
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
–
DRAFT
–
 Public 
DRAFT
Public 
Public 
DRAFT
Public 
DRAFT
DRAFT
Public 
DRAFT
Public 
Workshops
DRAFT
Workshops
Workshops
DRAFT
Workshops
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns City Center
DRAFT
Kearns City Center
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
2
Kearns City Center
• Create a Vision Statement
• Gather Ideas
– Survey
– Charrette
• Healthy Kearns meetings
• Stakeholder meetings
Kearns City Center ± Draft Vision Statement
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns City Center 
DRAFT
Kearns City Center 
DRAFT
Kearns City Center 
DRAFT
Kearns City Center 
±
DRAFT
±
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
±
DRAFT
±
 Draft Vision Statement
DRAFT
Draft Vision Statement
Draft Vision Statement
DRAFT
Draft Vision Statement
DRAFT

3
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns City Center
SURVEY RESULTS
Who Responded?
0% 10% 20% 30% 40%
Under 18
18-24
25-34
35-54
55-64
65+
Age
Survey 2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 10%)N=146 N=146
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
One
Two
Three
Four +
Household Size
Survey 2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 16%)
N=146 N=146
0% 20% 40% 60%
Male
Female
Gender
Survey 2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 11%)
N=146 N=146
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
White
African American
Asian/Pacific Islander
Native American/Native…
Hispanic
Other
Race/Ethnicity
Survey 2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 10% to 40%)N=146 N=146
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
SURVEY RESULTS
DRAFT
SURVEY RESULTS
DRAFT
Who Responded?
DRAFT
Who Responded?
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
0%
DRAFT
0% 10% 20% 30% 40%
DRAFT
10% 20% 30% 40%
Under 18
DRAFT
Under 18
18-24
DRAFT
18-24
25-34
DRAFT
25-34
35-54
DRAFT
35-54
55-64
DRAFT
55-64
65+
DRAFT
65+
Age
DRAFT
Age
DRAFT
Survey
DRAFT
Survey
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 10%)
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 10%)N=146 N=146
DRAFT
N=146 N=146
Race/Ethnicity
DRAFT
Race/Ethnicity
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
4
Participation
0% 10% 20% 30%
Very often
Often
Somewhat often
Not so often
Not at all often
How often do you participate in community 
events in Kearns? 
N=146
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Kearns Library
Another Library
Head Start
Salt Lake County Child Care
Stores and shops at 54th S 41st W
Have you visited the following in the last 12 months? 
N=146
Why aren’t they participating
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
Nothing of interest
Too busy
Not convenient
Hard to get there
Other
If you don’t participate in community events in Kearns, what are 
some of the reasons why not
N=146
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
DRAFT
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Head Start
DRAFT
Head Start
Salt Lake County Child Care
DRAFT
Salt Lake County Child Care
Stores and shops at 54th S 41st W
DRAFT
Stores and shops at 54th S 41st W
Have you visited the following in the last 12 months? 
DRAFT
Have you visited the following in the last 12 months? 
DRAFT
Why aren’t they participating
DRAFT
Why aren’t they participating
DRAFTDRAFT
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
DRAFT
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
Nothing of interest
DRAFT
Nothing of interest
Too busy
DRAFT
Too busy
Not convenient
DRAFT
Not convenient
Hard to get thereDRAFTHard to get there
If you don’t participate in community events in Kearns, what are 
DRAFT
If you don’t participate in community events in Kearns, what are 
some of the reasons why not
DRAFT
some of the reasons why not
5
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Other responses
What types of activities would you participate in 
if they were available in Kearns?
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
What types of activities would you participate in 
DRAFT
What types of activities would you participate in 
if they were available in Kearns?
DRAFT
if they were available in Kearns?
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
6
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Library
YMCA Center
Senior Center
Food Pantry
Head Start program
County-run daycare program
Meeting spaces
Public plaza
Green space
Play areas
Bicycle and walking trails
UPD sub station
Coffee shops
Sandwich shops
Taco stands/shops
Full service restaurants
Other
What of the following would you like to see included 
in this new Campus area?
N=146
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Gathering Place
Healthy
Diversity
Community history
Connections to the rest of Kearns
Connections between businesses+residents
Learning
Enrichment
Art
All ages
What are the most important ideas to consider in the design of the 
new Campus?
N=14
6
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Full service restaurants
DRAFT
Full service restaurants
Other
DRAFT
Other
DRAFT
Gathering Place
DRAFT
Gathering Place
Connections to the rest of Kearns
DRAFT
Connections to the rest of Kearns
Connections between businesses+residents
DRAFT
Connections between businesses+residents
What are the most important ideas to consider in the design of the 
DRAFT
What are the most important ideas to consider in the design of the 
new Campus?
DRAFT
new Campus?
7
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Pedestrian/Bicycle Trails
Cross walks
A place for local children/musicians/others to
perform
A plaza for community events
A place to rest, relax and read the paper, etc.
Meeting space for community groups
Parks
What amenities do you think should be available or more available 
in Kearns?
N=146
Kearns City Center
Charrette Ideas
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Parks
DRAFT
Parks
DRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns City Center
DRAFT
Kearns City Center

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
8
Kearns City Center
Kearns City Center
Initial Concepts
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns City Center
DRAFT
Kearns City Center

9
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
10
 Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

11
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
12
 Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

13
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
14
 Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

15
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns City Center
Preferences
Kearns City Center
• “Sticker” exercise
• Hybrid of “Civic Plaza” and “Civic Street” 
preferred
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns City Center
DRAFT
Kearns City Center
“Sticker” exercise
DRAFT
“Sticker” exercise
•
DRAFT
• Hybrid of “Civic Plaza” and “Civic Street” 
DRAFT
Hybrid of “Civic Plaza” and “Civic Street” 
preferred
DRAFT
preferred
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
16
REPLACE
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

17
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns City Center
What Do YOU Think?
Slco.org\municipal-economic-
development
Appendix A
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
What Do YOU Think?
DRAFT
What Do YOU Think?
DRAFT
Slco.org\municipal-economic-
DRAFT
Slco.org\municipal-economic-
development
DRAFT
development
DRAFT
19
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix B
 
 
In order to gather input from  Kearns residents and visitors about creating a new  Kearns Campus, GSBS 
Consulting conducted an in-person and internet -based survey for community  residents that explored 
current needs and potential interest in a new Campus. GSBS Consulting designed the survey instrument 
using a methodology and core question set that has been used successfully in other public outreach events 
around the state, and modified to meet the needs of the Kearns  community . A copy of the survey 
instrument is located in Appendix A. 
 
There were 150 surveys collected, four of the surveys were disregarded because they were incomplete. 
Surveys were administered starting in September and concluded at the end of October.   The survey was 
administered at four events in the month of September:  two at the Kearns Library, one at the Senior Center 
and one at a Kearns High School football game.  In October, surveys were distributed and collected at 
another Kearns High School Football Stadium by the consultant team and on October 17th, 2016, the first 
public work shop was held at the Kearns Library. At this meeting, several surveys were distributed and 
gathered. A comparison of the demographics of survey respondents was compared to the public 
engagement plan metrics.  The surveys collected are representative of the demographics of the community 
by race and ethnicity. 
 
  
DRAFT
Kearns Campus,
DRAFT
Kearns Campus,
residents that explored 
DRAFT
residents that explored 
designed the survey instrument 
DRAFT
designed the survey instrument 
other public
DRAFT
other public outreach events 
DRAFT
 outreach events 
 community
DRAFT
 community . A copy of the survey 
DRAFT
. A copy of the survey 
There were 150 surveys collected, four of the surveys were disregarded because they were incomplete. 
DRAFT
There were 150 surveys collected, four of the surveys were disregarded because they were incomplete. 
were administered starting in September and concluded at the end of October.
DRAFT
were administered starting in September and concluded at the end of October.   
DRAFT
  The survey was 
DRAFT
The survey was 
administered at four events in the month of September:  two at the Kearns Library, one at the Senior Center 
DRAFT
administered at four events in the month of September:  two at the Kearns Library, one at the Senior Center 
In October, surveys were 
DRAFT
In October, surveys were distributed and collected at 
DRAFT
distributed and collected at 
School Football Stadium by the consultant team
DRAFT
School Football Stadium by the consultant team and on October 17th, 2016, the first 
DRAFT
and on October 17th, 2016, the first 
DRAFT
public work shop was held at the Kearns Library. At this meeting, several surveys were distributed and 
DRAFT
public work shop was held at the Kearns Library. At this meeting, several surveys were distributed and 
A comparison of the demographics of survey respondents was compared to the public 
DRAFT
A comparison of the demographics of survey respondents was compared to the public 
DRAFT
engagement plan metrics.  The surveys collected are representative of the demographics of the community 
DRAFT
engagement plan metrics.  The surveys collected are representative of the demographics of the community 
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
20
 
 
To better understand what the community would like to see at the Kearns Campus, we asked residents  
what type of amenities/activities they would like to see. Respondents were able to choose more than one 
option. Overwhelmingly, 77 percent of the respondents want to see a new library, followed by play areas  
with 58 percent, 57 percent responded in favor of adding bicycle and walking trails, while 51 percent 
wanted to a public plaza to be a part of the new campus.  Additionally, 45 percent of respondents 
expressed a desire to have an element of green/open space as an amenity.  
 
In our interactions with survey respondents, many have also personally expressed an interest to have an 
element that is unique to Kearns and reflects the areas history. 
 
 
  
77%
26%
32%
34%
23%
21%
38%
51%
45%
58%
57%
34%
32%
42%
30%
41%
8%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90%
Library
YMCA Center
Senior Center
Food Pantry
Head Start program
County-run daycare program
Meeting spaces
Public plaza
Green space
Play areas
Bicycle and walking trails
UPD sub station
Coffee shops
Sandwich shops
Taco stands/shops
Full service restaurants
Other
What of the following would you like to see included in this new Campus 
area?
N=146
Appendix B
DRAFT
, we asked residents
DRAFT
, we asked residents
es they would like to see. Respondents were able to choose more than one 
DRAFT
es they would like to see. Respondents were able to choose more than one 
. Overwhelmingly, 77 percent of the respondents want to see a new library, followed by play areas
DRAFT
. Overwhelmingly, 77 percent of the respondents want to see a new library, followed by play areas
57 percent responded in favor of adding bicycle and walking trails, while 51 percent 
DRAFT
57 percent responded in favor of adding bicycle and walking trails, while 51 percent 
Additionally, 45 percent of respondents 
DRAFT
Additionally, 45 percent of respondents 
expressed a desire to have an element of green/open space as an amenity. 
DRAFT
expressed a desire to have an element of green/open space as an amenity. 
In our interactions with survey respondents, many have also personally expressed an interest to have an 
DRAFT
In our interactions with survey respondents, many have also personally expressed an interest to have an 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
77%
DRAFT
77%77%
DRAFT
77%
26%
DRAFT
26%26%
DRAFT
26%
32%
DRAFT
32%32%
DRAFT
32%
34%
DRAFT
34%34%
DRAFT
34%
23%
DRAFT
23%23%
DRAFT
23%
21%
DRAFT
21%21%
DRAFT
21%
38%
DRAFT
38%
51%
DRAFT
51%
45%
DRAFT
45%45%
DRAFT
45%
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90%
DRAFT
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90%
County-run daycare program
DRAFT
County-run daycare program
Meeting spaces
DRAFT
Meeting spaces
Public plaza
DRAFT
Public plaza
Green space
DRAFT
Green space
Play areas
DRAFT
Play areas
Bicycle and walking trails
DRAFT
Bicycle and walking trails
UPD sub station
DRAFT
UPD sub station
Coffee shops
DRAFT
Coffee shops
Sandwich shops
DRAFT
Sandwich shops
Taco stands/shops
DRAFT
Taco stands/shops
Full service restaurants
DRAFT
Full service restaurants
Other
DRAFT
Other
What of the following would you like to see included in this new Campus 
DRAFT
What of the following would you like to see included in this new Campus 
N=146
DRAFT
N=146
21
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
 
 
We also wanted to understand how people wanted the new Campus to feel  and how they wanted to feel 
while being present at the Campus. Our takeaway from this question was that this space needed to be a 
gathering place, inclusive for all ages, and offers a healthy environment that has a connection with rest of 
the community. Around 65 percent of the respondents said the space should feel welcoming for people of 
all ages, and 61 percent stated the Campus needs to be a gathering place. Additionally, over 50 percent of 
respondents stated the Campus needs to feel healthy and have an art element, while 49 percent state 
there needs to be a connection to rest of Kearns. There was also significant support for elements of 
diversity and community history.  
 
 
  
61%
52%
44%
42%
49%
32%
58%
40%
51%
65%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Gathering Place
Healthy
Diversity
Community history
Connections to the rest of Kearns
Connections between businesses+residents
Learning
Enrichment
Art
All ages
What are the most important ideas to consider in the design of the 
new Campus?
N=146
Appendix B
DRAFT
and how they wanted to feel 
DRAFT
and how they wanted to feel 
while being present at the Campus. Our takeaway from this question was that this space needed to be a 
DRAFT
while being present at the Campus. Our takeaway from this question was that this space needed to be a 
gathering place, inclusive for all ages, and offers a healthy environment that has a connection with rest of 
DRAFT
gathering place, inclusive for all ages, and offers a healthy environment that has a connection with rest of 
round 65 percent of the respondents said the space should feel welcoming for people of 
DRAFT
round 65 percent of the respondents said the space should feel welcoming for people of 
all ages, and 61 percent stated the Campus needs to be a gathering place. Additionally, over 50 percent of 
DRAFT
all ages, and 61 percent stated the Campus needs to be a gathering place. Additionally, over 50 percent of 
respondents stated the Campus needs to feel healthy and have an art element, while 49 percent state 
DRAFT
respondents stated the Campus needs to feel healthy and have an art element, while 49 percent state 
there needs to be a connection to rest of Kearns. There was also significant support for elements of 
DRAFT
there needs to be a connection to rest of Kearns. There was also significant support for elements of 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
61%
DRAFT
61%
52%
DRAFT
52%52%
DRAFT
52%
44%
DRAFT
44%
42%
DRAFT
42%
49%
DRAFT
49%
32%
DRAFT
32%32%
DRAFT
32%
20% 40% 60% 80%
DRAFT
20% 40% 60% 80%
Healthy
DRAFT
Healthy
Diversity
DRAFT
Diversity
Community history
DRAFT
Community history
Connections to the rest of Kearns
DRAFT
Connections to the rest of Kearns
Connections between businesses+residents
DRAFT
Connections between businesses+residents
Learning
DRAFT
Learning
Enrichment
DRAFT
Enrichment
Art
DRAFT
Art
All ages
DRAFT
All ages
What are the most important ideas to consider in the design of the 
DRAFT
What are the most important ideas to consider in the design of the 
N=146
DRAFT
N=146
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
22
 
 
Asking how often people participate in community events allows us to better un derstand resident’s 
availability interest. Overall, our findings show residents participate in community events. Respondents 
participated very often, or often 25 and 24 percent of the time. respectively. While 27 percent of the 
respondents participated somewhat often. Approximately, 20 percent did not participate often, and 5 
percent did not participate at all.  
 
Knowing why people don’t participate gives us opportunities to better design the new Campus that 
engages its community more effectively. It also helps us better understand how events should be 
organized to better engage the community as well. The major reason for residents not participating i n 
events was due to time and being too busy, 43 percent stated this as the primary cause. There was also 
nothing of interest according to 28 percent of respondents. Convenience and accessibilities were also 
issues with 19 percent stating the event was not convenient and 15 percent stated it was hard to get there. 
Additionally, there were 14 percent stating there were other reasons which, overwhelmingly, stated they 
had no knowledge of events or that there was no effective advertising regarding the event. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
25%
24%
27%
20%
5%
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30%
Very often
Often
Somewhat often
Not so often
Not at all often
How often do you participate in community events in 
Kearns? 
N=146
28%
43%
19%
15%
14%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50%
Nothing of interest
Too busy
Not convenient
Hard to get there
Other
If you don’t participate in community events in 
Kearns, what are some of the reasons why not
N=79
Appendix B
DRAFT
Asking how often people participate in community events allows us to better un
DRAFT
Asking how often people participate in community events allows us to better un derstand 
DRAFT
derstand resident’s 
DRAFT
resident’s 
availability interest. Overall, our findings show residents participate in community events. Respondents 
DRAFT
availability interest. Overall, our findings show residents participate in community events. Respondents 
participated very often, or often 25 and 24 percent of the time. respectively. While 27 percent of the 
DRAFT
participated very often, or often 25 and 24 percent of the time. respectively. While 27 percent of the 
respondents participated somewhat often. Approximately, 20 percent did not participate often, and 5 
DRAFT
respondents participated somewhat often. Approximately, 20 percent did not participate often, and 5 
Knowing why people don’t participate 
DRAFT
Knowing why people don’t participate gives us opportunities to better design the new Campus that 
DRAFT
gives us opportunities to better design the new Campus that 
engages its community more effectively. It also helps us better understand how events should be 
DRAFT
engages its community more effectively. It also helps us better understand how events should be 
organized to better engage the community as well. The major reason for residents not participating i
DRAFT
organized to better engage the community as well. The major reason for residents not participating i
events was due to time and being too busy, 43 percent stated this as the primary cause. There was also 
DRAFT
events was due to time and being too busy, 43 percent stated this as the primary cause. There was also 
nothing of interest according to 28 percent of respondents. Convenience and accessibilities were also 
DRAFT
nothing of interest according to 28 percent of respondents. Convenience and accessibilities were also 
issues with 19 percent stating the event was not convenient and 15 percent stated it was hard to get there. 
DRAFT
issues with 19 percent stating the event was not convenient and 15 percent stated it was hard to get there. 
Additionally, there were 14 percent stating there were other reasons which, overwhelmingly, stated they 
DRAFT
Additionally, there were 14 percent stating there were other reasons which, overwhelmingly, stated they 
had no knowledge of events or that there was no effective advertising regarding the event.
DRAFT
had no knowledge of events or that there was no effective advertising regarding the event.
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
25%
DRAFT
25%
24%
DRAFT
24%
27%
DRAFT
27%27%
DRAFT
27%
20%
DRAFT
20%
5%
DRAFT
5%
10% 15% 20% 25% 30%
DRAFT
10% 15% 20% 25% 30%
How often do you participate in community events in 
DRAFT
How often do you participate in community events in 
DRAFTDRAFT
0%
DRAFT
0%
Nothing of interest
DRAFT
Nothing of interest
Too busy
DRAFT
Too busy
Not convenient
DRAFT
Not convenient
Hard to get there
DRAFT
Hard to get there
If you don’t participate in community events in 
DRAFT
If you don’t participate in community events in 
Kearns, what are some of the reasons why not
DRAFT
Kearns, what are some of the reasons why not
N=79
DRAFT
N=79
23
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
 
 
We also asked resident to tell what types of activities would they participate in if they were available in 
Kearns? There was strong support to have an art element be a part of the new Kearns Campus. 
Additionally, music event/concerts were also suggested along with sports/game activities and a farmer’s 
market. 
 
 
Overall, 80 percent of respondents have visited the Kearns Library in the last 18 months, and 42 percent 
visited another library. Additionally, 64 percent have visited retail shops located near 5400 South and 
4100 West.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
80%
42%
3%
6%
64%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Kearns Library
Another Library
Head Start
Salt Lake County Child Care
Stores and shops at 54th S 41st W
Have you visited the following in the last 12 months? 
N=146
Appendix B
DRAFT
participate in if they were available in 
DRAFT
participate in if they were available in 
There was strong support to have an art element be a part of the new Kearns Campus. 
DRAFT
There was strong support to have an art element be a part of the new Kearns Campus. 
Additionally, music event/concerts were also suggested along with sports/game activities and a farmer’s 
DRAFT
Additionally, music event/concerts were also suggested along with sports/game activities and a farmer’s 
Overall, 80 percent of respondents have visited the Kearns Library in the last 18 months, and 42 percent 
DRAFT
Overall, 80 percent of respondents have visited the Kearns Library in the last 18 months, and 42 percent 
visited another library. Additionally, 64 percent have visited retail shops located near 5400 South and 
DRAFT
visited another library. Additionally, 64 percent have visited retail shops located near 5400 South and 
DRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns Library
DRAFT
Kearns Library
Another Library
DRAFT
Another Library
Salt Lake County Child Care
DRAFT
Salt Lake County Child Care
Stores and shops at 54th S 41st W
DRAFT
Stores and shops at 54th S 41st W
Have you visited the following in the last 12 months? 
DRAFT
Have you visited the following in the last 12 months? 
N=146
DRAFT
N=146
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
24
 
 
We asked what amenities should be more available in Kearns? Over 60 percent stated they would like to 
see more parks in the community. 53 percent want to see more plazas/spaces for community events. There 
was strong support for more pedestrian/bicycle trails, with 49 percent, while 48 percent want to see more 
places to relax and rest. There was an even support, 47 percent, for more cross walk and places for local 
music performance. It is important to mention, while surveying school-aged children, most had mentioned 
they had a near miss with a car in recent memory when crossing 5400 South. Additionally, 42 percent of 
respondents wanted to see more meeting space for community groups.  
 
 
 
Who Took the Survey 
One of our goals with the public outreach was to have a survey sample which was representative of the 
diversity of the Kearns residents. We compared the Gender, Age, Household Size, and Race/Ethnicity 
makeup of Kearns from the survey sample to that of the US Census, American Community Survey 2015 
5-year average  
 
Our surveys were administered in-person, during events which took place within Kearns. Overall, 70 
percent of respondents lived in Kearns, while the remaining 30 percent were visitors to Kearns.  
 
49%
47%
47%
53%
48%
42%
61%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70%
Pedestrian/Bicycle Trails
Cross walks
A place for local
children/musicians/others to perform
A plaza for community events
A place to rest, relax and read the
paper, etc.
Meeting space for community groups
Parks
What amenities do you think should be available or more 
available in Kearns?
N=146
70%
30%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Yes
No
Do you live in Kearns
N=146
Appendix B
DRAFT
aged children, most had m
DRAFT
aged children, most had m
they had a near miss with a car in recent memory when crossing 5400 South. Additionally, 42 percent of 
DRAFT
they had a near miss with a car in recent memory when crossing 5400 South. Additionally, 42 percent of 
Who Took the Survey
DRAFT
Who Took the Survey
One of our goals with the public outreach was to have a survey sample which was representative of the 
DRAFT
One of our goals with the public outreach was to have a survey sample which was representative of the 
diversity of the Kearns residents. We compared the Gender, Age, Household Size, and Race/Ethnicity 
DRAFT
diversity of the Kearns residents. We compared the Gender, Age, Household Size, and Race/Ethnicity 
makeup of Kearns from the survey sample to that of the US Census, American Community Survey 2015 
DRAFT
makeup of Kearns from the survey sample to that of the US Census, American Community Survey 2015 
year ave
DRAFT
year average  
DRAFT
rage  
Our surveys were administered
DRAFT
Our surveys were administered in
DRAFT
in-
DRAFT
-person, during events which took place within Kearns. Overall, 70 
DRAFT
person, during events which took place within Kearns. Overall, 70 
percent of respondents lived in Kearns, while the remaining 30 percent were visitors to Kearns. 
DRAFT
percent of respondents lived in Kearns, while the remaining 30 percent were visitors to Kearns. 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
49%
DRAFT
49%
47%
DRAFT
47%47%
DRAFT
47%
47%
DRAFT
47%47%
DRAFT
47%
53%
DRAFT
53%53%
DRAFT
53%
48%
DRAFT
48%
42%
DRAFT
42%42%
DRAFT
42%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70%
DRAFT
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70%
A plaza for community events
DRAFT
A plaza for community events
A place to rest, relax and read the
DRAFT
A place to rest, relax and read the
Meeting space for community groups
DRAFT
Meeting space for community groups
Parks
DRAFT
Parks
DRAFT
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
DRAFT
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Do you live in Kearns
DRAFT
Do you live in Kearns
25
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For those residents living in Kearns, 50 percent stated that they have lived in Kearns for more than 11 
years, while there were 17 percent stating they have been in the community between 6 to 10 years, 25 
percent stated they have lived in the community between 1 to 5 years, and 8 percent of the respondents 
have been in the community for less than one year.  
 
When comparing the racial/ethnic makeup of respondents to Kearns overall, we were able to stay within 
the US Census data margin of error. With the exception of those who identified as Hispanic, were able to 
stay within the margin of error. Overall, most of the respondents identified as White, 16 percent identified 
as Hispanic, and 9 percent of the respondents identified as Asian/Pacific Islander. 
 
The gender split of the survey respondents was also within the Census margin of error. More respondents 
identified as female. However, the split was only 10 percent.  
8%
25%
17%
50%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60%
Under 1 year
1-5 years
6-10 years
11 + years
How long have you lived in Kearns
N=101
67%
1%
9%
1%
16%
3%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
White
African American
Asian/Pacific Islander
Native American/Native Alaskan
Hispanic
Other
Race/Ethnicity
Survey 2015 US Census EstimatesN=146 N=146
Appendix B
DRAFT
to Kearns
DRAFT
to Kearns overall
DRAFT
 overall, 
DRAFT
, we were able to stay within 
DRAFT
we were able to stay within 
exception of those who identified as Hispanic, were able to 
DRAFT
exception of those who identified as Hispanic, were able to 
stay within the margin of error. Overall, most of the respondents identified as White, 16 percent identified 
DRAFT
stay within the margin of error. Overall, most of the respondents identified as White, 16 percent identified 
as Hispanic, and 9 percent of the respondents identified as Asian/Pacific Islander.
DRAFT
as Hispanic, and 9 percent of the respondents identified as Asian/Pacific Islander.
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
50%
DRAFT
50%
DRAFTDRAFT
he gender split of the survey respondents was also within the Census margin of error. More respondents 
DRAFT
he gender split of the survey respondents was also within the Census margin of error. More respondents 
identified as female. However, the split was only 10 percent. 
DRAFT
identified as female. However, the split was only 10 percent. 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
67%
DRAFT
67%67%
DRAFT
67%
1%
DRAFT
1%
9%
DRAFT
9%
1%
DRAFT
1%
16%
DRAFT
16%16%
DRAFT
16%
3%
DRAFT
3%3%
DRAFT
3%
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
DRAFT
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Asian/Pacific Islander
DRAFT
Asian/Pacific Islander
Native American/Native Alaskan
DRAFT
Native American/Native Alaskan
Hispanic
DRAFT
Hispanic
Other
DRAFT
Other
DRAFT
Survey
DRAFT
Survey
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
26  
 
 
 
Regarding age, were oversampled those between the age of 35 to 65+. There were 38 percent of 
respondents that identified their age to be between 35 and 54 years, while 22 percent were under the 
age of 18.  
 
We oversampled those households which had 4 or more people and under sampled those with just one 
person living in them. Majority of the respondents had four or more individuals in them.  
 
 
There were 29 percent of responds which had three or more children under the age of 18 in the 
households, 28 percent had two, while 16 percent had one. Just over 25 percent had no children under 
the age of 18 living in the household. 
45%
55%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Male
Female
Gender
Survey 2015 US Census Estimates
N=146 N=146
22%
6%
12%
38%
9%
13%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50%
Under 18
18-24
25-34
35-54
55-64
65+
Age
Survey 2015 US Census EstimatesN=146 N=146
3%
18%
11%
67%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
One
Two
Three
Four +
Household Size
Survey 2015 US Census Estimates
N=146 N=146
Appendix B
DRAFT
Regarding age, were oversampled those between the age of 35 to 65+. There were 38 percent of 
DRAFT
Regarding age, were oversampled those between the age of 35 to 65+. There were 38 percent of 
respondents that identified their age to be between 35 and 54 years, while 22 percent were under the 
DRAFT
respondents that identified their age to be between 35 and 54 years, while 22 percent were under the 
We oversampled those households which had 4 or more people and under sampled those with just one 
DRAFT
We oversampled those households which had 4 or more people and under sampled those with just one 
person living in them. Majority of the respondents had four or more individuals in them. 
DRAFT
person living in them. Majority of the respondents had four or more individuals in them. 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
22%
DRAFT
22%22%
DRAFT
22%22%
DRAFT
22%
6%
DRAFT
6%6%
DRAFT
6%6%
DRAFT
6%6%
DRAFT
6%
12%
DRAFT
12%12%
DRAFT
12%12%
DRAFT
12%
38%
DRAFT
38%
9%
DRAFT
9%
13%
DRAFT
13%
10%
DRAFT
10% 20% 30% 40% 50%
DRAFT
20% 30% 40% 50%
35-54
DRAFT
35-54
55-64
DRAFT
55-64
65+
DRAFT
65+
DRAFT
Survey
DRAFT
Survey
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates
DRAFT
2015 US Census EstimatesN=146 N=146
DRAFT
N=146 N=146
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
3%
DRAFT
3%3%
DRAFT
3%3%
DRAFT
3%
0% 20% 40% 60%
DRAFT
0% 20% 40% 60%
One
DRAFT
One
Two
DRAFT
Two
Three
DRAFT
Three
Four +
DRAFT
Four +
Household Size
DRAFT
Household Size
27
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were 76 percent of households which claimed there were no persons over the age of 65 living with 
them. Additionally, there was an even split between those who had one two people in the household with 
the age of 65 or older, and 3 percent had three or more people  
 
There were 87 percent of respondents stating there were no disabled individuals in the households, while 
8 percent stated there was one person, and 5 percent stated there were two.  
 
 
  
26%
16%
28%
29%
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35%
Zero
One
Two
Three +
# of children under 18 in Household
N=146
76%
10%
10%
3%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Zero
One
Two
Three +
# of individuals over 65 in Household
N=146
87%
8%
5%
0%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Zero
One
Two
Three +
# of disabled individuals in Household
N=146
Appendix B
DRAFT
which claimed there were no 
DRAFT
which claimed there were no persons 
DRAFT
persons over the 
DRAFT
over the age of 65 living with 
DRAFT
age of 65 living with 
Additionally, there was an even split between those who had one two people in the household with 
DRAFT
Additionally, there was an even split between those who had one two people in the household with 
the age of 65 or older, and 3 percent had three or more people 
DRAFT
the age of 65 or older, and 3 percent had three or more people 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
28%
DRAFT
28%28%
DRAFT
28%
29%
DRAFT
29%
DRAFTDRAFT
There were 87 percent of respondents stating there were no disabled individuals in the households, while 
DRAFT
There were 87 percent of respondents stating there were no disabled individuals in the households, while 
8 percent stated there was one person, and 5 percent stated there were two. 
DRAFT
8 percent stated there was one person, and 5 percent stated there were two. 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
10%
DRAFT
10%
10%
DRAFT
10%
3%
DRAFT
3%
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
DRAFT
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Zero
DRAFT
Zero
One
DRAFT
One
Two
DRAFT
Two
Three +
DRAFT
Three +
# of individuals over 65 in Household
DRAFT
# of individuals over 65 in Household
N=146
DRAFT
N=146
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
DRAFT
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Zero
DRAFT
Zero
One
DRAFT
One
# of disabled individuals in Household
DRAFT
# of disabled individuals in Household
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
28 Appendix B
 
 
Appendix A 
Kearns Community Campus 
Survey #1 
 
1. The Healthy Kearns Committee is planning a new community campus somewhere near 
5400 South and 4100 West.  The Campus is intended to be walkable and welcoming. 
What of the following would you like to see included in this new Campus area? 
o Library 
o YMCA Center 
o Senior Center 
o Food Pantry 
o Head Start program 
o County-run daycare program 
o Meeting spaces 
o Public plaza 
o Green space 
o Play areas 
o Bicycle and walking trails 
o UPD sub station 
o Coffee shops 
o Sandwich shops 
o Taco stands/shops 
o Full service restaurants 
o Other _____________________________________________ 
 
2. What are the most important ideas to consider in the design of the new Campus? 
o Gathering Place 
o Healthy 
o Diversity 
o Community history 
o Connections to the rest of Kearns 
o Connections between businesses and residents 
o Learning 
DRAFT
The Healthy Kearns Committee is planning a new community campus somewhere near 
DRAFT
The Healthy Kearns Committee is planning a new community campus somewhere near 
5400 South and 4100 West.  The Campus is intended to be walkable and welcoming. 
DRAFT
5400 South and 4100 West.  The Campus is intended to be walkable and welcoming. 
What of the following would you like to see included in this new Campus area? 
DRAFT
What of the following would you like to see included in this new Campus area? 
County-run daycare program 
DRAFT
County-run daycare program 
Green space
DRAFT
Green space
Play areas
DRAFT
Play areas
Bicycle and walking trails
DRAFT
Bicycle and walking trails
UPD sub station 
DRAFT
UPD sub station 
o
DRAFT
o Coffee shops 
DRAFT
Coffee shops 
o
DRAFT
o Sandwich shops
DRAFT
Sandwich shops
o
DRAFT
o Taco stands/shops 
DRAFT
Taco stands/shops 
o
DRAFT
o Full service restaurants 
DRAFT
Full service restaurants 
o
DRAFT
o Other ___________________________________
DRAFT
Other ___________________________________
2.
DRAFT
2. What are the most important 
DRAFT
What are the most important 
o
DRAFT
o Gathering Place
DRAFT
Gathering Place
o
DRAFT
o Healthy 
DRAFT
Healthy 
oDRAFTo Diversity 
DRAFT
Diversity 
29
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix B
 
 
o Enrichment 
o Art 
o All ages 
 
3. How often do you participate in community events in Kearns? (Choose one) 
o Very often 
o Often 
o Somewhat often 
o Not so often 
o Not at all often 
 
4. If you don’t participate in community events in Kearns, what are some of the reasons 
why not? (Choose all that apply) 
o Nothing of interest 
o Too busy 
o Not convenient 
o Hard to get there 
o Other (please specify)  
________________________________________________ 
 
5. What types of activities would you participate in if they were available in Kearns? 
 
6. Have you visited the following in the last 12 months? (Choose all that apply) 
o Kearns Library 
o Another Library 
o Head Start 
o Salt Lake County Child Care 
o Stores and shops at 5400 South 4100 West 
 
DRAFT
How often do you participate in community events in Kearns? (Choose one) 
DRAFT
How often do you participate in community events in Kearns? (Choose one) 
If you don’t participate in community events in Kearns, what are some of the reasons 
DRAFT
If you don’t participate in community events in Kearns, what are some of the reasons 
why not? (Choose all that apply) 
DRAFT
why not? (Choose all that apply) 
Nothing of int
DRAFT
Nothing of interest
DRAFT
erest
Too busy 
DRAFT
Too busy 
Not convenient 
DRAFT
Not convenient 
Hard to get there 
DRAFT
Hard to get there 
o
DRAFT
o Other (please specify)  
DRAFT
Other (please specify)  
________________________________________________
DRAFT
________________________________________________
5.
DRAFT
5. What types of activities would you participate in if they were available in Kearns? 
DRAFT
What types of activities would you participate in if they were available in Kearns? 
Have you visited the following in the last 12 months? (Choose all that apply) 
DRAFT
Have you visited the following in the last 12 months? (Choose all that apply) 
oDRAFToDRAFTDRAFT
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
30 Appendix B
 
 
7. What amenities do you think should be available or more available in Kearns? (Choose 
all that apply) 
o Pedestrian/Bicycle Trails 
o Cross walks 
o A place for local children/musicians/others to perform 
o A plaza for community events 
o A place to rest, relax and read the paper, etc. 
o Meeting space for community groups 
o Parks 
o Different shops and stores such as: 
__________________________________________ 
o Other (please specify) 
_____________________________________________________ 
 
8. Please tell us about yourself. Gender: 
o Male 
o Female 
o Choose not to say 
 
9. Age 
o Under 18 
o 18-24 
o 25-34 
o 34-54 
o 55-64 
o 65+ 
 
10. Race/Ethnicity (please choose all that apply for you personally) 
o White 
o African American 
o Asian/Pacific Islander 
o Native American/Native Alaskan 
o Hispanic 
DRAFT
What amenities do you think should be available or more available in Kearns? (Choose 
DRAFT
What amenities do you think should be available or more available in Kearns? (Choose 
A place for local children/musicians/others to perform 
DRAFT
A place for local children/musicians/others to perform 
A place to rest, relax and read the paper, etc. 
DRAFT
A place to rest, relax and read the paper, etc. 
Meeting space for community groups
DRAFT
Meeting space for community groups
Different shops and stores such as: 
DRAFT
Different shops and stores such as: 
__________________________________________
DRAFT
__________________________________________
Other (please specify) 
DRAFT
Other (please specify) 
_____________________________________________________
DRAFT
_____________________________________________________
Please tell us about yourself. Gender: 
DRAFT
Please tell us about yourself. Gender: 
Female
DRAFT
Female
Choose not to say 
DRAFT
Choose not to say 
Age 
DRAFT
Age 
o
DRAFT
o Under 18 
DRAFT
Under 18 
o
DRAFT
o 18
DRAFT
18-24 
DRAFT
-24 
o
DRAFT
o 25-
DRAFT
25-34
DRAFT
34
o
DRAFT
o 34
DRAFT
34-
DRAFT
-54
DRAFT
54
o
DRAFT
o 55
DRAFT
55-
DRAFT
-64
DRAFT
64
o
DRAFT
o 65+
DRAFT
65+
Race/Ethnicity (please choose all that apply for you personally) 
DRAFT
Race/Ethnicity (please choose all that apply for you personally) 
oDRAFTo White
DRAFT
White
31
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix B
 
 
o Other 
o Choose not to say 
 
 
11. Do you live in Kearns? 
o Yes 
o No 
 
12. If yes, how long have you lived in Kearns? 
o Under 1 year 
o 1-5 years 
o 6-10 years 
o 11 + years 
 
13. How many people in your household? 
o One 
o Two 
o Three 
o Four + 
 
14. How many children under 18 live with you in your household? 
o Zero 
o One 
o Two 
o Three + 
 
15. How many individuals 65+ live with you in your household (including yourself if 
applicable)? 
o Zero 
o One 
o Two 
o Three + 
 
16. How many disabled individuals live with you in your household (including yourself if 
applicable)? 
DRAFT
How many people in your household? 
DRAFT
How many people in your household? 
Three 
DRAFT
Three 
o
DRAFT
o Four +
DRAFT
Four +
How many children under 18 live with you in your household? 
DRAFT
How many children under 18 live with you in your household? 
o
DRAFT
o Zero
DRAFT
Zero
o
DRAFT
o One 
DRAFT
One 
o
DRAFT
o Two 
DRAFT
Two 
o
DRAFT
o Three + 
DRAFT
Three + 
15.
DRAFT
15. How many individuals 65+ live with you in your household (including yourself if 
DRAFT
How many individuals 65+ live with you in your household (including yourself if 
applicable)?
DRAFT
applicable)?
o
DRAFT
o Zero
DRAFT
Zero
oDRAFTo
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
32
 
 
o Zero 
o One 
o Two 
o Three + 
 
 
17. Would you like to receive project updates and invites to open houses and other 
meetings? If yes, please provide your email or mailing address. 
Preferred Method: Email   Regular Mail 
Email Address: 
____________________________________________________________  
 
Mailing Address: _________________________________________________ 
   _________________________________________________ 
               _________________________________________________ 
  
DRAFT
Would you like to receive project updates and invites to open houses and other 
DRAFT
Would you like to receive project updates and invites to open houses and other 
meetings? If yes, please provide your email or 
DRAFT
meetings? If yes, please provide your email or mailing address.
DRAFT
mailing address.
   Regular Mail 
DRAFT
   Regular Mail 
____________________________________________________________
DRAFT
____________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________
DRAFT
_________________________________________________
_________________________________________________
DRAFT
_________________________________________________
            
DRAFT
            _________________________________________________
DRAFT
_________________________________________________
33
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
 
 
Appendix B 
Question 1 Other What of the following would you like to see included in this new Campus area? 
Shopping Center 
Movie Theater 
Farmers Market  
New pool/rec center 
Wifi Hotspot 
Place to make art 
Pizza Places 
Dog Park 
parking  
Zumba  
Museum 
 
Question 4 Other
 If you don ’t participate in community events in Kearns, what are some of the reasons 
why not 
Age 
No Advertising 
No Advertising 
No Advertising 
No Advertising 
No Advertising 
No Advertising 
No Advertising 
No Advertising 
Time 
 
What types of activities would you participate in if they were available in Kearns? 
A nice place 
Activities 
Anything 
Art 
Art 
Art 
Art 
Art 
Art 
Art 
exhibits. 
Art 
Crafts 
Beer tasting 
Block Party 
Book Clubs 
Coffee 
Community Events 
Community Garden 
Community Unity 
Concerts 
DRAFT
What of the following would you like to see included in this new Campus area?
DRAFT
What of the following would you like to see included in this new Campus area?
t participate in community events in Kearns, what are some of the reasons 
DRAFT
t participate in community events in Kearns, what are some of the reasons 
What types of activities would you participate in if they were available in Kearns?
DRAFT
What types of activities would you participate in if they were available in Kearns?
A nice place
DRAFT
A nice place
Activities 
DRAFT
Activities 
Anything 
DRAFT
Anything 
Art
DRAFT
Art
Art
DRAFT
Art
Art
DRAFT
Art
Art
DRAFT
Art
Art
DRAFT
Art
Art
DRAFT
Art
Art
DRAFT
Art
exhibits. 
DRAFT
exhibits. 
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
34  
 
Cultural events 
education on law 
Educational Activities 
Educational Activities 
Enrichment 
Fairs 
Family Activities 
Family Activities 
Family Venues 
Family Venues 
Farmers Market 
Farmers Market 
Farmers Market 
Farmers Market 
Farmers Market 
Festivals 
Festivals 
Financial Classes 
Food 
food festival 
Free Activities 
fun 
Fundraisers 
Games 
Games 
Games 
History 
ice cream shop 
Increase Tax base 
Kids Activities 
Mom Meetup 
More stuff to do  
More Walkable 
Movies 
Movies  
Movies  
Music 
Music 
Music 
Concerts 
Nature 
Outdoor Activities 
Outdoors 
Petting Zoo 
Physical Activities 
Physical Activities 
Relaxing 
Skate Park 
concerts 
 
 
concerts 
Soccer 
Soccer 
Sports 
Sports 
Sports 
Sports 
Sports 
Sports 
Toddler Activities 
Water 
Water 
Yoga 
 
Question 7 Other: Other stores such as 
Barbershop 
game stop 
ice cream shop 
book store 
New Stores 
Smith's 
Better clothing stores 
Restaurants 
Asian store 
Game Shop 
Hot topic 
Local Owned 
Starbucks 
Walmart 
Ross 
Target 
 
Appendix B
DRAFT
ice cream shop
DRAFT
ice cream shop
Increase Tax base
DRAFT
Increase Tax base
Activities
DRAFT
Activities
Mom Meetup
DRAFT
Mom Meetup
More stuff to do
DRAFT
More stuff to do  
DRAFT
  
More Walkable 
DRAFT
More Walkable 
Movies 
DRAFT
Movies 
Movies  
DRAFT
Movies  
Movies  
DRAFT
Movies  
Music 
DRAFT
Music 
Music 
DRAFT
Music 
Music 
DRAFT
Music 
Concerts 
DRAFT
Concerts 
Nature 
DRAFT
Nature 
Outdoor Activities 
DRAFT
Outdoor Activities 
Outdoors 
DRAFT
Outdoors 
Petting Zoo
DRAFT
Petting Zoo
Physical Activities 
DRAFT
Physical Activities 
Physical Activities DRAFTPhysical Activities 
Question 7 Other: Other stores such as
DRAFT
Question 7 Other: Other stores such as
Barbershop 
DRAFT
Barbershop 
game stop
DRAFT
game stop
ice cream shop
DRAFT
ice cream shop
book store
DRAFT
book store
New Stores
DRAFT
New Stores
Smith's 
DRAFT
Smith's 
Better clothing stores
DRAFT
Better clothing stores
Restaurants 
DRAFT
Restaurants 
Asian store
DRAFT
Asian store
Game Shop
DRAFT
Game Shop
Hot topic
DRAFT
Hot topic
Local Owned
DRAFT
Local Owned
Starbucks 
DRAFT
Starbucks 
Walmart 
DRAFT
Walmart 
Ross 
DRAFT
Ross 
Target 
DRAFT
Target 
35
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix C
Kearns City Center 
Kearns City Center 
–
–
 Re
Re
Re
-
Re
-
kickoff
Public Open House August 2, 2018
Kearns City Center 
Kearns City Center 
–
–
 Where Have We Been?
• Original Kick-Off August 2016
• Project Purpose
– Create a plan for an approximately 7 acre area in 
the vicinity of 5400 South and 4015 West in 
Kearns
– Incorporate a newly rebuilt Kearns Library 
– Include a new Utah Community Action Facility
– Meet community needs for public space and 
shopping
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
Where Have We Been?
DRAFT
Where Have We Been?
Original Kick
DRAFT
Original Kick-
DRAFT
-Off August 2016
DRAFT
Off August 2016
Project Purpose
DRAFT
Project Purpose
–
DRAFT
– Create a plan for an approximately 7 acre area in 
DRAFT
Create a plan for an approximately 7 acre area in 
the vicinity of 5400 South and 4015 West in 
DRAFT
the vicinity of 5400 South and 4015 West in 
DRAFT
Kearns
DRAFT
Kearns
–
DRAFT
– Incorporate a newly rebuilt Kearns Library 
DRAFT
Incorporate a newly rebuilt Kearns Library 
Include a new Utah Community Action Facility
DRAFT
Include a new Utah Community Action Facility
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
36 Appendix C
Kearns City Center 
Kearns City Center 
–
–
 Where Have We Been?
• Public meetings and open houses
Kearns City Center 
Kearns City Center 
–
–
 Where Have We Been?
• Created a Vision Statement
• Gathered Ideas
– Survey
– Charrette
• Healthy Kearns meetings
• Stakeholder meetings
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
Where Have We Been?
DRAFT
Where Have We Been?
Where Have We Been?
DRAFT
Where Have We Been?
Created a Vision Statement
DRAFT
Created a Vision Statement
Gathered Ideas
DRAFT
Gathered Ideas
–
DRAFT
– Survey
DRAFT
Survey
–
DRAFT
– Charrette
DRAFT
Charrette
•
DRAFT
•
DRAFT
Healthy Kearns meetings
DRAFT
Healthy Kearns meetings
Stakeholder meetings
DRAFT
Stakeholder meetings
37
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix C
Kearns City Center 
Kearns City Center 
–
–
 Draft Vision Statement
Kearns City Center
SURVEY RESULTS
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
SURVEY RESULTS
DRAFT
SURVEY RESULTS
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
38 Appendix C
Who Responded?
0% 10% 20% 30% 40%
Under 18
18-24
25-34
35-54
55-64
65+
Age
Survey 2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 10%)N=146 N=146
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
One
Two
Three
Four +
Household Size
Survey 2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 16%)
N=146 N=146
0% 20% 40% 60%
Male
Female
Gender
Survey 2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 11%)
N=146 N=146
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
White
African American
Asian/Pacific Islander
Native American/Native…
Hispanic
Other
Race/Ethnicity
Survey 2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 10% to 40%)N=146 N=146
Participation
0% 10% 20% 30%
Very often
Often
Somewhat often
Not so often
Not at all often
How often do you participate in community 
events in Kearns? 
N=146
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Kearns Library
Another Library
Head Start
Salt Lake County Child Care
Stores and shops at 54th S 41st W
Have you visited the following in the last 12 months? 
N=146
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 16%)
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 16%)
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
0%
DRAFT
0% 20% 40% 60%
DRAFT
20% 40% 60%
Male
DRAFT
Male
Female
DRAFT
Female
Gender
DRAFT
Gender
DRAFT
Survey
DRAFT
Survey
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 11%)
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 11%)
N=146 N=146
DRAFT
N=146 N=146
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 10% to 40%)
DRAFT
2015 US Census Estimates (MOE 10% to 40%)
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
0% 10% 20% 30%
DRAFT
0% 10% 20% 30%
Very often
DRAFT
Very often
Often
DRAFT
Often
Somewhat often
DRAFT
Somewhat often
Not so often
DRAFT
Not so often
Not at all often
DRAFT
Not at all often
How often do you participate in community 
DRAFT
How often do you participate in community 
events in Kearns? 
DRAFT
events in Kearns? 
N=146
DRAFT
N=146
39
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix C
Other responses
Why aren’t they participating
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
Nothing of interest
Too busy
Not convenient
Hard to get there
Other
If you don’t participate in community events in Kearns, what are 
some of the reasons why not
N=146
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
DRAFT
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
40 Appendix C
What types of activities would you participate in 
if they were available in Kearns?
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Library
YMCA Center
Senior Center
Food Pantry
Head Start program
County-run daycare program
Meeting spaces
Public plaza
Green space
Play areas
Bicycle and walking trails
UPD sub station
Coffee shops
Sandwich shops
Taco stands/shops
Full service restaurants
Other
What of the following would you like to see included 
in this new Campus area?
N=146
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
0%
DRAFT
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
DRAFT
20% 40% 60% 80%
Library
DRAFT
Library
YMCA Center
DRAFT
YMCA Center
Senior Center
DRAFT
Senior Center
Food Pantry
DRAFT
Food Pantry
Head Start program
DRAFT
Head Start program
County-run daycare program
DRAFT
County-run daycare program
Meeting spaces
DRAFT
Meeting spaces
Public plaza
DRAFT
Public plaza
Bicycle and walking trails
DRAFT
Bicycle and walking trails
What of the following would you like to see included 
DRAFT
What of the following would you like to see included 
in this new Campus area?
DRAFT
in this new Campus area?
41
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix C
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Gathering Place
Healthy
Diversity
Community history
Connections to the rest of Kearns
Connections between businesses+residents
Learning
Enrichment
Art
All ages
What are the most important ideas to consider in the design of the 
new Campus?
N=14
6
0% 20% 40% 60% 80%
Pedestrian/Bicycle Trails
Cross walks
A place for local children/musicians/others to
perform
A plaza for community events
A place to rest, relax and read the paper, etc.
Meeting space for community groups
Parks
What amenities do you think should be available or more available 
in Kearns?
N=146
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
20% 40% 60% 80%
DRAFT
20% 40% 60% 80%
Art
DRAFT
Art
All ages
DRAFT
All ages
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
0% 20%
DRAFT
0% 20%
Pedestrian/Bicycle Trails
DRAFT
Pedestrian/Bicycle Trails
Cross walks
DRAFT
Cross walks
A place for local children/musicians/others to
DRAFT
A place for local children/musicians/others to
perform
DRAFT
perform
A plaza for community events
DRAFT
A plaza for community events
A place to rest, relax and read the paper, etc.
DRAFT
A place to rest, relax and read the paper, etc.
What amenities do you think should be available or more available 
DRAFT
What amenities do you think should be available or more available 
in Kearns?
DRAFT
in Kearns?
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
42
Kearns City Center
Charrette Ideas
Kearns City Center
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT

43
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns City Center
Initial Concepts
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
44
 Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT

45
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
46
 Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

47
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
48
 Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

49
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns City Center
Preferences
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns City Center
DRAFT
Kearns City Center

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
50
Kearns City Center
• “Sticker” exercise
• Hybrid of “Civic Plaza” and “Civic Street” 
preferred
Kearns City Center
Kearns City Center
Kearns City Center
–
–
 Where Are We Today?
• Library property purchased
• Library in design
• Utah Community Action property purchased
• Utah Community Acton facility in design
• Opportunity to identify preferences for:
– Location of Unified Police facility
– Location and configuration of pedestrian, bicycle, 
transit and car access/circulation
– Location and configuration of public spaces
– Urban design concepts for private development
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
Where Are We Today?
DRAFT
Where Are We Today?
Where Are We Today?
DRAFT
Where Are We Today?
Library property purchased
DRAFT
Library property purchased
Library in design
DRAFT
Library in design
•
DRAFT
• Utah Community Action property purchased
DRAFT
Utah Community Action property purchased
•
DRAFT
• Utah Community Acton facility in design
DRAFT
Utah Community Acton facility in design
•
DRAFT
•
DRAFT
Opportunity to identify preferences for:
DRAFT
Opportunity to identify preferences for:
–
DRAFT
– Location of Unified Police facility
DRAFT
Location of Unified Police facility
Location and configuration of pedestrian, bicycle, 
DRAFT
Location and configuration of pedestrian, bicycle, 
transit and car access/circulationDRAFTtransit and car access/circulation
51
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns City Center
Overview
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
52
REPLACE
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT

53
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns City Center
Connectivity
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
54
 Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT

55
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns City Center
Public Space
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
56
Kearns City Center
Urban Design
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns City Center
DRAFT
Kearns City Center

57
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Urban Design Elements – Size & Scale
Urban Design Elements – Materials & Style
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
Urban Design Elements 
DRAFT
Urban Design Elements –
DRAFT
–
DRAFTDRAFT
Materials & Style
DRAFT
Materials & Style
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
58
Urban Design Elements – Layout & Walkability
Urban Design Elements – Signage & Wayfinding
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
Urban Design Elements 
DRAFT
Urban Design Elements –
DRAFT
–
DRAFTDRAFT
Signage & Wayfinding
DRAFT
Signage & Wayfinding
DRAFT
DRAFT

59
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns City Center
What Do YOU Think?
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns City Center
DRAFT
Kearns City Center
What Do YOU Think?
DRAFT
What Do YOU Think?
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
60
Slco.org\municipal-economic-
development
Current UPD Leased Space
Redevelopment Area
Kearns TC Project Area
Parcels
L EGEND
KEAR NS TO WN C ENTER P ROJECT AREA
0 0.1 0.20.05 Miles
1:100
N
N


Y:\Archiplex Projects\UCA (Utah Community Action)\Magna Head Start\CAD\Images\size_550x415_UtahCommunityAction_Logo_BLACKANDWHITE.png
PLANNED
LIBRARY
PLANNED UCAP
Appendix C
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
R
DRAFT
R NS
DRAFT
NS  TO
DRAFT
 TO WN
DRAFT
WN  C
DRAFT
 C ENTE
DRAFT
ENTE R 
DRAFT
R P
DRAFT
P RO
DRAFT
RO JE
DRAFT
JE CT AREA
DRAFT
CT AREA
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
PLANNED
DRAFT
PLANNED
LIBRARY
DRAFT
LIBRARY

61
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix D
Kearns Town Center Survey
1. In 2016 community members identified the following vision
statement for the planning area:
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
62 Appendix D
1. To what extent do you agree with this vision?
Mark only one oval.
12345
Not at all Strongly agree
CROSSING BARRIERS
2. The area surrounding the Town Center site has many
transportation barriers, especially for those on foot and bicycles –
including Bangerter Highway, Salt Lake Garfield and Western Rail
Line and 5400 South. The Town Center plan can set out strategies
to overcome these barriers to improve access for the surrounding
community.
Please indicate which of the treatments you prefer (check all that apply.)
2. Roadway crossings – at grade
Check all that apply.
 Pedestrian activated crossings  
  Median pedestrian refuges  
 High visibility crossings
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
2. The area surrounding the Town Center site has many
DRAFT
2. The area surrounding the Town Center site has many
transportation barriers, especially for those on foot and bicycles –
DRAFT
transportation barriers, especially for those on foot and bicycles –
including Bangerter Highway, Salt Lake Garfield and Western Rail
DRAFT
including Bangerter Highway, Salt Lake Garfield and Western Rail
Line and 5400 South. The Town Center plan can set out strategies
DRAFT
Line and 5400 South. The Town Center plan can set out strategies
to overcome these barriers to improve access for the surrounding
DRAFT
to overcome these barriers to improve access for the surrounding
Please indicate which of the treatments you prefer (check all that apply.)
DRAFT
Please indicate which of the treatments you prefer (check all that apply.)
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Pedestrian activated crossings
DRAFT
 Pedestrian activated crossings
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
63
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix D
3. Roadway crossings – grade separated
Check all that apply.
 Pedestrian/cyclist underpass  
  Pedestrian/cyclist bridges
4. Property barriers and street disconnection
Check all that apply.
 Cut-throughs between properties to connect streets
5. Other/Comments
 
 
 
 
 
STREETS AND STREETSCAPES
3. The Town Center can be the catalyst for transformation of
Kearns to a community with transportation choices. The Town
Center itself is an opportunity to provide the type of connectivity
and person-oriented environment that gets people out of their
cars: the plan can then guide implementation of bikeways,
sidewalks and streetscape improvements in the surrounding area
to create a comprehensively walkable and rideable urban fabric.
Please indicate which of the treatments you prefer (check all that apply.)
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Pedestrian/cyclist bridges
DRAFT
 Pedestrian/cyclist bridges
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Cut-throughs between properties to connect streets
DRAFT
 Cut-throughs between properties to connect streets
Other/Comments
DRAFT
Other/Comments
STREETS AND STREETSCAPES
DRAFT
STREETS AND STREETSCAPES
DRAFT
3. The Town Center can be the catalyst for transformation of
DRAFT
3. The Town Center can be the catalyst for transformation of
Kearns to a community with transportation choices. The Town
DRAFT
Kearns to a community with transportation choices. The Town
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
64 Appendix D
6. Internal Town Center streets
Check all that apply.
 Streets with wide sidewalks and pedestrian amenities 
 Shared/festival street – where cars are “guests” and can be closed for events
7. Multi-modal neighborhood streets
Check all that apply.
 Routes through the neighborhood to access the town center
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Shared/festival street – where cars are “guests” and can be closed for events
DRAFT
 Shared/festival street – where cars are “guests” and can be closed for events
Multi-modal neighborhood streets
DRAFT
Multi-modal neighborhood streets
Check all that apply.
DRAFT
Check all that apply.
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Routes through the neighborhood to access the town center
DRAFT
 Routes through the neighborhood to access the town center
DRAFT
65
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix D
8. Potential treatments for 5400 South
Check all that apply.
 Wide sidewalk with streetscape features  
  Special paving  
 Local access lane
9. Bikeways
Check all that apply.
 Bike Lanes  
  Turn lanes for bikes
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Special paving
DRAFT
 Special paving
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Local access lane
DRAFT
 Local access lane
Check all that apply.
DRAFT
Check all that apply.
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Bike Lanes
DRAFT
 Bike Lanes
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
66 Appendix D
10. Pedestrian pathways
Check all that apply.
 Pedestrian pathway
11. Streetscape amenities
Check all that apply.
 Wayfinding signs  
  Decorative lighting  
 Street furniture  
  Street trees
12. Other/Comments
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Wayfinding signs
DRAFT
 Wayfinding signs
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Decorative lighting
DRAFT
 Decorative lighting
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Street furniture
DRAFT
 Street furniture
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
Other/CommentsDRAFTOther/CommentsDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
67
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix D
COMMUNITY TRANSPORTATION HUB
4. A great town center is naturally a transportation hub. The Town
Center has the opportunity to carefully weave together transit
routes, bikeways, walking routes and vehicle access into a
meeting point, increasing transportation convenience and helping
to create an active gathering place.
Please indicate which of the treatments you prefer (check all that apply.)
13. Overall character
Check all that apply.
 Example 1  
  Example 2  
 Example 4  
  Example 5  
 Example 6
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
meeting point, increasing transportation convenience and helping
DRAFT
meeting point, increasing transportation convenience and helping
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Example 2
DRAFT
 Example 2
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Example 4
DRAFT
 Example 4
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
68 Appendix D
14. Transit Amenities
Check all that apply.
 Shelters  
  Seating  
 Real time transit information sign  
  Transit information map
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Seating
DRAFT
 Seating
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Real time transit information sign  
DRAFT
 Real time transit information sign  
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Transit information map
DRAFT
 Transit information map
DRAFT
69
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix D
15. Transportation Options
Check all that apply.
 UTA flex route circulator  
  Park and Ride  
 Kiss and ride (Pickup/dropoff area)
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Park and Ride
DRAFT
 Park and Ride
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Kiss and ride (Pickup/dropoff area)
DRAFT
 Kiss and ride (Pickup/dropoff area)
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
70 Appendix D
16. Community elements
Check all that apply.
 Retail kiosk - food, news, flowers, etc.  
  Integration with police station  
 Community celebration and information
17. Bike parking/storage
Check all that apply.
 Bike racks  
  Bike lockers
18. Other/Comments
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Integration with police station
DRAFT
 Integration with police station
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Community celebration and information
DRAFT
 Community celebration and information
Bike parking/storage
DRAFT
Bike parking/storage
Check all that apply.
DRAFT
Check all that apply.
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Bike racks
DRAFT
 Bike racks
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
71
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix D
PUBLIC SPACE
5. The Kearns Town Center will create a healthy gathering place
that is representative of the diverse community reflective of our
history, connects residents, business owners and visitors to each
other, and provides opportunities for learning and enrichment.
Please indicate which of the treatments you prefer (check all that apply.)
19. Plaza/square
Check all that apply.
 Open civic space  
  Diverse use gathering space  
 Flex space  
  Water feature
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
other, and provides opportunities for learning and enrichment.
DRAFT
other, and provides opportunities for learning and enrichment.
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Diverse use gathering space
DRAFT
 Diverse use gathering space
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Flex space
DRAFT
 Flex space
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
72 Appendix D
20. Community use spaces
Check all that apply.
 Community garden  
  Botanical garden  
 Performance space
21. Pocket park
Check all that apply.
 Destination  
  Connection space
22. Other/Comments
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Botanical garden
DRAFT
 Botanical garden
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Performance space
DRAFT
 Performance space
Pocket park
DRAFT
Pocket park
Check all that apply.
DRAFT
Check all that apply.
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Destination
DRAFT
 Destination
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
73
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix D
URBAN DESIGN GUIDELINES
6. The development of the Kearns Town Center provides the
opportunity to bring new commercial uses into the area. The plan
can guide the quality of new development through the area.
Please indicate which of the treatments you prefer (check all that apply.)
23. Size and scale
Check all that apply.
 Housing with ground floor retail  
  Single level retail  
 Mid-sized mixed use
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
 Housing with ground floor retail
DRAFT
 Housing with ground floor retail
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Single level retail
DRAFT
 Single level retail
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Mid-sized mixed use
DRAFT
 Mid-sized mixed use
DRAFTDRAFT
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
74 Appendix D
24. Layout and walkability
Check all that apply.
 Significant pedestrian elements/infrastructure 
  Pedestrian-centric design  
 Auto/pedestrian combination
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Pedestrian-centric design
DRAFT
 Pedestrian-centric design
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Auto/pedestrian combination
DRAFT
 Auto/pedestrian combination
75
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix D
25. Materials and style
Check all that apply.
 Strip mall/lifestyle/outlet center  
  Modern/sleek  
 Classic style/multi-use
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Modern/sleek
DRAFT
 Modern/sleek
DRAFT
DRAFT
 Classic style/multi-use
DRAFT
 Classic style/multi-use
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
76
Powered by
26. Signage and wayfinding
Check all that apply.
 Minimal wayfinding and signage  
  Substantial retail signage  
 Substantial wayfinding and signage
27. Other/Comments
 
 
 
 
 
28. Home Address (Optional)
29. Email (Optional)
Thank you for your time!
Appendix D
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Substantial retail signage
DRAFT
 Substantial retail signage
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
 Substantial wayfinding and signage
DRAFT
 Substantial wayfinding and signage
Other/Comments
DRAFT
Other/Comments
28. 
DRAFT
28. Home Address (Optional)
DRAFT
Home Address (Optional)
29. 
DRAFT
29. Email (Optional)
DRAFT
Email (Optional)
Thank you for your time!
DRAFT
Thank you for your time!
77
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix E
N
KEARNS TOWN CENTER LAND USE OPTIONS
4220 West
4120 West
5400 South
RESIDENTIAL
OFFICE&
RETAIL, OFFICE, &
   MUNICIPAL
RETAIL
RETAIL
RESIDENTIALRETAIL&
RESIDENTIAL
RETAIL&
RESIDENTIAL
0 0.1 0.20.05 Miles
NEW UCA
COMMUNITY
GATEWAY
1 I N : 100 F T
KEARNS JR HIGH
OQU IRRH  HILLS
ELEMENTARY
Developmen t plots
Major stre etscape improvement
Local access lane
Public spa ce, i.e. plaza
Pedestrian crossing improveme nts
ALTERNATIVE 1
N
Pedestrian access
New walkable street
Festival street conversion area
4220 West
4120 West
4015 West
103,000 SF
80,000 SF
98,394 SF
61,000 SF 58,500 SF 
27,000 SF
110,000 SF 116,000 SF20,000 SF
TRANSIT
CENTER
KEARNS TOWN CENTER PROJECT AREA
PLANNED
LIBRARY
5400 South
5,900 SF
UPD32
sp.
85,000 SF
40,000 SF
62,000 SF
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
4120 West
DRAFT
4120 West
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
4015 West
DRAFT
4015 West
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
RETAIL, OFFICE, &
DRAFT
RETAIL, OFFICE, &
   MUNICIPAL
DRAFT
   MUNICIPAL
RETAIL
DRAFT
RETAIL
RESIDENTIAL
DRAFT
RESIDENTIAL
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
KEA
DRAFT
KEA
 RN
DRAFT
RN
 S J
DRAFT
S J
 R H
DRAFT
R H
OQ
DRAFT
OQ
 U
DRAFT
U
IRR
DRAFT
IRR
ELEM
DRAFT
ELEM
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
32
DRAFT
32
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
78 Appendix E
NEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCANEW UCA
KEA
 RN
 S J
 R H
R H
 IGH
OQ
 U
IRR
 H
 HILL
 S
ELEM
 ENT
 AR
 Y
4220 West
4015 West
103,000 SF
103,000 SF
80,000 SF
80,000 SF
110,000 SF
110,000 SF
 116,000 SF
116,000 SF
5,900 SF
5,900 SF
UP D32
sp.
40,000 SF
40,000 SF
62,000 SF
62,000 SF
PLANNED 
LIBRARY
KEARNS TOWN CENTER STREET CROSS SECTIONS
N
Kearns Town Center
Public Open House October 23, 2018
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
4120 West
DRAFT
4120 West
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
103,000 SF
103,000 SF
DRAFT
103,000 SF
103,000 SF
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
98,394 SF
98,394 SF
DRAFT
98,394 SF
98,394 SF
61,000 SF 
61,000 SF 
DRAFT
61,000 SF 
61,000 SF 
58,500 SF 
58,500 SF 
DRAFT
58,500 SF 
58,500 SF 
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
27,000 SF
27,000 SF
DRAFT
27,000 SF
27,000 SF
20,000 SF
20,000 SF
DRAFT
20,000 SF
20,000 SF
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
5400 South
DRAFT
5400 South
5,900 SF
5,900 SF
DRAFT
5,900 SF
5,900 SF
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
85,000 SF
85,000 SF
DRAFT
85,000 SF
85,000 SF
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
79
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix E
Kearns Town Center 
Kearns Town Center 
–
–
 What happened this fall?
• Re-Kick-Off August 2018
• Online Survey based on Open House materials
• Confirmed the Vision Statement
• Identified preferences for:
– Location of Unified Police facility
– Location and configuration of pedestrian, bicycle, 
transit and car access/circulation
– Location and configuration of public spaces
– Urban design concepts for private development
Kearns Town Center
^hZszZ^h>d^
DRAFTDRAFT
Online Survey based on Open House materials
DRAFT
Online Survey based on Open House materials
Location of Unified Police facility
DRAFT
Location of Unified Police facility
Location and configuration of pedestrian, bicycle, 
DRAFT
Location and configuration of pedestrian, bicycle, 
transit and car access/circulation
DRAFT
transit and car access/circulation
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Location and configuration of public spaces
DRAFT
Location and configuration of public spaces
Urban design concepts for private development
DRAFT
Urban design concepts for private development
DRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns Town Center
DRAFT
Kearns Town Center
^hZszZ^h>d^
DRAFT
^hZszZ^h>d^
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
80 Appendix E
Kearns Town Center 
Kearns Town Center 
–
–
Vision Statement
59%
30%
8%
3%
0%
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
Strongly Agree Disagree
To what extent do you agree with this vision?
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
59%
DRAFT
59%
15
DRAFT
15
20
DRAFT
20
25
DRAFT
25
30
DRAFT
30
35
DRAFT
35
40
DRAFT
40
45
DRAFT
45
50
DRAFT
50
To what extent do you agree with this vision?
DRAFT
To what extent do you agree with this vision?
81
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix E
26%
34%
41%
57%
58%
58%
05 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
High visibility crossings
Cut-throughs between properties to connect streets
Median pedestrian refuges
Pedestrian activated crossings
Pedestrian/cyclist underpass
Pedestrian/cyclist bridge
Crossing Barriers: Preferred Strategies
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Cut-throughs between properties to connect streets
DRAFT
Cut-throughs between properties to connect streets
Median pedestrian refuges
DRAFT
Median pedestrian refuges
Pedestrian activated crossings
DRAFT
Pedestrian activated crossings
Pedestrian/cyclist underpass
DRAFT
Pedestrian/cyclist underpass
Pedestrian/cyclist bridge
DRAFT
Pedestrian/cyclist bridge
Crossing Barriers: Preferred Strategies
DRAFT
Crossing Barriers: Preferred Strategies
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
82 Appendix E
13%
26%
29%
38%
41%
53%
53%
54%
57%
62%
64%
70%
79%
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
Turn lanes for bikes
Routes through the neighborhood to access the town center
Local access lane
Shared/festival street – where cars are “guests” and can be closed for events
Special paving
Bike lanes
Wayfinding signs
Wide sidewalk with streetscape features
Street furniture
Streets with wide sidewalks and pedestrian amenities
Pedestrian pathways
Decorative lighting
Street trees
Streets and Streetscapes: Preferred Elements
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Routes through the neighborhood to access the town center
DRAFT
Routes through the neighborhood to access the town center
Shared/festival street 
DRAFT
Shared/festival street –
DRAFT
– where cars are “guests” and can be closed for events
DRAFT
where cars are “guests” and can be closed for events
Wide sidewalk with streetscape features
DRAFT
Wide sidewalk with streetscape features
Street furniture
DRAFT
Street furniture
Streets with wide sidewalks and pedestrian amenities
DRAFT
Streets with wide sidewalks and pedestrian amenities
Pedestrian pathways
DRAFT
Pedestrian pathways
Decorative lighting
DRAFT
Decorative lighting
Street trees
DRAFT
Street trees
Streets and Streetscapes: Preferred Elements
DRAFT
Streets and Streetscapes: Preferred Elements
83
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix E
21%
12%
29%
5%
51%
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Example 1 Example 2 Example 3 Example 4 Example 5
Transportation Hub Character
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
21%
DRAFT
21%
10
DRAFT
10
15
DRAFT
15
20
DRAFT
20
25
DRAFT
25
30
DRAFT
30
35
DRAFT
35
40
DRAFT
40
Transportation Hub Character
DRAFT
Transportation Hub Character
DRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
84 Appendix E
79%
70%
64%
62%
58%
55%
54%
53%
47%
37%
33%
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
Integration with police station
Shelters
Park and Ride
Transit info map
Seating
Real time transit information
Retail kiosk - food, news, flowers, etc.
Community celebration and information
Bike racks
UTA flex route circulator
Bike lockers
Community Transportation Hub: Preferred Elements
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
55%
DRAFT
55%
54%
DRAFT
54%
53%
DRAFT
53%
47%
DRAFT
47%47%
DRAFT
47%
37%
DRAFT
37%37%
DRAFT
37%
33%
DRAFT
33%
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

85
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix E
63%
62%
55%
54%
50%
45%
37%
29%
28%
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
Water feature
Diverse use gathering space (plaza/park)
Connection space (pocket park)
Community garden
Performance space
Botanical garden
Open civic space (plaza/park)
Destination (pocket park)
Flex space (plaza/park)
Public Space: Preferred Elements
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
28%
DRAFT
28%
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
86 Appendix E
26%
42%
58%
43%
37%
28%
33%
28%
54%
30%
29%
41%
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
Housing with ground floor retail
Single level retail
Mid-sized mixed use
Significant pedestrian elements/infrastructure
Pedestrian-centric design
Auto/pedestrian combination
Strip mall/lifestyle/outlet center
Modern/sleek
Classic style/multi-use
Minimal wayfinding and signage
Substantial retail signage
Substantial wayfinding and signage
Urban Design Guidelines: Preferred Elements
Kearns Town Center
IllƵƐtƌatiǀeWlan
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
26%
DRAFT
26%
42%
DRAFT
42%
58%
DRAFT
58%58%
DRAFT
58%
43%
DRAFT
43%43%
DRAFT
43%
37%
DRAFT
37%37%
DRAFT
37%
54%
DRAFT
54%
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
DRAFT
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
DRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns Town Center
DRAFT
Kearns Town Center

87
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix E
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
88
 Appendix E
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

89
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix E
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
90
 Appendix E
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT

91
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns Town Center
Implementation
Appendix E
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns Town Center
DRAFT
Kearns Town Center
Implementation
DRAFT
Implementation
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
92
Kearns Town Center 
Kearns Town Center 
–
–
 Keys to Success
• Managed
• Retail-appropriate
• Mixed
• Safe
• Championed
• Anchored 
(Civic/Cultural)
• Walkable
• Unified
• Local or national
• Accessible
• Visible
Kearns Town Center 
• Regulatory Tools
– Adopted Vision Plan
– Zoning Code
– Development Process
• Capacity Tools
– Community-based business support
– Community-based resident support
– Administrative (staff) support
Appendix E
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Local or national
DRAFT
Local or national
Accessible
DRAFT
Accessible
Visible
DRAFT
Visible
DRAFT
DRAFT
Kearns Town Center 
DRAFT
Kearns Town Center 
Regulatory Tools
DRAFT
Regulatory Tools
–
DRAFT
– Adopted Vision Plan
DRAFT
Adopted Vision Plan
–
DRAFT
– Zoning Code
DRAFT
Zoning Code
–
DRAFT
– Development Process
DRAFT
Development Process
•
DRAFT
• Capacity Tools
DRAFT
Capacity Tools
–
DRAFT
– Community-
DRAFT
Community-
–
DRAFT
– Community-
DRAFT
Community-
Administrative (staff) supportDRAFTAdministrative (staff) support
93
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Kearns Town Center 
• Financial Tools
– Tax increment producing area
– Aid with grants
– Aid with other partnerships
• Market-based Tools
– Identifying the right market-based opportunities
– “Adjusting” the market where appropriate
Appendix E
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
based opportunities
DRAFT
based opportunities
“Adjusting” the market where appropriate
DRAFT
“Adjusting” the market where appropriate
DRAFT
95
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix F
F1 
 
Appendix F 
Kearns Town Center Master Plan 
Retail Market Assessment Tool 
 
Retail Category Definitions 
Neighborhood Goods & Services (NG&S) – Retail and service category for convenience-oriented shops 
and providers with a trade area of Φ mile or less. Store types include supermarkets, pharmacies, beauty 
salons/barbers, insurance agents, dentists, etc. Retailers in this category use the following measures to 
evaluate potential locations. 
 
Neighborhood Goods & Services (NG&S) Market Assessment  
Element 
Trade 
Area 
(Miles) Measure Score 
Population 0.5 Less than 2,000 people in trade area 0 
   2,000 to 4,000 people in trade area 1 
    More than 4,000 people in trade area 2 
Median HH Income 0.5 Less than $35,000/HH in trade area 0 
   $35,000 - $65,000/HH in trade area 1 
    More than $65,000/HH in trade area 2 
Daytime population 0.5 Less than 5,000 employees in trade area 0 
   5,000 - 7,000 employees in trade area 1 
    More than 7,000 employees in trade area 2 
Educational Attainment 0.5 Less than 15% with Bachelor's Degree or higher 0 
   15-25% with Bachelor's Degree or higher 1 
    More than 25% with Bachelor's Degree or higher 2 
Accessibility   More than 20 pedestrians per hour on average 1 
   Bus/Transit Lines 1 
    Traffic Count of 5,000 AADT or higher on principal street 1 
Other   Existing outlets within category 1 
 
 
  
DRAFT
convenience-oriented 
DRAFT
convenience-oriented shops 
DRAFT
shops 
s include supermarkets, pharmacies, beauty 
DRAFT
s include supermarkets, pharmacies, beauty 
Retailers in this category use the following measures to 
DRAFT
Retailers in this category use the following measures to 
Neighborhood Goods & Services (NG&S) Market Assessment
DRAFT
Neighborhood Goods & Services (NG&S) Market Assessment
DRAFTDRAFT
Measure
DRAFT
Measure
DRAFT
Less than 2,000 people in trade area
DRAFT
Less than 2,000 people in trade area
DRAFT
2,000 to 4,000 people in trade area
DRAFT
2,000 to 4,000 people in trade area
More than 4,000 people in trade area
DRAFT
More than 4,000 people in trade area
Less than $35,000/HH in trade area
DRAFT
Less than $35,000/HH in trade area
DRAFT
$35,000 
DRAFT
$35,000 -
DRAFT
- $65,000/HH in trade area
DRAFT
$65,000/HH in trade area
More than $65,000/HH in trade area
DRAFT
More than $65,000/HH in trade area
0.5
DRAFT
0.5 Less than 5,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
Less than 5,000 employees in trade area
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
5,000 
DRAFT
5,000 -
DRAFT
- 7,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
7,000 employees in trade area
More than 7,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
More than 7,000 employees in trade area
Educational Attainment
DRAFT
Educational Attainment 0.5
DRAFT
0.5 Less than 15% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFT
Less than 15% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
15
DRAFT
15-
DRAFT
-25% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFT
25% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
More than 25% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFT
More than 25% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
Accessibility
DRAFT
Accessibility More than 20 pedestrians per hour on average
DRAFT
More than 20 pedestrians per hour on average
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Bus/Transit Lines
DRAFT
Bus/Transit Lines
Traffic Count of 5,000 AADT or higher on principal street
DRAFT
Traffic Count of 5,000 AADT or higher on principal street
Other
DRAFT
Other Existing outlets within category
DRAFT
Existing outlets within category
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
96 Appendix F
F2 
 
Food & Beverage (F&B) – Retail and service category focusing on prepared food and beverages with a 
trade area of Φ mile or less. Store types include fast food, fast casual (Chipotle, etc.,) full service (Olive 
Garden, etc.), bars, and coffee shops. Retailers in this category use the following measures to evaluate 
potential locations. 
 
Food & Beverage (F&B) Market Assessment  
Element 
Trade 
Area 
(Miles) Measure Score 
Population 0.5 Less than 7,500 people in trade area 0 
   7,500 to 10,000 people in trade area 1 
    More than 10,000 people in trade area 2 
Median HH Income 0.5 Less than $45,000/HH in trade area 0 
   $45,000 - $65,000/HH in trade area 1 
    More than $65,000/HH in trade area 2 
Daytime population 0.5 Less than 15,000 employees in trade area 0 
   15,000 - 45,000 employees in trade area 1 
    More than 45,000 employees in trade area 2 
Educational Attainment 0.5 Less than 20% with Bachelor's Degree or higher 0 
   20-30% with Bachelor's Degree or higher 1 
    More than 30% with Bachelor's Degree or higher 2 
Accessibility   More than 60 pedestrians per hour on average 1 
   Bus/Transit Lines 1 
    Traffic Count of 7,500 AADT or higher on principal street 1 
Other   Existing outlets within category 1 
 
 
  
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Measure
DRAFT
Measure
DRAFTDRAFT
Score
DRAFT
Score
Less than 7,500 people in trade area
DRAFT
Less than 7,500 people in trade area
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
7,500 to 10,000 people in trade area
DRAFT
7,500 to 10,000 people in trade area
More than 10,000 people in trade area
DRAFT
More than 10,000 people in trade area
Less than $45,000/HH in trade area
DRAFT
Less than $45,000/HH in trade area
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
$65,000/HH in trade area
DRAFT
$65,000/HH in trade area
More than $65,000/HH in trade area
DRAFT
More than $65,000/HH in trade area
Less than 15,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
Less than 15,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
15,000 
DRAFT
15,000 -
DRAFT
- 45,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
45,000 employees in trade area
More than 45,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
More than 45,000 employees in trade area
0.5
DRAFT
0.5 Less than 20% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFT
Less than 20% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
20
DRAFT
20-
DRAFT
-30% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFT
30% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
More than 30% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFT
More than 30% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
More than 60 pedestrians per hour on average
DRAFT
More than 60 pedestrians per hour on average
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Bus/Transit Lines
DRAFT
Bus/Transit Lines
Traffic Count of 7,500 AADT or higher on principal street
DRAFT
Traffic Count of 7,500 AADT or higher on principal street
Existing outlets within category
DRAFT
Existing outlets within category
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
97
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix F
F3 
 
General Merchandise, Apparel, Furniture & Other – Retail category focusing on consumer goods with a 
trade area of 1 mile or more. Store types include Walmart, Gap, RC Willey’s, and similar brands. Retailers 
in this category use the following measures to evaluate potential locations. 
 
General merchandise, Apparel, Furnishings, and other (GAFO) Market Assessment  
Element 
Trade Area 
(Miles) Measure Score 
Population 1 Less than 30,000 people in trade area 0 
   30,000 - 50,000 people in trade area 1 
    More than 50,000 people in trade area 2 
Median HH Income 1 Less than $50,000/HH in trade area 0 
   $50,000 - $75,000/HH in trade area 1 
    More than $75,000/HH in trade area 2 
Daytime population 1 Less than 10,000 employees in trade area 0 
   10,000 - 25,000 employees in trade area 1 
    More than 25,000 employees in trade area 2 
Educational Attainment 1 Less than 25% with Bachelor's Degree or higher 0 
   25-40% with Bachelor's Degree or higher 1 
    More than 40% with Bachelor's Degree or higher 2 
Accessibility   More than 40 pedestrians per hour on average 1 
   Bus/Transit Lines 1 
    
Traffic Count of 15,000 AADT or higher on principal 
street 1 
Other   Existing outlets within category 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DRAFT
General merchandise, Apparel, Furnishings, and other (GAFO) Market Assessment
DRAFT
General merchandise, Apparel, Furnishings, and other (GAFO) Market Assessment
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Less than 30,000 people in trade area
DRAFT
Less than 30,000 people in trade area
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
50,000 people in trade area
DRAFT
50,000 people in trade area
More than 50,000 people in trade area
DRAFT
More than 50,000 people in trade area 2
DRAFT
2
Less than $50,000/HH in trade area
DRAFT
Less than $50,000/HH in trade area
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
$75,000/HH in trade area
DRAFT
$75,000/HH in trade area
More than $75,000/HH in trade area
DRAFT
More than $75,000/HH in trade area
Less than 10,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
Less than 10,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
25,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
25,000 employees in trade area
More than 25,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
More than 25,000 employees in trade area
DRAFT
Less than 25% with Bachelor's Degr
DRAFT
Less than 25% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFT
ee or higher
DRAFT
25
DRAFT
25-
DRAFT
-40% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFT
40% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
More than 40% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
DRAFT
More than 40% with Bachelor's Degree or higher
More than 40 pedestrians per hour on average
DRAFT
More than 40 pedestrians per hour on average
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Bus/Transit Lines
DRAFT
Bus/Transit Lines
Traffic Count of 15,000 AADT or higher on principal 
DRAFT
Traffic Count of 15,000 AADT or higher on principal 
street
DRAFT
street
Existing outlets within category
DRAFT
Existing outlets within category
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
99
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix G
G1 
 
Appendix G 
Kearns Town Center Master Plan 
Retail District Inventory Tool 
 
Retail Inventory Table Instructions 
Before you can determine your neighborhood's retail potential, you must 
discover what is already there.  The instructions below offer guidance to 
complete the inventory table.  The table can be adapted to meet your specific 
needs. 
  
Step 1 Boundaries 
Description:  
  
  
Instructions: What are the limits of the retail district? 
* 
Retail districts have continuous retail with few exceptions. At 
the very least, there should be a strings of ground level spaces 
activated by a use accessible to the public (church, public 
government office, daycare, etc.) Large non-retail uses, such as 
apartment buildings, universities, access-restricted 
government buildings, parks, etc. typically signal the end of a 
retail district. 
  
Step 2 To include or not to include? 
* 
The name "retail inventory" is misleading. The table should 
include all spaces in the retail district described above that are 
"retail appropriate" regardless of existing use. Current 
occupancy of some of the properties on the list may be office 
or vacant. This happens when a "retail appropriate" location is 
the current home to a non-retail use. Retail appropriate spaces 
often have storefronts, do not have front yards, and are 
typically adjacent to similar looking ground-level spaces. If the 
front of the building looks like it could be a great space for a 
store if it only had an awning or sign, it is probably retail 
appropriate. 
  
Step 3 Identify the retail category. 
* NG&S 
 
Grocery stores, convenience stores, drugstores, florists, 
bakeries, delicatessens, butchers, dry cleaners, etc. 
* F&B 
DRAFT
complete the inventory table.  The table can be adapted to meet your specific 
DRAFT
complete the inventory table.  The table can be adapted to meet your specific 
What are the limits of the retail district?
DRAFT
What are the limits of the retail district?
Retail districts have continuous retail with few exceptions. At 
DRAFT
Retail districts have continuous retail with few exceptions. At 
the very least, there should be a strings of ground level spaces 
DRAFT
the very least, there should be a strings of ground level spaces 
activated by a use accessible to the public (church, public 
DRAFT
activated by a use accessible to the public (church, public 
government office, d
DRAFT
government office, daycare, etc.) Large non
DRAFT
aycare, etc.) Large non-retail uses, such as 
DRAFT
-retail uses, such as 
apartment buildings, universities, access-restricted 
DRAFT
apartment buildings, universities, access-restricted 
government buildings, parks, etc. typically signal the end of a 
DRAFT
government buildings, parks, etc. typically signal the end of a 
retail district.
DRAFT
retail district.
To include or not to include?
DRAFT
To include or not to include?
The name "retail 
DRAFT
The name "retail inventory" is misleading. The table should 
DRAFT
inventory" is misleading. The table should 
include all spaces in the retail district described above that are 
DRAFT
include all spaces in the retail district described above that are 
"retail appropriate" regardless of existing use. Current 
DRAFT
"retail appropriate" regardless of existing use. Current 
occupancy of some of the properties on the list may be office 
DRAFT
occupancy of some of the properties on the list may be office 
or vacant. This happens when a "retail appropriate" location is 
DRAFT
or vacant. This happens when a "retail appropriate" location is 
the current home to a non-retail use. Retail appropriate spaces 
DRAFT
the current home to a non-retail use. Retail appropriate spaces 
often have storefronts, do not have front yards, and are 
DRAFT
often have storefronts, do not have front yards, and are 
typically adjacent to similar looking ground-level spaces. If the 
DRAFT
typically adjacent to similar looking ground-level spaces. If the 
front of the building looks like it could be a great space for a 
DRAFT
front of the building looks like it could be a great space for a 
store if it only had an awning or sign, it is probably retail 
DRAFT
store if it only had an awning or sign, it is probably retail 
appropriate.
DRAFT
appropriate.
Identify the retail category.DRAFTIdentify the retail category.
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
100 Appendix G
G2 
 
 
Sit-down restaurants, take-away food establishments, cafes, 
bars, coffee shops, sandwich shops, ice cream shops, etc. 
* GAFO 
 
Clothing stores, furniture stores, discount stores, bookstores, 
jewelry stores, stationery stores, pet and pet-supply stores, 
sporting goods, auto parts stores, hardware stores, etc. 
  
Step 4 Determine property owner 
* Found at: 
 https://slco.org/assessor/new/query/intropage.cfm 
 
DRAFT
https://slco.org/assessor/new/query/intropage.cfm
DRAFT
https://slco.org/assessor/new/query/intropage.cfm
DRAFT
101
Kearns Town Center Plan  //   Appendices  //   GSBS Consulting
Appendix G
G3 
 
Retail Inventory Table        
       
Retailer/Occupant Name 
Street 
No. Street Name 
Use (Retail/ 
Office/ 
Vacant/ 
Residential/ 
Other) 
Retail 
Category 
(NG&S/ 
F&B/ 
GAFO) Property Owner Property Owner Address 
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
              
 
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
Retailer/Occupant Name
DRAFT
Retailer/Occupant Name
DRAFTDRAFT
Street 
DRAFT
Street 
DRAFT
No.
DRAFT
No.
DRAFTDRAFT
Street Name
DRAFT
Street Name
DRAFTDRAFT
Residential/ 
DRAFT
Residential/ 
DRAFT
Other)
DRAFT
Other)
DRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFTDRAFT
DRAFT
MASTER TRANSPORTATION  PLAN
KEARNS
METRO  TOWNSHIP2019

METRO  TOWNSHIP
CONTENTS
1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 5
2 WHERE WE ARE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 7
DEMOGRAPHICS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .8
POPULATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .8
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
ACTIVE TRANSPORT
ATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
TRANSIT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
3 WHERE WE ARE GOING   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .27
FUTURE FORECASTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
RECOMMENDED 20
50 ROADWAY CONDITIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
SUMMARY OF WHA
T THE FUTURE HOLDS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
4 AREAS OF CONCERN   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .33
5 WHAT WE HEARD .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .46
6 KEARNS SIDEWALK PLAN   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .50
PROJECT APPROACH   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
SIDEWALK ADA
 COMPLIANCE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
10 - YEAR
 MAINTENANCE PLAN   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
7 WHAT IS THE PLAN  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .62
ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
TRANSIT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
CAPITAL FACILITIES
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Figures 
Figure 2-1:Existing Zoning Map                                                                      7
Figure 2-2: Population G
rowth                                                                        8
Figure 2-3: Historic & F
uture Population                                                            8
Figure 2-4: Population A
ge Distribution                                                            9
Table 2-1: Population and Households ov
er time                                                9
Figure 2-5: Total Jobs within K
earns                                                               10
Figure 2-6: Inflow/O
utflow Commuting Patterns                                              11
Figure 2-7: Mobility 
Vs Access                                                                       12
Table 2-2: Street Func
tional Classification                                                       14
Table 2-3: Level of S
ervice                                                                            15
Figure 2-11: Crashes b
y Manner of Collision                                                    18
Figure 2-13: Crashes b
y Severity                                                                    19
Figure 2-15: Pedestrian Cr
ashes                                                                    20
Figure 2-17: Bicycle C
rashes                                                                         21
Figure 2-19: 2019 Crash S
everity                                                                   22
Table 2-4: Transit R
outes in Kearns                                                                 25
Figure 4-2: Graph of 85th per
centile speeds along 4015 West                              35
Table 6-1: General Cost b
y Treatment Type                                                      60
Table 7-1: Roadway C
ross Section Widths                                                        63
Figure 7-2: Minor Ar
terial Cross Section                                                          64
Figure 7-3: Major Collec
tor Cross Section                                                        64
Figure 7-4: Collect
or Cross Section                                                                65
Figure 7-5: Minor Collec
tor Cross Section                                                        65
Table 7-2: Capital Facilities Plan C
osts: 2020-2030                                             69
Table 7-3: Capital Facilities Plan C
osts: 2031-2050                                             69
3
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Maps
Figure 1-1: Kearn’s Population                                                                        5
Figure 1-2: Projec
t List and Map                                                                      6
Figure 2-8: Existing Functional C
lassification                                                    13
Figure 2-10: Existing Lev
el of Service                                                              16
Figure 2-12: Map of Cr
ashes by Manner of Collision                                           18
Figure 2-14: Map of Cr
ashes by Severity                                                          19
Figure 2-16: Map of Pedestrian C
rashes                                                          20
Figure 2-18: Map of Bicy
cle Crashes                                                               21
Figure 2-20: Map of 2019 Fa
talities                                                                22
Figure 2-21-: Existing Activ
e Transportation                                                    24
Figure 2-22: Existing Tr
ansit                                                                         25
Figure 2-23: Tr
ansit Alightings and Boardings                                                  26
Figure 3-1: Forecast
ed Growth in Kearns                                                         27
Figure 3-2: 2050 No Build Lev
el of Service                                                       29
Figure 3-3: 2050 Planned Le
vel of Service                                                        31
Figure 3-4: 2050 Additional Capacit
y                                                              32
Figure 4-1: Map of Hotspot Ar
eas                                                                  33
Figure 6-1: Existing Sidewalks in K
earns                                                          54
Figure 6-2: Identified Sidew
alk Issues in Kearns                                                55
Figure 6-3: Over
all Sidewalk Condition                                                           57
Figure 6-4: General I
mportance of Sidewalk Facilities in Kearns                           58
Figure 6-5: Poten
tial Inspection Areas in Kearns                                               59
Figure 6-6: First 5 Y
ears of 10-Year Maintenance Plan                                         60
Figure 6-7: Second 5 
Years of 10-Year Maintenance Plan                                     61
Figure 7-1: Future F
unctional Classification                                                     62
Figure 7-6: Future A
ctive Transportation Facilities                                            66
Figure 7-7: Future 
Transit Facilities                                                                67
Figure 7-8: Capital Facilities P
lan Costs: 2020-2050                                            68
4
METRO  TOWNSHIP
1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Kearns Metro Township, named after Utah’s U.S. Senator Thomas Kearns, is located in the heart of
Salt Lake County and is home to the Kearns Oquirrh Park which hosted Olympic events in 2002. In 
2019, its 4.8 square miles of land is near built out and at every part of its Township boundary it borders 
other municipalities. This makes space for roadway projects increasingly finite and a more challenging 
endeavor than it has been in the past. For that reason, it is imperative a proper transportation plan be 
adopted to balance roadways, land use, and growth, far into the future. 
Kearns is currently not experiencing 
rapid population or housing growth,  
but traffic is still increasing and the 
transportation system needs  to 
accommodate this with the appropriate 
improvements. Kearns also needs to 
expand  and improve bicycle facilities, 
sidewalks and pedestrian pathways to 
ensure it is  serving all members of the 
community. This transportation plan 
addresses those needs.
This plan provides a comprehensive 
analysis of the current and future 
conditions of Kearns and is organized into 
six sections, Where We Are,   Where We Are 
Going, Areas of concern, What We Heard, 
Sidewalk Plan, and What is the Plan. 
This document combines data, research 
and recommendations.  Whether discussing specific transportation ‘hotspots,‘ transit, needed capacity, or active 
transportation, the main goal is to provide the Township with a holistic transportation plan that offers solutions for 
maintaining and improving the quality of life in Kearns. 
This plan focuses on improving safety 
and accommodating all modes 
of transportation. The Township’s 
roads, intersections, and sidewalks 
were evaluated and considered with 
the final project recommendations, 
which are in the table on page 2, 
with additional details on page 61. 
Overall, the transportation system 
is relatively developed. Ten projects 
have been identified as ‘needed’ 
over the next 30 years,  many with 
grants and other outside resources 
for funding. 
Kearn’s Oquirrh Park and Olympic Oval
Figure 1-1: Kearn’s Population
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
30000
35000
40000
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
2016
2018
2020
2022
2024
2026
2028
2030
2032
2034
2036
2038
2040
2042
2044
2046
2048
2050
Kearns Population
Historic Projected
5
METRO  TOWNSHIP
!(!(
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
89
10 5400 South
4700 South
6200 South
401 5  West
Cougar Lane
5600 West
Mountain V iew
Project
#
1 Westsams Blvd/4580 West/Pieper Blvd/Northwest Ave:
4 7 15  S o ut h t o  5 4 15  S o ut h T raffic Calming $367,000 Kearns
2 No r t hw e s t  A v e :  5 5 0 0  S o ut h a nd  5 7 4 0  S o ut hT raffic Calming $1 41 ,000 Kearns
3 4 0 15  W e s t :  T w ilig ht  D r .  a nd  5 7 0 0  S o ut hT raffic Calming $32,000 Kearns
4 541 5 Sou th /N orthwest Aven u e Intersection Improvement $1 ,320,000 U DOT
5 Cougar Lane: Niagara W ay and Kearns High Dr. Capacity Improvement $2,380,000 Kearns
6 5400 South/5600 West Intersection Improvement $2,880,000 U DOT
7 4700 South: MVC to 4000 West Capacity Improvement $31 ,1 40,000 Kea rn s/WF R C
Project
#
8 6 2 0 0  S o ut h:  C o ug a r  L a ne  t o  B a ng e r t e r  Hig hw a yCapacity Improvement $1 3,990,000 Kea rn s/WF R C
9 6200 South: MVC to 5600 West Capacity Improvement $1 1 ,920,000 Kea rn s/WF R C
10 5400 South: MVC to 5600 West Capacity Improvement $7,640,000 Kearns
2020-2030 Projects
2031 -2050 Projects
Subtotal (Kearns): $2,920,00
Subtotal (Kearns/WFRC): $50,05,000
Subtotal (UDOT):  $1 1 ,840,000
T otal: $71 ,81 0,000
Improvement Type
Improvement TypeLocation T otal Cost Funding Source
Location T otal Cost Funding Source
!( Interscetion Improvements
T raffic Calming
Widening Projects
Priority Sidewalk Projects 2020-2022
Figure 1-2: Project List and Map
6
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Figure 2-1:Existing Zoning Map
7
2 WHERE WE ARE
This chapter evaluates the existing transportation system within Kearns Metro Township and 
establishes the framework for the development of  the transportation plan. This analysis includes a 
description of the land use as well as the demographic profile of Kearns and how these factors affect 
the transportation system. This chapter details the existing conditions in 2019.
Zoning and Land Use
In order to analyze the transportation system and plan for future growth, it is essential to understand zoning 
land use patterns within the area. Travel is a daily requirement for the majority of the public as people travel 
from their homes to work, to shop, health care, educational, and recreational opportunities. Zoning and land 
use patterns must function cohesively with the transportation system to support a high quality of life and 
economic growth in Kearns.
Kearns is mostly a residentially zoned bedroom community with more households than jobs. The distribution 
of  zoning type and land use is consistent with other communities of Salt Lake County. Kearns is predominantly 
zoned R-1-6 to R-1-8, single family residential. There are several pockets of commercial zoning (C-2), with the major 
commercial area located at the intersection of 5400 S and 4100 W. Heavy and light industrial zoning (M-1, M-2) is 
found in the northwest corner of the township along the rail corridor. Small pockets of multi-family residential (RM, 
RMH) are found scattered throughout the township, mostly in the vicinity of commercial or industrial uses. The 
existing zoning within Kearns is shown below in Figure 2-1.
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Demographics
Population
The population of Kearns has been hovering just above 35,000 
residents for the past decade and this trend is predicted to 
continue into 2050. Estimates from The Kem C. Gardner Institute 
place the population at 35,242 in 2018, which is just slightly 
down from 2017 (35,530) and 2010 (35,786). Such a small decline 
in population over the past decade is evidence of an almost built 
out community. This trend is unlikely to change if current zoning 
and land use policy continue into the future. 
Figure 2-2 shows this steady population from 2010 through 
2018. It also shows the population forecast remaining steady, 
with a future projected population remaining between 35,000 
and 40,000 in Kearns.
Figure 2-2: Population Growth
Source: WFRC Regional Travel Demand Model Projections by TAZ
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
30000
35000
40000
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
2016
2018
2020
2022
2024
2026
2028
2030
2032
2034
2036
2038
2040
2042
2044
2046
2048
2050
Kearns Population
Historic Projected
Figure 2-3: Historic & Future 
Population
8
METRO  TOWNSHIP
The age of residents also impacts how they interact with the transportation system. Kearns has a 
relatively high population of children, 32% of the population is under 18. The transportation needs of 
these younger residents are different than other age-groups since they are reliant on others for car related 
mobility. Comfortable sidewalk and biking facilities may be their choice way of travel, whether accompanied 
by adults or not. 
While there are fewer residents in older population groups (8% over 65), the mobility needs of these residents 
will continue to expand as the population grows and ages. As with younger population age groups, the 
transportation  system should support other mobility options for residents that may chose not to, or be 
unable to drive.
Housing
Although population is an important indicator in developing a transportation plan, households and hous-
ing provide a broader picture of how residential growth will affect transportation demand. The number of 
trips on the transportation network is estimated largely on the number and size of households. Table 2-1 
summarized the household size in Kearns. The average size is 3.5 persons per household.
 POPULATION HOUSEHOLDS HH SIZE
2000 33,659 9,413 3.58
2010 35,731 10,169 3.51
2019 36,330 10,190 3.46
Table 2-1: Population and Households over time
Source: US Census Bureau, 2013-2017 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates
Figure 2-4: Population Age Distribution
 85 years and over
 80 to 84 years
70 to 74 years
 65 to 69 years
60 to 64 years
 55 to 59 years
 50 to 54 years
 45 to 49 years
 40 to 44 years
 35 to 39 years
 30 to 34 years
25 to 29 years
 20 to 24 years
 75 to 79 years
 15 to 19 years
10 to 14 years
 5 to 9 years
 Under 5 years
0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000
9
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Employment
There were approximately 3,800 jobs within the Kearns Metro Township of in 2017. The number of 
jobs within Kearns from 2002 to 2017 is summarized in Figure 2-5. Since 2002 about 120 jobs have been 
added within the township, representing annualized growth of 3.2% per year. 
Figure 2-5: Total Jobs within Kearns
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018
Empl oyment
Year
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, OnTheMap Application and LEHD Origin-Destination
Employment Statistics (Beginning of Quarter Employment, 2nd Quarter of 2002-2015).
Kearns has diverse employment with job centers such as Camp Kearns and the commercial district on 5400 South, 
which can be seen in the image below. There are other employers throughout the township, such as schools and 
spot commercial and industrial zoned sites in various locations.
Aerial Image Highlighting Employment and Residential Areas in Kearns
10
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Although employment within Kearns has increased recently, there are still more residents that 
live within the township but are employed elsewhere. There were approximately 18,399 residents 
that commuted to a job outside of the township in 2017, while only 3,469 people commuted to Kearns 
from another community for work. There were only about 340 residents that both lived and worked within 
the township. These existing commuting patterns help inform transportation investment decisions since 
people commuting into and out of the township for work effectively have a greater impact on the overall 
transportation system demands due to longer trip lengths.
Figure 2-6: Inflow/Outflow Commuting Patterns
340
Workers Workers 
living in living in 
KearnsKearns
18,399
Residents leaving Residents leaving 
for workfor work
People coming People coming 
in for workin for work
3,469
Source: U.S. Census Bureau, OnTheMap Application and LEHD Origin-Destination Employment Statistics (Beginning of Quarter 
Employment, 2nd Quarter of 2002-2015).
11
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Transportation System
The present state of the transportation network in Kearns is well positioned to  support the overall 
community transportation vision. Since Kearns has no major future growth there is less demand for 
large transportation expansion capacity projects. 
Much of the improvements in the transportation 
network will revolve around making the system 
more accessible, safer, and more efficient.
Street Network
Roadway functional classification is a means to 
categorize how a roadway functions and operates 
based upon a combination of the roadway 
characteristics.
Streets provide for two distinct and competing 
functions: mobility and land access. As mobility 
increases, land access decreases and vice versa as 
shown in Figure 2-7. Both functions are vital, and no trip is made without both. In Kearns, street facilities are 
classified by the relative amounts of land-access service they provide. There are four primary classifications, with 
descriptions in Table 2-2 on page 10 and in the text below:
 » Freeways & Expressways – Freeway and expressway facilities are provided to service long distance trips 
between cities and states. No land access is provided by these facilities. Both I-15 and the future Mountain View 
Corridor are freeways near Kearns, but there are no freeways or expressways directly located in Kearns. 
 » Arterials – Arterial facilities are designed to serve a high level of mobility providing fast flowing through-traffic 
movement but with low level land-access service. The traffic controls and facility designs are primarily intended 
to provide efficient through movement. 5400 South and 4700 South are arterials in Kearns. Arterials frequently 
provide the most direct route from A to B not only for vehicles but for pedestrians and bicyclists as well. These 
roads may offer wide shoulders that can accommodate buffered or separated bike lanes and choice locations 
for bus stops. 
 » Collectors – Collector facilities are intended to serve 
both through and land-access functions in relatively 
equal proportions. For longer, through trips requiring 
high mobility such facilities are inefficient. Instead they 
are used for shorter trips requiring increased access to 
destinations. For the bicyclist or pedestrian, collectors  
can offer a comfortable level of safety and a number 
of route choices because of low vehicle speeds and a 
variety of access options to potential destinations.
 » Local Roads/Residential Streets – Residential 
facilities primarily serve land-access functions. Local 
Road design and control facilitates the movement 
of vehicles onto and off the street system from 
land parcels. Through movement is difficult and 
is discouraged by both the design and control of 
this facility. This level of street network is likely to 
provide the highest level of comfort to bicyclists and 
pedestrians. Local roads will have the lowest speeds 
and be mostly absent of large vehicles. The safety 
and comfort of local roads is also due to a quieter 
Figure 2-7: Mobility Vs Access
Mobility vs. Access Functional 
Classi/f_ication
Complete 
Access 
Control
Expressway
Strategic Arterial
Principle Arterial
Collector
Local
Freeway
Cul-de-sacUnrestricted
Access
Increasing Mobility
Increasing Access
Mobility
Access
}
 5400 South and Northwest Ave in Kearns
12
METRO  TOWNSHIP
environment since there are less vehicles and slower speeds, as well as one removed from 
roadway air pollution that is associated with higher traffic volumes.
Roadway functional classification does not define the number of lanes required for each roadway’s 
automobile capacity. For instance, a collector street may have two, three, or four lanes, whereas an arterial 
street may have up to nine lanes for motorized traffic. The number of lanes is a function of the expected 
automobile traffic volume on the roadway and serves as the greatest measure of roadway capacity for 
vehicles. The existing functional class network in Figure 2-8 is separated into functional classes by access as 
well as the general right-of-way width.
Figure 2-8: Existing Functional Classification
13
METRO  TOWNSHIP
CHARACTERISTIC
FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION
FREEWAY & 
EXPRESSWAY
ARTERIAL COLLECTOR RESIDENTIAL 
STREET
Function Traffic movement Traffic movement, 
land access
Collect and 
distribute traffic 
between streets & 
arterials, land access
Land access
Typical % of Surface 
Street System 
Mileage
Not applicable 5 - 10% 10 - 20% 60 - 80%
Continuity Continuous Continuous Continuous None
Spacing 4 miles 1 mile 1/4 - 1/2 mile As needed
Typical % of Surface 
Street System 
Vehicle-Miles 
Carried
Not Applicable 40 - 65% 10 - 20% 10 - 25%
Direct Land Access None Limited: Major 
generators only
Restricted: Some 
movements 
prohibited; 
number & spacing 
of driveways 
controlled
Safety controls 
access
Minimum Roadway 
Intersection 
Spacing
Approximately 1 
mile
Approximately 1/2 
mile
300 feet - 1/4 mile 150 feet
Speed Limit 55 -75 mph 40 - 50 mph in fully 
developed areas
30 - 40 mph 25 mph
Parking Prohibited Discouraged Limited Allowed
Comments Supplements 
capacity of arterial 
street system & 
provides high-speed 
mobility
Backbone of street 
system 
Through traffic 
should be 
discouraged
Table 2-2: Street Functional Classification
14
LEVEL OF 
SERVICE TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
AVERAGE DELAY ( SECONDS/VEHICLE )
SIGNALIZED 
INTERSECTION
UNSIGNALIZED 
INTERSECTION
A Free Flow Operations / Insignificant Delay 0 ≤ 10 0 ≤ 10
B Smooth Operations / Short Delays > 10 and ≤ 20 > 10 and ≤ 15
C Stable Operations / Acceptable Delays > 20 and ≤ 35 > 15 and ≤ 25
D Approaching Unstable Operations / 
Tolerable Delays
> 35 and ≤ 55 > 25 and ≤ 35
E Unstable Operations / Significant Delays 
Begin
> 55 and ≤ 80 > 35 and ≤ 50
F Very Poor Operations / Excessive Delays 
Occur
> 80 > 50
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Traffic Volume
Traffic data is typically shown as the number of vehicles per day or an average daily volume. Data 
collection was completed as part of the transportation plan. This included traffic data from Kearns and 
UDOT, as well as new traffic counts to document traffic volumes and speeds. These volume data provides 
the basis to calibrate the travel demand model and to identify any capacity deficiencies that may exist today.
The highest traffic volumes in Kearns are on 6200 South. 6200 south is a five-lane arterial road designed to 
move regional traffic through town. All along 6200 South in Kearns the traffic volume exceeds 30,000 vehicles 
per day. The highest daily traffic volumes outside of the Township are east of 4000 West which experiences 
39,000 vehicles per day. Traffic volumes on the other east-west corridors through Kearns are also high, exceeding 
20,000 vehicles per day on average on both S.R. 173 (5400 S) and 4700 S. North-South traffic is not as severe as 
the two major north-south routes through the area, which are S.R. 172 (5600 West), and Bangerter Highway (S.R. 
154), both of which are just outside the Township boundary.
Level of Service (LOS) describes the operating performance of an intersection or roadway. LOS is measured 
quantitatively and is reported on a scale from A to F, with A representing the best performance and F the worst. 
For unsignalized intersections, LOS is reported based on the average vehicle delay for the worst approach. While 
for signalized intersections, an overall LOS is reported for the entire intersection based on the average delay of 
all vehicles. Table 2-3 provides a brief explanation for each LOS and the associated average delay per vehicle for 
signalized intersections.
Table 2-3: Level of Service
Roadway level of service is typically displayed in the relationship between the traffic volume and the roadway 
capacity (generally the number of lanes), or a V/C ratio. This is the measure displayed in Figure 2-10.
Some congestion occurs at a LOS D, but the transportation system is assumed to be adequate (not failing) at this 
level. LOS D was identified as the planning goal for Kearns in the peak traffic hours, meaning that LOS E and F are 
unacceptable. Although LOS D is a planning goal, roadway LOS may vary on a street-by-street basis. Roadway 
capacity cannot be scaled to exactly fit demand since demand varies by time of day, day of week, and time of year.
While the travel demand model is used to predict future traffic and level of service, it can also be used to estimate 
15
METRO  TOWNSHIP
current conditions. Existing conditions were modeled with a 2019 base year for Kearns functionally 
classified roadway network. Figure 2-12 summarizes the existing LOS within Kearns. Green roads have 
little or no traffic congestion, corresponding to LOS A, B or C, while yellow roads have “peak hour” traffic 
congestion, and red roads have significant traffic congestion. Currently, 6200 S experiences congestion 
during the peak hours. This is also true for 4700 S. east of 4800 W. During these periods there can be delays and 
queuing at the signalized intersections along the corridor. There are minimal delays on the other roadways 
in Kearns.
Figure 2-10: Existing Level of Service
16
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Intervals of Peak Congestion
Annual Average Daily Traffic or AADT is a primary factor in 
determining LOS, which is the efficiency of a roadway to move 
vehicles. AADT, as the name implies is derived by taking a yearly 
traffic count and dividing that total by the 365 days of the year. This 
information is used when determining the performance grade of 
A-F for a specific roadway segment.
However, while the AADT may determine the average traffic 
volume for a given day, it’s analysis may be lacking the fine-grained 
perspective to account for fluctuation in congestion throughout a 
specific day along a  section of roadway. 
The images to the right display congestion along 5400 South 
and Cougar Lane in Kearns at various times of the day. This data 
is collected from GPS vehicle navigation devices and has been 
purchased by UDOT. A quick glance at the images makes it clear 
that there are at least certain times of the day where congestion is 
an issue at this location. While the AADT reveals the broader picture 
of free flow operations with minimal delays,  it should also be noted 
that there are peak intervals of roughly five to ten minutes where 
traffic operations can have significant or excessive delays within a 
24 hour period.
Below is a photograph looking  west at the Union Pacific train 
crossing and the Cougar Lane intersection along 5400 South.  Traffic 
is beginning to become delayed in the westbound direction, while 
it is free flowing heading east.
17
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Safety
Crash data from 2014 through 2019 for vehicles, bi-
cycles, and pedestrians were analyzed in Kearns. This 
data was utilized to identify potential crash hotspots 
and high-risk areas to address the overall safety of 
residents. In the past five years there have been over 
3,300 reported crashes in Kearns, of these, 13 were 
fatal. 
Of the 3,354 crashes that were in Kearns, angle crashes 
(crashes with vehicles turning left) were the most 
common collision representing 33% of crashes (1,101), 
followed by rear end crashes at 28% (938). Based 
upon the review of the crash data, these results are 
typical of other areas of the county and state. The 
safety improvements specified in this master plan are 
designed to reduce these crashes.
Figure 2-12: Map of Crashes by Manner of Collision
Figure 2-11: Crashes by Manner of CollisionManner of Collision
396, 12%  Single Vehicle 
1101, 33%  Angle
938, 28%  Front to Rear
136, 4%  Head On
418, 12%  Parked Vehicle
62, 2% Sideswipe Opposite Direction
287, 9%  Sideswipe Same Direction
18
METRO  TOWNSHIP
While 3,300 crashes seems like a high number of crashes, 
the number is not to be unexpected considering the 
roadway types and volumes. Of the 3,354 crashes in Kearns 
over 60% occur on 4 roads, 4700 South, 5400 South, 6200 
South and 5600 West. These arterials also carry the most 
vehicles. The number of crashes in 2018 was down to 581 
from the 728 crashes that occurred in 2017. 
Most of the crashes resulted in no injuries. These 2,334 
crashes were fender bender or property damage only 
crashes. The most concerning crashes totaled 83 and 
include both serious injury (70) and fatalities (13). Many of 
the 83 crashes occurred at intersections on the high volume 
roads discussed in the previous paragraph. 
Figure 2-14: Map of Crashes by Severity
Figure 2-13: Crashes by Severity
Severity
13, 0.4% Fatal
70, 2% Serious Injury
325, 10% Minor Injury
612, 18% Possible Injury
2334, 70% No Injury
19
METRO  TOWNSHIP
3, 4.5% Fatal
8, 12% Serious Injury
25, 37% Minor Injury
31, 46% Possible Injury
0, 0% No Injury
Pedestrian involved crashes 
There have been 67 recorded pedestrian crashes in Kearns during 
the years of analysis. Out of these 67, three were fatalities and 
eight were categorized as serious injury. 33 of the total 67 crashes, 
including the three fatalities, occurred while it was either dark, 
at dusk, or at dawn. In nearly half of the crashes the vehicle was 
driving straight, while 21 percent involved a left turn, and 27 
percent involved a right turn.
Vehicle crashes involving pedestrians have a higher probability 
of serious or fatal injury.  When pedestrian fatalities and serious 
injury crashes are combined, they make up 16 percent of the total 
amount of pedestrian crashes in Kearns. This ratio is much higher 
than the total for overall crashes (discussed on the previous page) 
that involve either a fatality or serious injury, which is below three 
percent. 
Figure 2-15: Pedestrian Crashes 
Figure 2-16: Map of Pedestrian Crashes 
20
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Bicycle involved crashes 
There has been a total of 20 vehicle crashes involving a bicycle in Kearns during the years of analysis. Out 
of these 20, there has been one fatality and one serious injury crash.  While the fatality occurred while it 
was dark out, 75 percent of the bicycle crashes happened during daylight hours. 
The location for the majority of the bicycle involved crashes follow a similar pattern to both the pedestrian 
involved crashes and overall crashes.  The pattern is that these crashes 
occur most frequently at places with either wide roads, high speeds, 
high traffic volume or a combination of the three. In Kearns, these 
are roads like 5400 South, 4015 West and 4700 South.
Bicycle crashes that involve a vehicle making a right turn are 
common, and in Kearns they make up 50 percent of bicycle 
crashes.  Drivers may be unaware that a bicyclist is near their 
vehicle while they are scanning for a break in traffic while they turn 
as simultaneously looking in the opposite direction of the bicyclist 
on their right. Either a traffic light or a stop sign was at the location 
of 80 percent of the right turn crashes, indicating that traffic control 
devices alone will not increase awareness of bicyclists.
Figure 2-18: Map of Bicycle Crashes 
1, 5% Fatal
1, 5% Serious Injury
9, 45% Minor Injury
8, 40% Possible Injury
1, 5% No Injury
Figure 2-17: Bicycle Crashes 
21
METRO  TOWNSHIP
2019  Crash Data
At the time of writing this report the 2019 crash data is still 
incomplete and the collected information is in the process 
of being organized and verified. However, a majority of the 
crash numbers and locations are available for the general 
Salt Lake County area that makes up Kearns. These crash 
numbers which are represented in the chart to the right 
may include areas that are slightly beyond the boundary of 
Kearns, so they should be taken as approximate and not a 
final set total number. The map in Figure 2-20 is showing data 
from the same geographic area and only displays fatalities. 
There were four fatalities in the general Kearns area in 2019, 
two of which occurred on the Mountain View Corridor.
Figure 2-20: Map of 2019 Fatalities
4, 1% Fatal
25, 5% Serious Injury
52, 10% Minor Injury
85, 16% Possible Injury
359, 68% No Injury
Figure 2-19: 2019 Crash Severity
22
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Active Transportation
An active transportation network is a key component of a transportation system because it provides 
mobility options for all residents. Making walking and biking safe and convenient is a key goal of the 
transportation plan. Benefits of a practical and accessible active transportation network are both long term 
and immediate and range from improving physical and mental health, decreasing noise and air pollution and 
increasing property values that are located along the network. The more transportation choices that exists 
the more the community will be connected. While freeways and expressways favor the speeds associated 
with mobility, with a robust active transportation network the arterials, collectors and local roads can provide 
a wide array of accessibility options to origins and destinations, connecting neighborhoods, downtowns, parks, 
schools, place of work and worship, shopping spots, etc. to everyone  from age four to one hundred and four. 
Salt Lake County Office of Regional Development has established a vision for active transportation in the county. 
The Mission of the Salt Lake County Active Transportation Plan is to provide safe, convenient and feasible active 
transportation in Salt Lake County for all people of all ages and abilities through encouragement, collaboration, 
and education. The established goals for active transportation are as follows:
1
 . Implement a pedestrian and Bike T
ransportation Improvement Program (BTIP) for county communities that is 
accessible to all.
2
 . Coordinate planning and implementation of activ
e transportation facilities and programs with agencies and 
adjoining communities.
3
 . Implement the County complete str
eet policy in unincorporated SL County while actively searching for 
opportunities to further improve active transportation.
4
 . Advocate and pro
vide technical resources to further support self-reliance of our traveling public for active 
transportation including: the Salt Lake County Bicycle Advisory Committee (SLCBAC), Salt Lake County Bicycle 
Ambassador Program, Safe Routes to School, and other related programs.
While the established goals and vision of the Salt Lake County Active Transportation Plan specifically call 
out unincorporated communities they are no less relevant to transportation planning for Kearns. The active 
transportation component of a plan ensures that mobility options/alternatives are being legitimately considered 
for those who do not solely rely on automotive technology for travel. The result is a more inclusive community 
vision. 
Bike Lanes
According to the Salt Lake Township / Salt Lake 
County Bikeways Map provided by BikeSLC, 
most of the east-west roads through Kearns are 
listed as “Very Low Comfort” for bicyclists. North-
south connectivity is better with most roads 
falling in the “Medium Comfort” category. The 
only currently existing bike lane in Kearns is on 
4800 West / Cougar Lane. That bike facility does 
include an above the curb bike lane between 
5400 South and Kearns High School.
Kearns has an opportunity to expand bike lanes 
throughout the community to create safe riding 
spaces for all abilities.
Kearn’s bicycle rider on sidewalk
23
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Trails
As a very urban community, there is 
not a robust, connected trails system 
in Kearns. Sidewalk provides much of 
the pedestrian connectivity between 
different areas of town. A full sidewalk 
plan is included in section 5. 
There is one paved trail in Kearns along 
the north side of 4700 South. A map 
of the existing active transportation 
network is shown in figure 2-21.
Figure 2-21-: Existing Active Transportation
 
24
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Transit
Kearns is served well by UTA’s (Utah Transit Authority)bus routes which run east to west through the 
township on 15 minutes intervals and north to south on 30 minute intervals. Limited bus service via the 
F556 Flex Route are also available on 5600 W. The full UTA bus route availability for Kearns is shown in table 
2-4.
Table 2-4: Transit Routes in Kearns
ROUTE # FREQUENCY AVG WEEKDAY 
RIDES (2019)
STREETS TRAVERSED
F556 (Flex) Limited 118 5600 W, 5400 S, Copper Township Dr., 6200 S 
47 15 Minute 1,477 4700 S
54 15 Minute 1,322 5400 S, Copper Township Dr., 5600 W, 6200 S, 
Lodestone Ave.
62 30 Minute 269 6200 S, 5600 W, Lodestone Ave., Copper Township Dr.
248 30 Minute 319 4800 W
240 30 Minute 797 4000 W, 4700 S, 4420 W, 5215 S
Figure 2-22: Existing Transit
25
METRO  TOWNSHIP
There are several well utilized routes serving 
neighborhoods across Kearns. UTA route 54 
serves on average 1,420 riders per day which is 
19 riders per hour. This route is also well utilized 
and runs through the center of Kearns.
People getting on at bus stops are called 
‘boardings‘ and people getting off at bus stops are 
called ‘alightings.‘ Figure 2-23 shows the average 
weekday boardings and alightings in Kearns. The 
larger circles indicate more use at those bus stops. 
UTA Route 62 in Kearns
Figure 2-23: Transit Alightings and Boardings
26
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Future Forecasts
This chapter discusses the background and assumptions used to forecast transportation related 
growth in Kearns. Using travel demand modeling techniques in conjunction with projected socioeconomic, 
population, and employment trends, future transportation demands were forecast. Changes that are already 
committed by agencies such as UDOT and WFRC were included in the transportation forecasting prior to 
recommending any transportation improvements for Kearns Metro Township. Other projects which are 
planned but not committed are also recommended as part of this process.
Future Growth
Most of the projected socioeconomic data used in this study comes from the modeling used for the WFRC Long 
Range Plan. The future we are planning for revolves around very slight population growth. The projected 2050 
population in Kearns is only slightly higher than it is today remaining at just over 36,000 people. Job growth is 
also expected to remain relatively stable over the next 30 years. This plan reflects this stability. Figure 3-1 is a map 
showing the limited growth and generally where this growth is likely to occur. While many neighborhoods don’t 
show strong population growth, they may experience redevelopment that could lead to more housing but a 
lower number of people per household. Again these projected changes are reflected in the travel demand model 
and transportation projects in this plan. Figure 3-1: Forecasted Growth in Kearns
3 WHERE WE ARE GOING
27
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Travel Model Development
Projecting future travel demand is a function of projected land use and socioeconomic conditions. The 
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Travel Demand Model (TDM) was used to predict future traffic 
patterns and travel demand. The travel demand model was modified to reflect better accuracy through 
the Kearns area by creating smaller Traffic Analysis Zones (TAZ) and a more accurate and extensive roadway 
network. Existing conditions were simulated in the TDM and compared to the observed traffic count data 
to get a reasonable base line for future travel demand. Once this effort was completed, future land uses, 
and socioeconomic data were input into the model to predict the roadway conditions for the design year 
2050. 2050 was selected as the planning year horizon to be consistent with the WFRC planning process. The 
2019-2050 Regional Transportation Plan, RTP , (available at www.WFRC.org) was adopted by the Wasatch Front 
Regional Council in May of 2019. The RTP is a guide to maintain and enhance the regional transportation system 
for Salt Lake, Weber, and Davis Counties. This chapter evaluates the existing transportation system within the 
metro township and establishes the framework for the development of the transportation plan. This analysis 
includes a description of the land use as well as the demographic profile of the metro township and how these 
factors affect the transportation system. 
Land Use’s Effect on Transportation 
Kearns is expected to maintain its stable, slow growth in the coming years. Kearns’ population is projected to 
grow only by approximately 1,000 people over the next 30 years. Much, if not all, of the expected development 
growth in Kearns will be through re-development or infill. 
Kearns is currently mostly a bedroom community with more households than jobs. Still it does maintain a mix 
of residential, commercial, and industrial land uses in some areas. As Kearns sees a demand for re-development 
and infill, maintaining this balance will be important. Residential areas will still encompass most of the land use 
in Kearns; however, there is re-development potential to include a mix of land uses and housing types.  
Aging infrastructure will be more of a priority for Kearns as the township ages without the aid of development 
to offset the cost of new infrastructure. Maintaining the existing roads, sidewalk, signals, and other infrastructure 
must be prioritized as budgets are proposed in the future.
Model Years & Results
Projected Traffic Volumes & Conditions
The resulting outputs of the travel demand model were made up of traffic volumes on all the classified streets in 
the township and surrounding area. This data were used to identify the need for future roadway improvements 
to accommodate growth regionally as much of the traffic in Kearns either commutes to or from adjacent 
communities or simply passes through. The following two scenarios were analyzed in detail to assess the travel 
demand and resulting network performance in the County at large:
 » No-Build
 » Recommended Roadway Network
28
METRO  TOWNSHIP
No-Build Conditions
A no-build scenario is intended to show what the roadway 
network would be like in the future if no action were taken 
to improve the township, county or UDOT roadway network. 
The travel demand model again used to predict this 
condition by applying the future growth and travel demand 
to the existing roadway network. As shown in Figure 3-2, 
if no improvements are made to Kearns’ transportation 
infrastructure, projected traffic volumes for the planning 
year 2050 will significantly worsen the LOS of many of the 
major streets and intersections throughout the township. 
The following list includes the streets expected to perform 
at LOS D or worse:
LOS D (Peak Congestion but 
Acceptable)
 » 4800 West (5415 South to 6200 South) 
 » 4820 West (5215 South to 5415 South)
 » 6200 South (5600 West to 4800 West)
LOS E or Worse (Unacceptable)
 » 4700 South (4800 West to 4015 West)
 » 6200 South (4800 West to 4000 West)
Figure 3-2: 2050 No Build Level of Service
29
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Recommended 2050 Roadway Conditions
Improvements will need to be made in Kearns to preserve the quality of life and to maintain an 
acceptable LOS on the township streets and intersections. These improvements will also provide a sound 
street system that will support the township’s economic base.
Signals will need to be monitored and updated as conditions change. It is recommended that the signalized 
intersections in the area be regularly monitored, and signal timings adjusted as needed to maintain acceptable 
operating conditions. Coordination with UDOT will be necessary on all UDOT roads. Additionally, care should 
be taken to regularly monitor the non-signalized intersections and, where appropriate, studies should be 
completed to determine the best control for the intersection. The most common mitigations to failing non-
signalized intersections are roundabouts and traffic signals. For each intersection, both roundabout and traffic 
signal solutions should be investigated and studied to determine the best alternative. Funding sources for 
signals and roundabouts should be explored and may include general funds, impact fees, where appropriate, 
and/or a special transportation improvement fund.
The future analysis in Kearns can be split into three sections. The first are regional projects included in WRFC’s 
RTP . These projects may be funded in part by WFRC. After determining where the improvements occur with 
the addition of the WFRC projects, the second section includes the rest of the projects necessary to improve 
the roadway network to LOS D or better. Finally, the third section includes projects that aren’t necessarily 
capacity improvements but may be more related to safety or accessibility. These projects are identified in the 
areas of concern analysis in Chapter 4.
Regional Transportation Plan
Kearns and Salt Lake County are not alone in improving the roadway network. WFRC, in cooperation with 
UDOT, provides financial assistance for projects included in their Regional Transportation Plan (RTP). If the 
roadway is included on the RTP and is owned and operated by UDOT, full financial responsibility falls to UDOT. 
It is important for Kearns to include these projects in this MTP as well as coordinate with UDOT to ensure 
these projects are implemented. If the roadway is on the RTP and not owned by UDOT, Kearns may be able to 
apply for funding through WFRC, in which case, the township will only be responsible to match 6.77% of the 
total cost of the project. The projects in Kearns included on the RTP are to be completed in various phases. An 
interactive map can be viewed on WFRC’s website www.wfrc.org:
PHASE 1 (2019-2030)
 » 5600 West Corridor
    Express Bus
 » 5400 S Corridor
 Core Bus Service
 » 4700 South
 Road Widening
 » 4700 South / 4715 South
 Bike Lane
 » 6200 South / Bennion Blvd
 Bike Lane
 » 5600 West Park & Ride
 Park & Ride
PHASE 2 (2031-2040)
 » 6200 South
 Core Bus Service
 » 6200 South
 Road Widening
 » West Sam’s Blvd to Northwest Ave
 Bike Lane
 » Cougar Lane
 Buffered Bike Lane
 » Midway Drive
 Shared Use Path
 » 4015 West to 4000 West
 Bike Lane
30
METRO  TOWNSHIP
2050 Proposed Roadway Network 
The indicated roadway segments previously listed, as well as the additional modeling results form 
the basis of the improvements included in the 2050 roadway improvements. With all projects included, 
Figure 3-3 shows the proposed 2050 roadway network and LOS with all future projects (including WFRC RTP 
projects). These projects refine the planned regional projects to better match Kearns individual needs and 
priorities. Applying all improvements will advance the roadway network to function at LOS D or better in all 
locations.
Figure 3-3: 2050 Planned Level of Service
 31
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Percent of Additional Capacity
 The previous map, Figure 3-3, shows Kearns having a roadway network with primarily free flowing and 
smooth operations across the Township with the exception of 4800 West where LOS is still functioning 
as acceptable. This means that the future available supply of roadway will meet the traffic demand and 
have additional capacity. Below,  Figure 3-4 shows the percentage of additional available capacity for the 
roadway network in Kearns if the proposed improvements are implemented.
Figure 3-4: 2050 Additional Capacity
Summary of What The Future Holds
With the stable growth of Kearns and surrounding communities, much of the needed transportation improvement 
revolves around safety, pedestrian mobility, and active transportation. Kearns is not alone in planning for future 
growth and WFRC has identified key improvements to the regional roadway, transit, and active transportation 
networks to accommodate future demand. These regional capacity improvements reduce future congestion on 
the functionally classified roads within the township and provide needed transit and active transportation facilities. 
To address remaining needs, additional projects were identified that reflect community input and local priorities. 
With these additional projects the roadway system is anticipated to function at an acceptable level of service with 
minimal delays through the planning year 2050.
32
METRO  TOWNSHIP
4 AREAS OF CONCERN
Several areas in Kearns raise concern in regards to transportation issues. These locations,  which  
are identified in this chapter, have diverse transportation needs and concerns that range from 
pedestrian issues, to traffic calming, to travel behaviors. The specific areas are shown in the map in 
Figure 4-1. 
The individual hotspot issues are summarized in fact sheets on the subsequent pages. The hotspot fact 
sheets are either one or two pages in length and generally include recommendations or takeaways from 
the transportation analysis completed.  The hotspot fact sheets are designed to define the problem, provide 
some data, and offer insight into possible solutions.    
Figure 4-1: Map of Hotspot Areas
33
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Salem Ave
Northwest Avenue, Salem Avenue, and 4280 West are all 
segments of the same road, stretching a little over a mile 
in length.
For years, residents living on all three sections have been 
complaining about speeding vehicles and dangerous 
traffic conditions, which exist along the entire length 
of the road. This puts the residents and their children in 
this neighborhood at risk. People race down this street 
despite speed bumps and the Salem Circle cul-de-sac 
to the south. They would like to see slower traffic in their 
neighborhood.
All along this road the posted speed limit is 25 mph. North 
of 5400 S the road is 35 feet wide and south of 5400 S 
the road becomes 40 feet wide This means that where the 
road is 40 feet vehicles have 20 foot wide lanes to travel 
in and at the road’s narrowest, lanes are over 16 feet wide. 
To compare, a standard highway lane along I-80 is only 12 
feet wide. This amount of pavement messages to drivers 
that high speeds are acceptable, which is incongruent 
with the posted speed limit. Electronic radar speed signs 
are used to display vehicle speeds and speed bumps are 
installed on the southern portion of the road.  However, 
no where along the road is the shoulder striped and 
there is no center lane striping on the southern portion 
of the road. The 35 foot wide section has painted bicycle 
sharrows, but those become unsafe when traffic speeds 
rise above 25 mph. Overall, the design speed on this road 
is far higher than the posted legal speed limit, so drivers 
speed. Additional traffic calming measures are needed 
here, specifically, speed tables should be considered. 
4280 West
Conclusion: Additional traffic 
calming measures should be considered 
on these roadways including the use 
of speed tables to Salem Avenue and 
4280 West. Lane narrowing could also 
be considered with striping.
Northwest Avenue
Northwest Ave, Salem Ave, & 4280 W
Salem Cir.
5615 South
Cougar Lane
Salem Ave
Northwest Ave.
5400 South
4280 West
N
34
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Northwest Ave, Salem Ave, & 4280 W 4015 West S-Curve
4015 West is a three-lane collector roadway with one travel lane in each direction with a two-way 
left-turn lane (TWLTL) and shoulders. Between 5780 South and 5855 South the road has an s-curve 
that shifts the alignment of the roadway and a posted speed limit of 35 mph. In the 2014-2018 crash 
analysis period, there have been three crashes on this segment of roadway including ten crashes since 
2011. Most of the crashes (seven) were due 
to vehicles running off the road and hitting 
fixed objects such as a fence or parked 
vehicles. As a result, the s-curve creates safety 
concern for residents and township officials.
To identify potential issues and existing traffic 
operations, traffic counts were collected just 
to the north and the south of the s-curve at 
approximately 5878 South and 5780 South. 
The traffic counts included traffic volumes 
and traffic speeds. Based upon the count 
data:
 » Average daily traffic volume was 9,480 vehicles per day.
 » The average speeds were 33 mph northbound and 34 mph 
southbound.
 » Total of 3 crashes with 2 single vehicle and 1 angle crashes 
between 2014 and 2018.
In addition to the average speed and traffic volume, the 
traffic counts identified the 85th percentile speed. The 85th 
percentile speed is used as a standard to set the speed limit at 
a safe speed, minimizing crashes and promoting uniform traffic 
flow. The average speeds and the 85th percentile speeds are 
shown in Figure 4-2 along with the posted speed limit of 35 
mph on 4015 West. The average speeds are just below the post 
speed limit while the 85th percentile speeds are slightly above 
the 35 mph speed limits.
When a speed limit is established it should be within five mph 
of the 85th percentile speed. The 85th percentile speed reflects 
the collective judgment of most drivers and setting speed limits 
lower than 85th percentile speed encourages non-compliance 
with the posted speed limit. Based upon the collected speed 
data, the posted speed limit is appropriate for the existing 
driver behavior. If lower speeds and a lower posted speed 
limit is to be considered, additional traffic calming measures 
that physically alter the vertical or horizontal alignment of the 
roadway would be required. These traffic calming measures 
could include vertical changes such as speed tables or raised 
intersections or horizontal changes like lane narrowing or curb 
bulb-outs on adjacent intersections narrowing the roadway 
and slow drivers could be implemented.
Conclusion: Existing data 
does not show a speed or 
crash problem near the s-curve. 
However, striping improvements 
can be implemented to help 
clarify right-of-way, narrow travel 
lanes, and reduce traffic speeds 
to address resident’s concerns.
4000 West
4015 West
W 5855 South
5745 South
Figure 4-2: Graph of 85th percentile 
speeds along 4015 West 
35
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Thomas Jefferson Junior High School is home 
to nearly 800 students aged 13-15. Many of 
them walk to and from school. The crosswalk 
in front of the school at 5600 West sees a large 
number of students in a short time - nearly 
half the school population crosses 5600 West 
in about 30 minutes. Once across the street, 
students are met with a half-mile long walk. 
There is no immediate pedestrian access into the 
neighborhood to the east. To access it, students 
must walk a quarter mile in either direction to 
get into the neighborhood or they must jaywalk 
across 5600 West at Lodestone Avenue. This is 
not a comfortable walk for an adult, much less a 
teenager. 
Thomas Jefferson Junior High School
Plumbago Ave.
Vista Ridge Way
Lodestone Ave
Lodestone Ave
5625 West
Sunlight Dr
Sunkist Dr
5600 West
Thomas Jeﬀerson
Jr. High
5360 West
Stone Bluﬀ Way
5600 West through Kearns provides passage for nearly 20,000 cars per day. 5600 West is a dangerous road, classified 
by UDOT as being in the 76%-94% crash rate percentile. The rate of crashes has remained pretty steady since 2010, 
and there have been four fatalities. There is good neighborhood connectivity to the north, and south of the school, 
but no access to the west, and very limited access to the east.
Photo showing the crosswalk and east side wall
36
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Thomas Jefferson Junior High School
Ideally junior high students would be able to walk to their homes east of the school by passing 
through a break in the walk. Several schools in Salt Lake County have similar situations with a five or 
six foot sidewalk between property lines at the end of a cul-de-sac to allows for this neighborhood 
pedestrian access. Kearns is currently in the process of working with UDOT, the Junior High, and 
residents to consider this type of pedestrian improvement along 5600 West.  
Conclusion: Kearns should work with UDOT to 
construction sidewalks on UDOT’s vacant parcel 
east of 5600 West. This includes completing 
sidewalks on Lodestone Avenue between 5600 
West and Dewdrops Drive. Additionally, there  
is the potential to work with UDOT to create an 
easement and construct a sidewalk between 5600 
West and the neighborhoods to the north east of 
the high school. This connection could reduce 
walking distance by up to 900’ feet for students 
that live east of the school.
Students walking along the wall
37
METRO  TOWNSHIP
KHS Student Safety & Connectivity
Kearns High School is the main public high 
school for residents of the Township. Located 
in an area that is heavily auto-centric and with 
serious barriers to pedestrian accessibility, 
mobility, and connectivity. Students face 
dangerous challenges trying to get to and from 
school either in a car or walking. 
Residents living east of Kearns High are separated 
by a Union Pacific rail line. The line stretches for 
2.5 miles, across the entire width of Kearns, with 
crossings at 4700 South, 5400 South and 6200 
South and because of this, it poses a significant 
barrier to students walking to school. 
As a result, there are informal paths to the east, 
west, and north of Kearns High. The railroad line 
between Northwest Avenue and Kearns High 
School is a high-use pedestrian area. There are 
numerous existing informal trails (many shown 
in yellow), connecting into the surrounding 
neighborhood. There are also trails east of the high 
school as well. The sheer volume and use of these 
trails demonstrates the need for good pedestrian 
access from the east side.
Kearns High has no documentation for students 
regarding getting to school safely. 
This is a connectivity issue between Kearns High 
and the surrounding neighborhoods. As with most 
schools in Utah, students walk, bike, bus, drive, 
or carpool to and from school. With nearly 2,500 
students, and parking spaces for approximately 
350 cars (15%), only a small population of students 
can park at the school. The number of students 
who get to school by bus remains low, as Kearns 
offers bus service only to students who live beyond 
a two miles walking distance from school property. 
This means many students do and will continue to 
travel to school on foot. Both the statistics and the 
current behavior of students demonstrate a need 
for safe and walkable paths that are designed and 
located appropriately for ease of use to and from 
school.
5400 South
Cougar Lane (4800 West)
Northwest Ave
N
38
METRO  TOWNSHIP
KHS Student Safety & Connectivity
Informal pathway leading over 
the train tracks to the high 
school
So persistent is the issue of 
student connectivity that 
residents have been forced to 
devise their own solutions to 
get students to school
 
Students using paths across 
train tracks to walk home
Student walking along the 
train tracks with headphones 
on
Informal pathway leading over 
the train tracks to the high 
school
Students using paths across 
train tracks to walk home
5400 South has no protective 
barrier (trees, shrubs, etc
 ), 
to shield students and other 
pedestrians from adjacen
t traffic 
and has a narrow sidewalk on a 
road with no shoulder
  
The route along 4800 West 
(Cougar Lane) is steep and 
inconvenient and adds at least 
one quarter of a mile to many 
trips
 
Conclusion: Currently, the Union Pacific line runs only one train per 
day at the very early hours of the morning.  Otherwise, the tracks remain 
dormant. It is recommended that long term active transportation 
design concepts be evaluated for the area around 5400 South and 
Northwest Ave. In the mean time the access points presently used 
along the Union Pacific line may be the safest way for students to get 
to school. Further study of travel behavior should be observed and 
data collected for analysis. These informal routes may benefit from 
infrastructure and safety improvements. 
39
METRO  TOWNSHIP
New Library & Pedestrian Plaza
Renderings of the new SLCo Kearns Library with pedestrian plaza  Image Source: Arch Nexus 
The new 35,000 square foot Salt Lake C
ounty Kearns Library is being built next to the old 
library just north of 5415 South. The new site reorients the library along 5415 South to increase 
its visibility, access, and usability. The new library includes a 2,100 square foot landscaped 
pedestrian plaza to bring residents together and create an inclusive community gathering 
place. This design combines a variety of uses, experiences, access points and places to interact, 
and will ultimately help strengthen the Kearns community by creating an inclusive public 
environment. The new library is planned to be completed by the summer of 2020. 
40
METRO  TOWNSHIP
New Library & Pedestrian Plaza
Source:  Arch Nexus site plan showing all parking lots and vehicle entrances and 
exits (purple arrows).
The library will have three points of vehicle access - a large public parking lot on 5345 South (the site of the 
old library), a smaller parking lot off 4280 West, a public driveway off of 5375 South, and an employee parking 
lot off 4320 West. There is no planned access from 5415 South.  Traffic to and from the library and 5415 South 
will be distributed at the intersections of 4320 West and 4220 West which is signalized.
It is planned that the new library will have double the vehicle parking spots as the old library, including 5 ADA 
spaces, five green vehicles spaces, five carpool spaces, one expectant mother space, and two electric vehicle 
charging spaces. Also, the site will have a bike parking rack and a skateboard rack. With expanded vehicle 
parking, bike amenities, and broader, more walkable sidewalks, this new library and the adjacent pedestrian 
plaza are expected to increase traffic to the library. However, there are major pedestrian accesses on the north, 
west, south, and southeast sides of the property that provide nearby residents mobility options. The diversity of 
mobility options, and distributed access means that the new library is not expected to have a significant impact 
on the overall traffic on 5415 South. There may be increased vehicle traffic at the intersection of 4220 West and 
4320 West, and in the surrounding neighborhood roads (5375 S., 4280 W., 5345 ).
Conclusion: The new 
library will have minimal 
impact on traffic on 5415 
South due multi-modal 
design elements, no direct 
access on 5415 south, and 
traffic being distributed 
between multiple 
intersections including 
signalized intersection at 
4220 West.
5415  South
5375  South
5345  South
New Kearns
Library
4320  West
4280  West
4220  West
N
41
METRO  TOWNSHIP
5400 S. Westbound Left Turn Lanes
On 5400 South there are two westbound left turn lanes that start about 500 feet east of the intersection 
at Northwest Avenue. The inner left turn lane (shown in green) is for drivers to turn left onto Northwest 
Avenue. The adjacent turn lane (in red) is intended to help handle high traffic volumes that turn left at 
4800 West (Cougar Lane). 
However, this section of road experiences a high number of crashes and subsequent injuries. For westbound 
drivers, the only indicators that a vehicle is in the left turn for 4800 West are two “4800 W Only” painted 
directly onto the lane. No other signage, either on the road, the verge, or on the intersection signal pole 
have been installed. The drivers who want to go straight through both intersections (Northwest Avenue 
and 4800 West) are supposed to be in the through lane (in yellow). However, this is not apparent early 
enough for drivers to ensure they are in the correct lane before reaching the intersection at Northwest 
Avenue.
 This lack of warning can lead to hazardous driver behavior. It was also observed that drivers tend to use 
the 4800 West left turn lane at the intersection of Northwest Avenue to speed ahead of those in the 
through lane when the light turned green. This situation creates unnecessary points of conflict and makes 
this a dangerous intersection. Nearly 70% of reported crashes in this intersection were either intersection 
or road-geometry related and involving the left turn lanes. Over half of all the crashes resulted in injuries. 
This striping pattern was intended to mitigate the hazards of poor visibility for drivers turning left and 
the high volumes of vehicles waiting to turn, which used to back up to Northwest Avenue from the 4800 
West intersection. The present concern is that the lack of advanced notification leads to problems, causes 
crashes, and increases the danger of the Northwest Avenue intersection. 
5400 South
Northwest Ave
Cougar Lane (4800 West)
Lane Markings
N
42
METRO  TOWNSHIP
5400 S. Westbound Left Turn Lanes
4800 West
Only
Northwest
Ave
Only
4800 W
Northwest
Ave
4800 W.
Northwest
Ave
Conclusion: The intersection of 5400 
South and Northwest Avenue would be 
improved with advance signage and a 
westbound right-turn lane. 
Also, additional crossing and intersection 
related lighting and signaling could be 
installed west of Cougar Lane and the 
curve in the road to alert eastbound traffic 
of turning cars and pedestrians.
Since this intersection is part of UDOT’s 
jurisdiction, coordination will be required.
There is no problem with the roadway striping, but added 
signage could improve driver behavior in this area. Overhead 
signs associated with each of the westbound lanes would 
improve driver understanding and reduce crashes. to the right 
are some examples of overhead signs that could be used. 
The overhead signs would need to be installed prior to (east 
of ) the intersection of Northwest Ave. This will allow drivers 
approaching the  intersection to be in the correct lane. 
The intersection may also see improved lane utilization if a 
westbound right-turn lane was added. Some drivers treat the 
right-most lane as a right-turn lane instead of a right-through, 
avoiding it and queuing into only one through lane. The 
addition of a right-turn lane would eliminate confusion and 
improve lane utilization with two clear through lanes. 
Intersection of 5400 South and Cougar 
Lane
West beyond Northwest Ave and the intersection of Cougar 
Lane the road raises in elevation and  curves  enough to where 
signage is required to alert drivers of the change in roadway 
geometry. Drivers heading from the west have poor visibility as 
they approach the intersections of Cougar Lane and Northwest 
Ave. This is due to a combination of the difference in elevation, 
the curve in the road, and a Union Pacific Railroad bridge that is 
located in between the two intersections which obstructs the 
driver’s view of the road beyond it while traveling eastbound. 
Regardless of the limitation in visibility and the potential conflict 
with cars, pedestrians , and cyclists crossing or turning at these 
intersections, eastbound vehicles will attempt to beat the read 
lights at these intersections. 
The combination of eastbound traffic exhibiting risky behavior 
and the issues with the left turn lanes at the previously discussed 
intersections makes this stretch of 5400 South a safety concern. 
There were 687 crashes along 5400 South in Kearns between 
the years of 2014 and 2018.  Over 200 of these crashes occurred 
between the area that begins 1,000-feet east of the Northwest 
Ave and ends about 1,000-feet after the curve in the road 
straightens out west of Cougar Lane. Of these crashes, seven 
were pedestrian related and three were bicycle related, with one 
of the bicycle crashes resulting in a fatality at the intersection of 
Northwest Ave and 5400 South.   
43
METRO  TOWNSHIP
6200 South Multi-Township Collaboration
6200 South is a 5.5 mile stretch of road that runs east-west and 
is the southern boarder of Kearns. Over an average day, some 
sections of 6200 South see as little as 1,100 cars per day while 
other sections of the same road have nearly 40,000 vehicles 
per day. Throughout its length, the jurisdiction and ownership 
change hands multiple times As seen in the map to the right, 
the cities of West Jordan, Taylorsville, West Valley, and the Kearns 
Township each have a claim over the street. The jurisdictions also 
differs depending on the specific application (snow removal, 
construction, utility/infrastructure, potholes, road maintenance, 
etc.). Depending on the application, Salt Lake County, and UDOT 
also become involved in places. In all applications, municipal 
ownership and responsibility of the left turn lane are vague at 
best. The lack of a unified plan and unified jurisdictional map 
creates a series of challenges for township officials, public utilities, 
first responders, public works, and residents. 
For crashes and other incidents taking place on 6200 South, 
emergency dispatchers must first determine jurisdiction before 
sending out police, EMTs, and other first responders. This is a 
serious problem, especially with injury crashes and 34% of the 
crashes on 6200 South resulting possible injury or worse. 
6200 South
Mountain View Corridor
5600 West
5600 West
4800 West
Center Park Dr
Misty Way
Bangerter Hwy
Bangerter Hwy
WEST VALLEY
CITY
WEST
JORDAN
KEARNS
TAYLORSVILLE
WEST
JORDAN
WEST JORDAN
TAYLORSVILLE
The lack of 
a unified plan and 
unified jurisdictional map 
creates a series of challenges 
for township officials, public 
utilities, first responders, public 
works, and residents. 
44
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Conclusion: The cities should coordinate with UDOT for the potential jurisdictional transfer of 6200 
South to UDOT as a regional facility. In the interim, Kearns should work to create a cooperate agreement 
with all parties that creates a consistent, single contact point for directing residents, workers, and 
developers. 
6200 South is also problematic for maintenance and public works operations, such as road construction 
and maintenance, potholes, utility and fiber installation, snow removal, street signs and striping, street 
lighting, and traffic signals. Additionally, this creates an economic development disadvantage with 
businesses owners applying for construction permits along 6200 South if they are unsure of which 
entity to go to and waste time applying to the wrong entities. Major changes that need to be made 
to the road, such as basic maintenance or corridor improvements, are often overlooked or left out 
entirely because it can be too arduous or time-consuming for project coordination. 
6200 South Multi-Township Collaboration
Photo of  crash on 6200 South
WFRC’s RTP shows a plan for 6200 South 
to be widened to seven lanes between 
2031-2040 to accommodate growth 
in regional traffic. There is currently no 
overarching agreement between the 
municipalities to deal with the specifics 
of this planning effort. All of these factors 
make 6200 South a good candidate for 
a potential jurisdictional transfer with 
Kearns and UDOT.
45
METRO  TOWNSHIP
5 WHAT WE HEARD
Project Website 
The project website can be found here:
www.planningkearns.com 
 
The website contains 9 pages and has 
been updated regularly with new content 
throughout the project. Over 1,400 visitors 
have viewed the project website. 
The most visited page on the website was the 
sidewalk inventory with over 1,300 clickable 
dots that show a detailed photo of each 
sidewalk issue.
Public Meeting: 
The project team held a public meeting pop-up event at the Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness 
Center to gather input. The pop-up event on May 30, 2019 was held to introduce folks to the 
project and solicit input on what transportation issues exist and any potential solutions to 
be considered. The project team listened to all comments and people wrote on, and marked  
up and stickered two maps. The project team interacted with dozens of people at this public 
pop-up event from 4:30 PM – 7:00 PM. Some of the most notable take-aways from the first 
public meeting were:
 » Residents expressed safety concerns on Cougar Lane where it loses a southbound lane
 » Participants stated that it was difficult to turn left onto 5400 south and 6200 South at certain times in certain 
places
 » The condition of 6200 South was a topic of concern, noting that there are many potholes and the pavement 
is quite damaged
 » A need for better traffic control around USANA Amphitheater – one such person lived in a house nearby and 
complained about the traffic and noise that the USANA Amphitheater produces. 
 » Many people expressed little to no transportation concerns, noting that it is worse in other areas outside of 
Kearns.
 Screenshot of project website
Throughout the project there were opportunities for the public to comment on transportation 
in Kearns. These opportunities included visiting a project website, attending a public meeting, and 
completing a community survey. The information on these opportunities and what we heard from 
these groups can be found below.
46
METRO  TOWNSHIP
We have the opportunity for a second public meeting to present the Draft Kearns Transportation Master 
Plan and solicit more comments. 
Community Survey Results 
In addition to the public pop-up events at the Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness Center, the project team hosted 
an online public survey to gather feedback on the transportation issues around Kearns. The survey was 
available from May 1st through  June 1st, 2019, and during that time there were 124 completed surveys 
received. Some of the key findings from the survey are listed below: 
 » Everyone surveyed lived or worked in Kearns. 
 » Most respondents indicated that they felt that Kearns was just  “somewhat congested” (70%) while 
16% did feel that Kearns was “very congested.” 
 » Respondents indicated that the heaviest traffic congestion was on 5400 South between Northwest 
Avenue and Cougar Lane, with 6200 South between 4000 West and 4800 West a close second.
Public outreach pop-up event at Kearns Oquirrh  Park Fitness Center
47
METRO  TOWNSHIP
While people had opinions about locations of congestion, respondents told us that 
safety was their number one concern.
We used this feedback to consider improvement projects and to analyze specific locations mentioned.
Graph of online survey results
Graph of online survey results
Neighborhood traﬃc calming
Lack of public transportation
Lack of safe biking/walking options
(i.e. bike lanes, sidewalks, crosswalks, etc.)
Poor pavement conditions (potholes)
Safety (i.e. speeding, red light 
running , accidents, etc.)
Traﬃc congestion on the road
10% 20% 70%0% 80%30% 50% 60%40%
What are the transportation problems you are 
most concerned with in Kearns?
10% 20% 70%0% 30% 50% 60%40%
Do you feel that any of the following areas have 
traﬃc congestion issues?
5400 S. between Northwest Ave and 
4800 W. (Cougar Lane)
6200 S. between 4000 W. and 4800 W. 
(Cougar Lane)
5415 S. between Bangerter HWY and 
4000 W.
5600 W. between 5400 S. and 4700 S.
48
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Survey respondents answered questions on roads and driving; 87% told us they drive alone everyday. 
Over 40 respondents indicated that they bike sometimes and almost every respondent reported that 
they walk sometimes.
All of the feedback we received (which includes hundreds of written comments) was reviewed and 
used in the analysis of transportation and most notably in the development of projects. Improvement 
projects were considered at every specific location that was mentioned by the public either at the 
meeting, through the survey, in person, or by direct e-mail. While many times, no improvement was 
needed, every comment was still considered.
Graph of online survey results
49
METRO  TOWNSHIP
6 KEARNS SIDEWALK PLAN
This chapter is a full sidewalk plan for Kearns Metro Township. It evaluates the existing conditions 
of all 173.3 miles of sidewalks in Kearns. Priority sidewalk routes are identified and detailed sidewalk 
projects are discussed. Photographs of over 1,400 hundred sidewalk issues in Kearns were collected 
to document all the needs. Maps of a ten year sidewalk improvement plan are included to pave the way 
for the future of sidewalks in Kearns. 
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 was the nation’s first comprehensive civil rights law 
which offers protections and addresses needs of people with disabilities. Title II of the ADA prohibits state and 
local government agencies from discriminating against people with disabilities in their programs, services, 
and activities. 
Among the services that must be accessible to individuals with disabilities are transportation facilities, which 
includes pedestrian facilities. The current best-practices for pedestrian network accessibility is the Public 
Right-of-Way Accessibility Guidelines (PROWAG). The PROWAG standards were developed by the Access 
Board, a federal agency that promotes equality for people with disabilities through leadership in accessible 
design. The Access Board released the proposed PROWAG in 2011 and subsequently updated it in February 2013. 
PROWAG provides guidelines for the design, construction, and alteration of pedestrian facilities in the public right-
of-way. The guidelines ensure that sidewalks, 
pedestrian street crossings, pedestrian signals, 
and other facilities for pedestrian circulation that 
are constructed or altered in the public right-
of-way are readily accessible to and usable by 
pedestrians with disabilities.
The Kearns Metro Township wish to address 
sidewalk safety and ADA compliance through 
the development of a Sidewalk Plan. Part of the 
plan will include an evaluation in which barriers 
to accessibility are inventoried. The plan will also 
prioritize modifications to those barriers based 
on certain criteria and provide a general schedule 
for implementing accessibility improvements. 
To comply with ADA and to provide the basis 
of evaluation of sidewalk condition in Kearns, 
an evaluation of pedestrian facilities within the 
public right-of-way was completed to measure 
and analyze the network for compliance. 
The goals for the evaluation included: 
 » Assess the condition and ADA compliance 
of pedestrian facilities, including sidewalks and curb ramps
 » Identify sidewalk gaps, missing curb ramps, and priority areas for sidewalk network improvements  
 » Create a comprehensive geographic database of pedestrian facilities features  
The Metro T
ownship’s pedestrian network consists of 173.3 miles of sidewalk. Data collection for the self-assessment 
was completed from June-July 2019 and includes digital video and photography of defects. During the inventory, 
data on sidewalks and curb ramps were collected to assess both exisitng wcondition and ADA compliance. The 
subsequent sections of the plan provide additional background information, project approach, geospatial database 
structure, analysis of data collected and assessment of condition, and compliance of the pedestrian network.
Example of vegetation obstruction 
on sidewalk in Kearns 
50
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Background
Federal Policies and Standards
Over the past five decades, state and federal regulators have enacted increasingly comprehensive protections 
for people with disabilities. These policies and standards form the backdrop for accessibility policies at the 
local level. 
American with Disability Act 
Federal accessibility policy has its origin in the 
Architectural Barriers Act (ABA) of 1968. The 
ABA required limited accessibility provisions in 
buildings purchased or leased with federal funds. 
During the 1970s, Congress enacted sweeping 
protections for individuals with disabilities. 
The Rehabilitation Act of 1973 prohibited 
discrimination based on disability by federal 
agencies and contractors and required new 
or altered   facilities  used for federally funded 
programs to be accessible. Unlike previous 
legislation, the Rehabilitation Act framed 
accessibility as a civil rights issue, paving the way 
for the ADA. It also established the Access Board, 
a federal agency responsible for developing 
accessibility standards and investigating 
complaints. In 1988, the Civil Rights 
Restoration Act extended the protections of 
the Rehabilitation Act to all programs of agencies that receive federal funds.
The most comprehensive federal legislation protecting individuals with disabilities is the 1990 Americans with 
Disabilities Act (ADA) and its amendments. Building on the civil rights protections of the Rehabilitation Act, 
the ADA guarantees equal access to areas such as employment, public facilities, transportation, and government 
services.  
During the 1990s and 2000s, the Access Board developed the ADA Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG) describing 
the standards for accessible buildings and facilities. These standards were adopted by the U.S. Department of 
Transportation and the U.S. Department of Justice in 2006 and 2010, respectively, giving them the force of law. 
Under ADA, the standards apply to state and local government facilities, transportation facilities, and most private 
commercial establishments.
Public Right-of-Way Accessibility Guidelines 
Public rights-of-way, including the pedestrian network, are required to be accessible to people with disabilities 
under Title II of ADA. In 1992, the Access Board proposed guidelines for government facilities that included standards 
for the public right-of-way. Based on public comments, however, the Board deferred action on the public right-
of-way standards and instead formed the Public Rights-of-Way Access Advisory Committee (PROWAAC) to make 
recommendations. 
Following PROWAAC’s 2001 report, Building a True Community, the Access Board published the draft Public Right-
Spalling on sidewalk in Kearns
51
METRO  TOWNSHIP
of-Way Accessibility Guidelines (PROWAG) containing standards for pedestrian access routes in 
the public right-of-way. The draft guidelines were revised in 2005, and proposed guidelines were 
published in 2011. 
Local Programs, Policies, and Regulations
Kearns Metro Township has prioritized sidewalk safety and ADA compliance. Programs and policies are in 
place to ensure appropriate use of funds and response to citizen requests.
Safer Sidewalk Program
Kearns Metro Township has an adopted Safer Sidewalk Program. Before the metro township’s inception older 
areas of the County were not required to install sidewalks at the time of development. This has created a need 
for installation of sidewalks due to increased population, particularly in school-age children.
The Safer Sidewalk Program allows residents to request the County analyze a street for sidewalks. Once the 
street has been analyzed it will be placed on a priority list based on the number of vehicles on the road, number 
of pedestrians, schools in the area and the accident rate. The higher the priority, the sooner the project can be 
completed as funds become available.
Complete Streets
Salt Lake County has a County-Wide Policy on Complete Streets. The purpose of this policy is to improve the 
ability of pedestrians, bicyclists, motorists, and transit riders of all ages and abilities to safely move along and across 
a complete street. This policy is intended to integrate the needs of all road users into Kearns Metro Township’s 
everyday transportation planning practices.
New Development
Title 14 – Highways, Sidewalks and Public Places of the Kearns Metro Township Code contains the guidelines for 
the development of all public and private curbs, curb ramps and sidewalks within the jurisdiction of Kearns.  
Chapter 18 of the Code of Ordinances of Kearns Metro Township Code states that the subdivider shall install curbs, 
gutter and sidewalks on existing and proposed streets in all subdivisions.
Design Standards
Salt Lake County Public Works provides the 
relevant design standards for sidewalks 
and curb ramps. The design standards 
establish the criteria necessary to make 
sidewalk and ramp elements physically 
accessible to people with disabilities. It 
also identifies what features need to be 
accessible and then provides the specific 
measurements, dimensions, and other 
technical information needed to make 
the feature accessible.  
Ownership, Maintenance, 
and Replacement
Sidewalks within the public right-of-way 
are the responsibility of the adjacent 
property owner per Kearns Metro 
Township Code Chapter 14.32. According 
A Gap along a Kearn’s sidewalk
52
METRO  TOWNSHIP
to this chapter it is the duty of each property owner abutting or fronting any street to repair 
and maintain in good condition all public curbs, curb ramps, gutters and sidewalks across of 
immediately abutting their property.  The county may inspect the condition of the public curbs and 
sidewalk etc. to determine and defects or needed repairs. It is also prohibited to obstruct any public curb 
and/or sidewalk.
Snow Removal
Kearns Metro Township ordinances require the owner, occupant, lessor or agent of property abutting a paved 
sidewalk to remove or cause to be removed from such paved sidewalk and any existing curb ramp all hail, 
snow or sleet falling thereon, within twelve hours after the hail, snow or sleet has ceased falling, provided that 
in case of a storm between the hours of five p.m. and six a.m., the sidewalk and any existing curb ramp shall be 
cleaned before eight a.m. following the storm.
Project Approach
The basis for the project approach was a detailed sidewalk inventory of all Kearns’ sidewalk segments using 
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) as well as a detailed documentation of all sidewalk issues. This documentation 
was accomplished walking or riding every mile of sidewalk and using a GOPRO camera to photograph every issue 
on the sidewalks. This exhaustive data collection effort allowed for a level of detail previous unrealized and it gives 
the county a clear picture of the problems and how to address them. The full sidewalk inventory can be found on 
www.planningkearns.com.
Sidewalk Network Feature Creation 
All visible sidewalk was digitized from aerial imagery. At the conclusion of the inventory, the sidewalk database 
consisted of 173.3 miles of sidewalk. The data collected using aerial imagery was then verified visually in the field. 
Every foot of Kearns roadway was traveled and logged. All defects were photographed and geospatially linked to 
the GIS database.
The following GIS features were created during the digitization process: 
 » Sidewalk Line Segments – 
 Pedestrian paths adjacent to public streets. 
 Sidewalk segments were creat
ed generally by block. 
 » Defect Points – Visually identified curb defects.
 » Cracking 
 » Cross Slope Deficiencies
 » Fixed Obstructions
 » Gaps
 » Settling
 » Spalling
 » Uplift
 » Vegetation Obstructions
 » Vertical Obstructions
A Photograph taken using a GOPRO 
during sidewalk inventory
53
METRO  TOWNSHIP
The identified sidewalk issues and defects were categorized 
into the following two groups of potential interventions:
Maintenance can address the following issues:
 Fixed Obstructions, V
egetation Obstructions, 
 Vertical  Obstructions, Uplift, S
ettling  
Replacement may be needed for the following issues: 
 Cross Slope, Gaps, Settling
, 
 Spalling, Cracking, Uplift
Sidewalk Inventory 
A full GIS-based sidewalk inventory was completed using the latest aerial photography and verified by site 
visits. The sidewalk inventory was built into a GIS database. Figure 6-1 is a map of sidewalk inventory for Kearns, 
including over 173 miles of sidewalk. The yellow lines show the existing sidewalks and the red areas highlight 
sections of missing sidewalk. The Kearns sidewalk network is almost completely built out.
Figure 6-1: Existing Sidewalks in Kearns
Automobiles need 
quantity and pedestrians 
need quality.
 – Dan Burden, walkability expert
Milage of Sidewalks= 173
54
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Sidewalk Inspection 
Field data collection was accomplished largely using a GOPRO camera but the field technician also 
used ArcGIS maps. Every sidewalk was traveled and recorded and every issue or defect was logged 
categorized. Several locations had multiple issues. Figure 6-2 is a map of around 1,400 documented sidewalk 
issues in Kearns.
Sidewalk Inventory Results
One of the main goals of the sidewalk plan is to identify defects and come up with a plan to improve the 
safety and mobility of sidewalks in Kearns. The results of the sidewalk inventory and inspection will then be 
programmed into a maintenance plan. The following sections detail the results of the sidewalk inspection.
Photographs of every issue can be viewed by clicking on the mapped dots  at www.planningkearns.com.
Figure 6-2: Identified Sidewalk Issues in Kearns
55
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Sidewalk ADA Compliance
The level of ADA compliance in the sidewalk network impacts not only individuals with disabilities 
but all pedestrians. 
The compliance index for sidewalks considers multiple criteria representing PROWAG accessibility standards 
including cross slope, vertical fault, and obstructions.
Cross Slope
Cross slope is the slope of the sidewalk perpendicular to the direction of travel. To be ADA compliant, sidewalk 
cross slopes must be two percent or less. Spot locations where cross slopes appeared to exceed the ADA 
standards are shown in Figure 6-2. There are only two identifiable cross slope issues, corresponding to less than 
1% of all observed sidewalk problems.
Vertical Faults (Trip Hazards)
Vertical faults are points where the surface of the sidewalk is uneven, usually due to uplift or settling of panels 
typically resulting from freeze-thaw cycles, tree root growth, or settling of soil. To be ADA compliant, all vertical 
faults must be less than a half inch. In addition, all faults between ¼ inch and ½ inch must be beveled or ground 
to remove the fault. Because of the high standard set by ADA for vertical faults, this is the most common problem 
identified in the data collection phase (see Figure 6-6). Of the 1,238 sidewalk concerns identified, 507 were related 
to uplift and 79 were related to setting. 47% of all sidewalk hazards in Kearns can be classified as Vertical Faults or 
Trip Hazards.
Each vertical fault was inventoried regardless of severity. No attempt was made to measure the extent of the fault, 
mostly because the faults will continue to move as aditional settling or uplift occurs and will get more severe. 
As the Kearns Metro Township begins to schedule these sidewalks for replacement they should be individually 
inspected and measured to determine whether beveling or grinding would be an appropriate and more cost-
effective method of mitigation. In some cases, mudjacking, a process of injected concrete into the soil beneath the 
panel can also be an effective way to treat settling.
Obstructions
Obstructions are objects that impede pedestrian travel on the sidewalk. Sidewalks must be free from obstructions 
to be ADA compliant. Almost all obstructions observed in Kearns were temporary in nature. This was defined as 
vegetation growth, vehicles parked in driveways, leaning fences or something of a similar nature. In each case, 
the remedy for the problem is either time, a vehicle will not always be parked blocking the sidewalk, or notifying 
residents of the issue, an overgrown hedge. In either case, the cost to remedy the issues should and must be borne 
by the resident and not by Kearns Metro Township. The Township responsibility should be to notify the resident/
owner of the property of the concern. 22% (271) of the observed sidewalk concerns were obstructions. Sidewalks 
locations with obstructions are shown in Figure 6-2.
Condition Assessment
Although ADA compliance and pedestrian mobility should be of primary concern, the existing condition of 
the sidewalk must not be overlooked and, depending on severity, can impede accessibility. Sidewalk condition 
deteriorates over time due to changes in temperature, moisture, wear, and other factors. Freezing and thawing is 
a major contributor to condition deterioration in the Utah climate as expansion and contraction leads to cracking 
of sidewalk surfaces. Cracks allow moisture to penetrate the structural base of the sidewalk causing heaving, which 
ultimately leads to more cracking, uplift and/or settling. Cracks also provide opportunity for vegetation growth, 
further impeding mobility. If sidewalks are left to deteriorate long enough, the concrete surface wears 
away 
complete and you are left with essentially a gravel surface. These have been identified as gaps for the purposes of 
56
METRO  TOWNSHIP
this assessment. 
The most common surface condition issues observed were spalling, cracking, and gaps. Spalling 
accounted for 174 of the sidewalk issues (14%). There were 85 areas of sidewalk where gaps were present 
(7%). 120 sidewalks are cracked (10%). Figure 6-3 shows the overall sidewalk conditions in Kearns.
Figure 6-3: Overall Sidewalk Condition
 
In general, newer sidewalks tend to have fewer condition issues than older features, though condition is not based 
solely on age. New features that are designed or installed incorrectly or that use less resilient surfaces develop 
condition issues more rapidly than features that follow construction best practices. Site preparation, materials, 
drainage, and ongoing maintenance all play a role in the lifespan of sidewalk network features. In this assessment, 
the presence of a condition issue was the only criteria. Issues were not analyzed based on severity. As areas of 
sidewalk are scheduled for maintenance, the condition should be assessed again to determine severity.
57
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Regional Facilities
Figure 6-4 is a map showing the general importance of sidewalk facilities in Kearns. The level of 
importance of regional sidewalks is based on three key factors.
 » Whether the sidewalk is included in a safe routes to school map
 » Its proximity to bus stops
 » Estimated sidewalk use derived from 2018 STRAVA data
Strava is a voluntary fitness app used by runners, walkers, cyclists, etc that records data about routes including 
frequency of usage. This data is used as one factor in the assessment of sidewalk “importance.“ The Strava data 
for Kearns was measured and mapped on every sidewalk segment, then the aggregated values were totaled 
and displayed as least important, moderately important, and most important. 
Figure 6-4: General Importance of Sidewalk Facilities in Kearns
 
Maintenance
Sidewalk replacement and repair is a priority for Kearns Metro Township as they move forward to increase 
pedestrian mobility and accessibility. The following maintenance plan is designed to aid in this goal.
58
METRO  TOWNSHIP
On-Going Inspection
As a rule, sidewalks should be visually inspected every five years. The recommendation of this 
assessment is that the metro township be split into seven geographic areas with approximately the 
same total length of sidewalk in each (see Figure 6-5). Chosen area(s) should be inspected visually each 
year. It is highly recommended that the same process be used to inspect the sidewalk in the future as 
was used with this assessment, specifically geo-referencing the inspections with photographs. This can be 
accomplished using ESRI software and/or a custom-built sidewalk inspection/maintenance web app.
Figure 6-5: Potential Inspection Areas in Kearns
 
Maintenance
As with the on-going inspection, it is recommended that maintenance be assigned based on geography, potentially 
using the same areas. Consideration should also be taken of the maintenance type being performed. For example, 
maintenance performed in year one could include remove and replacing badly spalled/cracked sidewalk, installing 
new sidewalk where gaps exist, grinding trip hazards, and mudjacking settled sidewalk panels. 
A ten-year maintenance plan is recommended to address all 1,238 sidewalk issues identified in the assessment. The 
maintenance plan spelled out here should be fluid and adjusted every year as more sidewalk is inspected.
1 2 3
4 5 6 3
59
METRO  TOWNSHIP
10 - Year Maintenance Plan
Table 6-1 provides a breakdown of sidewalk maintenance and replacement cost by dollar per foot. 
While some issues will overlap such as spalling and uplift, this offers general guidance for cost. These 
general costs are somewhat conservative and will likely vary depending upon contractors. The costs were 
used to help develop the ten-year maintenance plan. Treatment types were applied to the worst condition 
segments. Then based on their length a project cost was determined.  
Table 6-1: General Cost by Treatment Type
Treatment Type Issues Remedied Cost per foot of sidewalk
New Sidewalk Gaps $33.00
Mudjacking Settling $9.00
Grinding Settling, Uplift $6.00
Remove and Replace Settling, Cracking, Spalling, Uplift, Cross Slope $40.00
The general length of the treatment types in the ten-year maintenance plan is based on an average of $34,000 
per year spent on sidewalk improvements.
Figure 6-6: First 5 Years of 10-Year Maintenance Plan
60
METRO  TOWNSHIP
The ten-year maintenance plan was developed based on what could be feasibly completed each 
year. Not every sidewalk segment is addressed and some treatment types allow for more segments 
to be addressed during different years. On average four to five miles of sidewalk can be addressed each 
year of the ten-year plan. Figure 5-10 shows the first five years of the sidewalk plan (years 2020-2024) and 
figure 6-7 shows the remaining 5 years of the plan (2025-2029).
Figure 6-7: Second 5 Years of 10-Year Maintenance Plan
Conclusion
The sidewalk condition in Kearns varies.  The worst conditions show up in the older neighborhoods in the 
northeast, while the newer neighborhoods have few issues. The 173 miles of sidewalks average fewer than ten 
issues per mile.
While many of these issues would require replacement the ten-year maintenance plan details out a potential 
schedule to make the largest improvements by segments and increase the overall sidewalk condition throughout 
Kearns. 
61
METRO  TOWNSHIP
This chapter focuses on final recommendations for transportation in Kearns. It includes a capital 
facilities plan with recommended projects and costs estimates. Based upon the evaluation of 
existing and future conditions as well as public input that was received through the planning 
process, specific recommendations were developed for each plan element. These recommendations 
will be used to complete the transportation network, including functionally classified roads, transportation 
investments, and active transportation projects. 
Future functional classification
The recommended functionally classified roadway network is illustrated in Figure 7-1. The functional 
classification was developed based upon prior planning efforts, including the existing functional classification 
shown in Figure 2-7. This existing map provided the base roadway network that was refined to serve the 
updated future land use and traffic forecasts from the travel demand modeling. Finally, the recommended 
functional classification was improved to reflect stakeholder and public comments to create a network that 
will serve existing and future travel demand. The recommended network includes planned projects from 
WFRC’s Long Range Transportation Plan. These arterial and collector roadways will provide the backbone of the 
functionally classified transportation network within Kearns.
Figure 7-1: Future Functional Classification 
7 WHAT IS THE PLAN
62
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Standards and cross-sections
Accompanying the future functional classification map to better complete the road network are standard 
roadway cross-sections. Roadway cross-sections are essential for understanding the function, capacity, and 
speed, as well as the look and feel of a road.  The roadway cross-section standards for Kearns are based on 
County standards and engineering concepts from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation 
Officials’ (AASHTO) design manual  ‘A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets 2018,’ (commonly 
called the “AASHTO Green Book”). The County standards use a table to define right-of-way and pavement widths 
but generally do not define pavement elements like widths for travel lanes, center-turn lanes, or shoulders. 
The typical cross-sections for each functional classification in Kearns are drawn in this section. The County standard 
for right-of-way (ROW) width as well as pavement width for each functional classification are included in Table 
7-1. It is important that Kearns uses specific values for each cross-section for future development. Cross-section 
drawings are located on the following pages. These are only examples of possible lane configurations within 
the pavement widths because there is variability in the application of standards. The geometry of these cross-
sections are identical to Salt Lake County design standards found in Chapter 14.12 of the Standards for Roadway 
Development.
TYPE PAVEMENT WIDTH RIGHT-OF-WAY
Principal Arterials Varies Varies
Minor Arterial 55’ 80’
Major Collector 55’ 80’
Collector 41’ 66’
Minor Collector 35’ 60’
SidewalkSidewalk
ParkstripParkstrip
CurbCurbTravel LaneTravel Lane
Center Turn LaneCenter Turn LaneShoulderShoulder
Table 7-1: Roadway Cross Section Widths
Labels of Roadway Elements
The future functional classification map shown in figure 7-1 on the previous page is a comprehensive 
one-page image of the Master Transportation Plan. It shows the existing and future roads with their 
connectivity and general sizing so the community will know what the plan is for future roads in 
Kearns. It is essentially the future road network.
63
Principal Arterials
Principal arterial streets are mostly UDOT roads and are designed to move vehicles through an area. 
These roads have limited access, higher speeds, and traffic signals at major cross streets. Principal 
arterials are generally spaced about one or two miles apart and usually have four to six travel lanes with a 
center-turn lane. Principal Arterials in Kearns include 4700 South, 5400 South, 5600 West, and 6200 South. 
Because many of these are UDOT roads and they have varying widths and cross-sections, there is not a 
uniform design to display. The design widths for the principal arterials are variable and can be used for 3 to 
7 lane roadway sections.
Minor Arterials
Minor arterials are designed to serve both traffic movement and access. These roads typically have cross street 
access, but limited driveway access, medium speeds, and flared-out signalized intersections at major cross 
streets. There is one existing minor arterial identified in Kearns, 4800 West / Cougar Lane. The minor arterial cross-
section includes 55 feet of pavement in an 80 foot right-of-way. The cross-section may be three to five lanes. A 
five-lane section may include two 11-foot travel lanes in each direction and a 11-foot center turn lane, curb and 
gutter, and sidewalk complete the 80-foot right of way.
Pavement
ROW
Figure 7-2: Minor Arterial Cross Section
Major Collectors
Planned major collectors in Kearns include 4800 West, 4015 West and 5215 South and others. The minor arterial 
cross-section includes 55 feet of pavement in an 80 foot right-of-way. The cross-section maybe three, four, or five 
lanes. A three-lane major collector pavement width could consist of one 12-foot travel lane in each direction, 13-
foot center turn lane, and 9-foot shoulders. Similar to the minor arterials, the total width of right-of-way is 80-feet.
Pavement
ROW
Figure 7-3: Major Collector Cross Section
METRO  TOWNSHIP
64
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Collectors
Collector streets are designed to offer local traffic access to arterial streets but they are not designed 
for long distance travel. These roads typically have no limitations to street or driveway access and facilitate 
slower speeds, generally 35 miles per hour or slower. Planned collectors in Kearns 4865 South, 4620 West, 
and Northwest Avenue south of 5415 South and others. The drawing of the collector cross-section is shown 
in Figure 7-4 and includes a 66-foot right-of-way with 41 feet of pavement.  Collectors could include a two or 
three lane cross-section that might have one 12-foot travel lane in each direction and either 2-foot shoulders. 
Collectors have less vehicle capacity than arterials, but more capacity than residential streets.
Pavement
ROW
Figure 7-4: Collector Cross Section
 Minor Collectors
Residential streets are designed to offer access from residences to the roadway network. Local streets connect 
driveways to collectors or arterials. Residential streets are typically laced with driveways on both sides and have 
posted speed limits of 25 miles per hour. These streets are part of developers’ plans for neighborhoods and are built 
within sub-divisions. Residential streets exist throughout Kearns and are in all of the residential developments. The 
local street cross-section has a 60-foot right-of-way and 35 feet of pavement. Minor Collectors could include one 
12.5-foot travel lane in each direction, 5-foot shoulders, curb and gutter, and sidewalk.
Pavement
ROW
Figure 7-5: Minor Collector Cross Section
65
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Active Transportation
A large part of this transportation master plan is accommodating all travel modes including active 
transportation. Section 6 of this plan addresses sidewalks and walking facilities in detail, including 
developing a 10-year maintenance plan for sidewalk improvements. 
Future bicycle facilities also play an important part to a complete plan. Figure 7-6 is a map that shows projects 
that are from Salt Lake County’s Regional Active Transportation Implementation Plan. Kearns currently has a 
trail on the north side of 4700 and a bike lane on the west side of 4800 West / Cougar Lane. Future bike lanes 
are planned on Pieper Blvd, 4420 West, 4015 West, and 4820 West as well as buffered bike lanes on 4800 West 
/ Cougar Lane. 
Besides dedicated bike lane facilities Neighborhood byways are also planned throughout Kearns. These 
byways are typically designated with sharrows and bike stencils but not dedicated lanes. Neighborhood byways 
are planned on slow speed local roads that residents are already biking on. Figure 7-6 shows the future active 
transportation bicycle facilities.  
Figure 7-6: Future Active Transportation Facilities
66
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Transit
Transit is an important part of multi-modal transportation as well as any township’s Transportation Master 
Plan. Transit provides a viable mobility option across economic strata for both residents and commuters. 
Both WFRC and UTA are planning on expanding transit service in Kearns in the near term. 
The most significant aspect of the transit expansion will be the 5600 West Express Service. This new high-
frequency service is part of the Mountain View Corridor expansion and will service residents on the west side 
of Kearns. It is anticipated that this new service will enhance transit ridership throughout Kearns. Individual 
bus routes will likely change and expand as well, but those details have yet to be determined by UTA.
Figure 7-7 is a map displaying the future of transit service with the new express route highlighted.  
Figure 7-7: Future Transit Facilities
67
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Capital Facilities 
A capital facilities plan is designed to show the future transportation investment needed in a 
community. It enhances existing transportation corridors and plans spot intersection improvements to 
provide future residents of the community with an adequate transportation system. Kearns’ capital facilities 
plan for future growth between the planning years of 2020-2050 is provided below. Figure 7-8 is a map of 
all the needed transportation project over the next 30 years.
Figure 7-8: Capital Facilities Plan Costs: 2020-2050
68
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Tables 7-2 and 7-3 are the detailed project lists with planning level cost estimates and 
potential funding sources. Table 7-2 is the next ten years of needs and table 7-3 shows the 
needs from 2031-2050.
Project # Location Improvement Type Total Cost Funding Source
1 West Sam’s Blvd/4580 West/
Pieper Blvd/Northwest Ave: 
4715 South to 5415 South
Traffic Calming $367,000 Kearns
2 Northwest Ave: 5500 South 
and 5740 South
Traffic Calming $141,000 Kearns
3 4015 West: Twilight Dr. to 
5700 South
Traffic Calming $32,000 Kearns
4 5415 South/Northwest 
Avenue
Intersection 
Improvement $1,320,000 UDOT
5 Cougar Lane: Niagara Way 
and Kearns High Dr. Capacity Improvement $2,380,000 Kearns
6 5400 South/5600 West Intersection 
Improvement $2,880,000 UDOT
7 4700 South: MVC to 4000 
West Capacity Improvement $31,140,000 Kearns/WFRC
Subtotal (Kearns): $2,920,000
Subtotal (Kearns/WFRC): $31,140,000
Subtotal (UDOT):  $4,200,000
Total: $38,260,000
Project # Location Improvement 
Type
Total Cost Funding Source
8 6200 South: Cougar Lane to 
Bangerter Highway
Capacity 
Improvement $13,990,000 Kearns/WFRC
9 6200 South: Cougar Lane to 
Bangerter Highway
Capacity 
Improvement $11,920,000 Kearns/WFRC
10 5400 South: MVC to 5600 
West
Capacity 
Improvement $7,640,000 UDOT
Subtotal (Kearns):         
Subtotal (Kearns/WFRC): $ 25,910,000
Subtotal (UDOT):  $7,640,000
Total: $33,550,000
Table 7-2: Capital Facilities Plan Costs: 2020-2030
Table 7-3: Capital Facilities Plan Costs: 2031-2050
69
METRO  TOWNSHIP
2020-2030 Projects
1  West Sam’s 
Boulevard/4580 West/Pieper Boulevard/Northwest Avenue – This project would add 
traffic calming to these streets to slow traffic on by adding speed humps and narrow travel lanes. This 
project would narrow the travel lanes and add bike lanes for the length of the project.
2  Northwest Avenue 
- The project would extend the existing speed humps on Northwest Avenue south 
between 5500 South and 5700 South. The project also includes restriping Northwest Avenue to define 
and visually narrow the travel lanes to further slow traffic.
3
  4015 West – This project is t
o restripe 4015 West from Twilight Drive to 5700 South to narrow the travel 
lanes through the s-curve. The project is designed to help slow traffic through this area that has been a 
concern of residents.
4
  5415 South/Northwest Av
enue – This intersection improvement project would address existing traffic 
congestion and driver confusion.  These improvements could include the addition of dedicated right-turn 
lanes, advanced signage, lane markings, or signal improvements as identified in a future intersection study.
5
  Cougar Lane - The project w
ould extend the second southbound lane on Cougar Lane from Niagara Way 
to Kearns High Drive. Cougar Lane would be widened through this section to accommodate a second 
travel lane and maintain the existing bike lane.
6
  5400 South/5600 West - This 
improvement project would address existing traffic congestion at the 
intersection. These improvements could include the addition of a dedicated right-turn lane on 4700 South, 
dual left-turn lanes on 5600 West, signal improvements, or an innovate intersection as identified in a future 
intersection study.
7
  4700 South - The pr
oject is to widen 4700 South to a five-lane road from Mountain View Corridor to 
4015 West. The project is designed to improve existing congestion and provide for additional east/west 
capacity and is also planned for in the WFRC RTP in phase 1 (2019-2030).
2031-2050 Projects
8
  6200 South: Cougar Lane to Bangert
er Highway – This project would widen an approximately one-
mile segment of 6200 South from 5 lanes to 7 lanes to reduce existing traffic congestion.  The project is 
also identified the WFRC RTP in phase 2 (2031-2040).
9  6200 South: Mountain Vie
w Corridor to 5600 West – The project would widen or restripe 6200 South to 
5 lanes to reduce existing congestion and provide future capacity to access Mountain View Corridor. The 
project would match the existing 5 lane roadway section 6200 South east of 5600 West.
10
  5400 South – This projec
t would widen and restripe the corridor to 7 lanes between Mountain View 
Corridor and 5600 West. The primary purpose of the project is to add capacity between Mountain View 
Corridor and USANA Amphitheater to help alleviate event related traffic congestion that currently impacts 
Kearns roadways.
70
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Funding
All possible revenue sources have been considered as a means of financing transportation capital 
improvements needed as a result of new growth. This section discusses the potential revenue sources that 
could be used to fund transportation needs as a result of new development. 
Transportation routes often span multiple jurisdictions and provide regional significance to the transportation 
network. As a result, other government jurisdictions or agencies often help pay for such regional benefits. 
Those jurisdictions and agencies could include the Federal Government, the State or (UDOT), Salt Lake 
County, and the local metropolitan planning organization (WFRC). Kearns will need to continue to partner 
and work with these other jurisdictions to ensure adequate funds are available for the specific improvements 
necessary to maintain an acceptable LOS. Kearns will also need to partner with adjacent communities to 
ensure corridor continuity across jurisdictional boundaries (i.e., arterials connect with arterials; collectors 
connect with collectors, etc.).
Funding sources for transportation are essential if the Kearns recommended improvements are to be built. 
The following paragraphs further describe the various transportation funding sources available to the 
community.
Federal Funding
Federal monies are available to cities and counties through the federal-aid program. UDOT administers the 
funds. In order to be eligible, a project must be listed on the five-year Statewide Transportation Improvement 
Program (STIP). 
The Surface Transportation Program (STP) funds projects for any roadway with a functional classification of 
a collector street or higher as established on the Statewide Functional Classification Map. STP funds can be 
used for both rehabilitation and new construction. The Joint Highway Committee programs a portion of 
the STP funds for projects around the state in urban areas. Another portion of the STP funds can be used 
for projects in any area of the state at the discretion of the State Transportation Commission. Transportation 
Enhancement funds are allocated based on a competitive application process. The Transportation 
Enhancement Committee reviews the applications and then a portion of the application is passed to the 
State Transportation Commission. Transportation enhancements include twelve categories ranging from 
historic preservation, bicycle and pedestrian facilities, and water runoff mitigation. 
WFRC accepts applications for federal funds from local and regional government jurisdictions. The WFRC 
Technical Advisory and Regional Planning committees select projects for funding every two years. The 
selected projects form the Transportation Improvement Program (TIP). In order to receive funding, projects 
should include one or more of the following aspects:
Congestion Relief – spot improvement projects intended to improve Levels of Service and/or reduce average 
delay along those corridors identified in the Regional Transportation Plan as high congestion areas.
Mode Choice – projects improving the diversity and/or usefulness of travel modes other than single occupant 
vehicles.
Air Quality Improvements – projects showing demonstrable air quality benefits.
Safety – improvements to vehicular, pedestrian, and bicyclist safety.
71
METRO  TOWNSHIP
State/County Funding
The distribution of State Class B and C Program monies is established by State Legislation and 
is administered by the State Department of Transportation. Revenues for the program are derived 
from State fuel taxes, registration fees, driver license fees, inspection fees, and transportation permits. 
75% of these funds are kept by UDOT for their construction and maintenance programs. The rest is made 
available to counties and cities. As some of the roads in Kearns fall under UDOT jurisdiction, it is in the 
interest of Kearns that the staff are aware of the procedures used by UDOT to allocate those funds and to 
be active in requesting the funds be made available for UDOT owned roadways in the Township.
Class B and C funds are allocated to each township and county by a formula based on population, centerline 
miles, and land area. Class B funds are given to counties, and Class C funds are given to cities and towns. 
Class B and C funds can be used for maintenance and construction projects; however, thirty percent of 
those funds must be used for construction or maintenance projects that exceed $40,000. The remainder 
of these funds can be used for matching federal funds or to pay the principal, interest, premiums, and 
reserves for issued bonds. 
In 2005 the State Senate passed a bill providing for the advance acquisition of right-of-way for highways 
of regional significance. This bill would enable cities and counties to better plan for future transportation 
needs by acquiring property to be used as future right-of-way before it is fully developed and becomes 
extremely difficult to acquire. UDOT holds on to the  account revenue generated by the local corridor 
preservation fund, but the county is responsible to program and control monies. In order to qualify for 
preservation funds, the Township must comply with the Corridor Preservation Process, found at the 
following link https://www.udot.utah.gov/main/uconowner.
Township Funding
Some cities utilize general fund revenues for their transportation programs. Another option for 
transportation funding is the creation of special improvement districts. These districts are organized for 
the purpose of funding a single specific project that benefits an identifiable group of properties. Another 
source of funding used by cities is revenue bonding for projects intended to benefit the entire community. 
Private interests often provide resources for transportation improvements. Developers construct the 
local streets within subdivisions and often dedicate right-of-ways and participate in the construction of 
collector/arterial streets adjacent to their developments. Developers can also be considered a possible 
source of funds for projects through the use of impact fees. These fees are assessed as a result of the 
impacts a particular development will have on the surrounding roadway system, such as the need for 
traffic signals or street widening.
General fund revenues are typically reserved for operation and maintenance purposes as they relate to 
transportation. However, general funds could be used if available to fund the expansion or introduction 
of specific services. Providing a line item in the Township budgeted general funds to address roadway 
improvements, which are not impact fee eligible, is a recommended practice to fund transportation 
projects, should other funding options fall short of the needed amount. 
General obligation bonds are debt paid for or backed by the Township’s taxing power. In general, facilities 
paid for through this revenue stream are in high demand amongst the community. Typically, general 
obligation bonds are not used to fund facilities that are needed as a result of new growth because existing 
residents would be paying for the impacts of new growth. As a result, general obligation bonds are not 
considered a fair means of financing future facilities needed as a result of new growth.
72
METRO  TOWNSHIP
METRO  TOWNSHIP
Certain areas might have different needs or require different methods of funding than 
traditional revenue sources. A Special Assessment Area (SAA) can be created for infrastructure 
needs that benefit or encompass specific areas of the Township. Creation of the SAA may be 
initiated by the municipality by a resolution declaring public health, convenience, and necessity 
require the creation of a SAA. The boundaries and services provided by the district must be specified 
and a public hearing held prior to creation of the SAA. Once the SAA is created, funding can be obtained 
from tax levies, bonds, and fees when approved by the majority of the qualified electors of the SAA. These 
funding mechanisms allow the costs to be spread out over time. Through the SAA, tax levies and bonding 
can apply to specific areas in the Township needing to benefit from the improvements.
Implementation 
The specific roadway improvements required to accommodate future growth throughout Kearns were 
identified in Figure 6-9. Projects costs for the CFP for 2020-2030 are in Table 6-2: and in Table 6-3: for 2031-2050. 
The total costs for the 2030 CFP projects is $33.5 million dollars with Kearns and WFRC generally financially 
responsible for $25.9 million dollars. Detailed description of each project is included in Table 6-2 and these 
projects are ordered based on the project priority. Many of the identified projects are for UDOT roads or roads 
which would be eligible for WFRC funding assistance. Where a planned project occurs on a UDOT road, it 
is assumed that the Township would not participate in funding that project. In the case of WFRC eligible 
roadways such as 6200 South that is not an existing UDOT road, Kearns would be responsible for a 6.77% 
match of the total project cost. This 6.77% would need to be funded by the community with the funding 
mechanisms described earlier.
Also included in Table 6-3 are the other projects necessary for the year 2050 functionally classified roadway 
network. Although this transportation plan should be regularly updated, all roadway improvements were 
identified accommodate forecast traffic volumes. 
Overall Kearns is in a good position to improve their transportation system with relatively low cost projects 
based largely on the fact that the community is mostly built out and doesn’t need to accommodate much new 
growth. 
7373
METRO  TOWNSHIP
MASTER TRANSPORTATION  PLAN
KEARNS