2022 GENERAL PLAN 
White City Metro Township

White City General Plan - Page 2
Acknowledgments
General Plan Steering Committee
Tyler Huish (Chair)
Greg Shelton (Vice Chair)
Josiah Halverson
John Hoggan
James Lucas
Caitlyn Miller
Dave Quinney
Renee Sutton
Steve Wrigley
Zachary Zundel
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Marla Howard (General Manager)
Brian Hartsell (Associate G. Manager)
Lupita McClenning (Director of Planning 
and Development Services)
Mikala Jordan (Project Lead, Long Range Planner)
Wendy Gurr (Planning Coordinator)
Maridene Alexander (Communications Manager)
Jim McNulty (Planning Manager)
Kate Davies (Senior Long Range Planner)
Kayla Mauldin (Long Range Planner)
Alex Rudowski (GIS Analyst/Planner)
Travis Hair (Planner II)
Planning Commission
Weston Millen (Chair)
Christy Seiger-Webster (Vice Chair)
Antoinette Blair
Robert Frailey
Chris Spagnuolo
Gene Wilson
Council
Paulina Flint (Mayor)
D. Scott Little
Allan Perry
Linda Price
Phil Cardenaz
Others
Madeline Franciso-Galang (White City Engineer)
Thomas McMurty (Avenue Consultant)
Todd Andersen (Economic Development 
Specialist)
Jay Springer (Land Use Attorney)
Paul Ashton (White City Attorney)
All Participating Members of the Public
  - Page 3
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
4 Executive Summary
6 Key Recommendations and Goals
8 Chapter 1 - All About Planning
12 Chapter 2 - Community Engagement
 14 General Plan Engagement Major Events Timeline
28 Chapter 3 - Community Background
 30 White City At a Glance Infographic
32 Chapter 4 - Land Use
 40 Zoning
 46 Character Areas
 68 Future Land Use Map
72  Chapter 5 - Transportation
 94 Future Transportation
98 Chapter 6 - Lifelong Communities
 104 Governance
 106 Aging in Community 
 109 Economic Opportunities
 114 Resilience and Sustainability
120 Chapter 7 - Looking Forward
136  Chapter 8 - References and Resources
Appendix 
White City General Plan - Page 4
Executive Summary
CONTEXT -  This 2022 General Plan is a first 
for White City, Utah. In this Plan, readers find 
information about the planning process and 
community context, methods of data collection, 
the public engagement process, three topical 
elements—land use, transportation, and lifelong 
communities—and a work program tailored to 
each element. 
This Plan addresses the current conditions and 
future aspirations of the community and is 
intended to guide community decision-making. 
This Plan should be used by elected and 
appointed officials, staff, and the public to 
understand on-the-ground conditions, the 
community’s collective vision, and how to take 
appropriate actions to realize that vision. 
This Plan is heavily driven by public feedback 
and by data collection and analysis. In fact, 
public participation is one of White City’s 
greatest strengths as a community. While a 
small community of 5, people, over approxi -
mately 752 written comments were collected 
from surveys, emails, virtual comment boxes, 
and paper comment boxes throughout the 
two-year process. Four in-person workshops 
and over thirty public meetings were held to 
discuss the Plan. The public’s knowledge of 
the community is supplemented with credible, 
comprehensive resources such as the U.S. Census 
Bureau’s American Community Survey and Esri’s 
Community Analyst Program, which provided 
many of the statistics. 
EXISTING CONDITIONS -  Home to 5,747 people, 
White City consists of 432.7 acres in the south -
eastern part of Salt Lake County, Utah. Uniquely, 
White City is an island community completely 
surrounded by Sandy, a city of 96,385 people. 
Additionally, White City is bisected by a coun -
ty-run park, Dimple Dell Regional Park, that 
residents utilize for recreation. While White 
City’s surroundings feel more urban, White City 
has retained its close-knit, small-town feel.
White City is more affordable than nearby 
places in the Salt Lake Valley. For example, 
2021 estimates put the median home value at 
$338,931 for White City, compared to $406,810 
for Salt Lake County as a whole. In the latest ACS 
5-Year Estimates, White City’s median household 
income was $63,446, which was significantly 
lower than the county-wide median household 
income of $74,865. Residents value their more 
affordable lifestyle and often cite it as a means 
of attracting young families and first-time home -
owners.
In White City, land is used primarily for residential 
purposes: 94.7 percent of land is zoned single-
family residential, and 5.2 percent is zoned 
agricultural. Only one property is zoned for 
commercial uses; however, 34 business licenses 
were issued in 2020, indicating the presence of 
home-based occupations. Other land uses and 
resources of particular community value are 
the 14.6-acre Big Bear Park, the White Towers 
Swimming Pool, and the White City Water 
  - Page 5
Executive Summary
Improvement District. Additionally, White City 
enjoys amenities offered in nearby Sandy City.  
KEY STRENGTHS AND CHALLENGES - Key 
strengths include White City’s strong culture of 
public participation; its groundwater source; the 
small-town feel; affordable housing; the fami -
ly-friendly environment; its relative location 
to major transportation corridors, recreation 
opportunities, and job hubs; and its retention of 
agricultural land. Key challenges include being 
completely built out, few sales-tax generating 
commercial properties, gaps in pedestrian infra -
structure that support walkability, limited places 
for community gatherings and interactions, 
worn infrastructure.
KEY OUTCOMES -  Among diverse and sometimes 
conflicting viewpoints, this Plan sought to 
nurture a collective vision that all residents 
could stand behind. As such, this Plan focuses on 
preservation of White City’s existing character 
and suggests small, gradual, and targeted 
changes aimed to increase White City’s access 
to opportunities and bolster residents’ quality of 
life. The next pages (6-7) outline the Plan’s five 
key recommendations and nineteen goals. The 
specific actions to accomplish these recommen -
dations and goals can be found at the end of the 
document in the Work Program.
Photo credits, from top to bottom: Mikala Jordan, GSL-MSD; 
Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD; Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD; 
Google Street View; Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD; Google Street 
View.
White City General Plan - Page 6
Key Recommendations and Goals
Goals:
The following goals were developed 
in the public Steering Committee 
meetings for each element of the Plan. 
These goals provide a broad direction 
toward how White City moves forward 
with land use, transportation, and 
lifelong communities decisions.
Land Use (LU)
LU1: Ensure that effective land use 
planning is kept in balance with 
preserving the freedom and rights of 
individual landowners.
LU2: Maintain and promote White 
City’s neighborhood-scale housing 
character (primarily detached resi -
dences) while also promoting a quality 
of life that attracts and sustains new 
Five key recommendations emerged 
from this Plan. These areas guide the 
focus of implementation moving 
forward.
1) Focus on area-specific, small-scale 
infrastructure improvements that 
incorporate place-making; these will 
enhance the day-to-day experiences 
of residents on their land and in public 
spaces. 
2) Update land use codes to be tailored 
to White City’s specific wants and 
needs.
3) Work toward implementing street -
scape improvements that increase 
the safety of all modes of travel, the 
aesthetics of the public right-of-ways, 
and the walkability of White City.
4) Work toward infrastructure imple -
mentation that supports successful 
aging in community, community 
resilience to natural hazards, and envi -
ronmental sustainability.
5) Increase sales tax revenue to support 
desired projects by supporting 
at-home businesses through resources 
and fast internet speeds.

  - Page 7
Key Recommendations
families and the housing needs of the 
Salt Lake valley. 
LU3: Promote a sense of pride and 
identity in the community through 
maintaining and  enhancing place-
making infrastructure. 
LU4: Establish maintenance standards 
that continue to make White City a 
distinctly scenic, fun and appealing 
place to live and visit. 
LU5: Enhance recreational amenities 
and access to public parks and open 
spaces.
LU6: All land use decisions include 
efforts to maintain or improve air and 
water quality.
Transportation (T)
T1: Encourage good access to and 
smooth, safe transitions between key 
locations within and outside of White 
City.
T2: Support transportation areas 
becoming more aesthetically pleasing, 
environmentally friendly, culturally 
interesting, and health-conscious.
T3: Achieve well-maintained transpor -
tation infrastructure.
T4: Support adequate and safe parking.
T5: Increase pedestrian and bicyclist 
access, safety, and comfort.
Lifelong Communities (LC)
LC1: Foster transparency, collaboration, 
and clear communication among officials, 
staff, the public, and other agencies.  
LC2: Encourage digital infrastructure to 
support home-based work, entertain -
ment, and education opportunities. 
LC3: Support small-scale local and 
home-based businesses with access to 
resources for financial assistance and/
or business training and education.  
LC4: Ensure that the built environ -
ment supports people of all ages and 
abilities, allowing safe and easy navi -
gation within the community as well 
as access to important places outside 
the community. 
LC5: Strengthen resilience through 
emergency preparedness and 
response. 
LC6: Make reasonable efforts to 
improve the quality of the natural 
environment and mitigate negative 
environmental impacts.
LC7: Maintain and make needs-appro -
priate improvements to infrastructure 
to support the resilience of the built 
environment. 
LC8: Preserve the heart of White City’s 
character. 
White City General Plan  - Page 8
CHAPTER ONE:
ALL ABOUT PLANNING
What is a General Plan?
A General Plan is a document that guides future 
development in a place. Through the planning 
process, existing conditions are examined, 
desired future conditions are established, and 
a path is laid out to bring a community from 
its present state to its envisioned future. Deci -
sion-makers, residents, and other stakeholders 
can and should use the General Plan to coordi -
nate and implement decisions about land use, 
infrastructure, parks, recreation and open space, 
city services, housing supply and affordability, 
and other public resources. As such, a General 
Plan is a living, fluid document that should be 
regularly reviewed and updated. 
Why make a General Plan?
Municipalities make plans for many reasons. The 
main purpose of a General Plan is to aid a com -
munity in defining and achieving its desired fu -
ture. More specifically, municipalities make Gen -
eral Plans because:
◊ Utah State Code 10-9a-401 requires each 
municipality in Utah to prepare a General 
Plan (LUDMA, 2019).
◊ Plans strengthen community autonomy: 
by establishing a community vision, priori -
ties, and goals, communities avoid change 
“just happening” to them.
◊ Plans enhance decision-making: syncing 
data, local knowledge, and on-the-ground 
conditions enable decisions to be compre -
hensively informed.
◊ With plans, communities can bolster 
strengths, achieve goals, minimize and 
resolve problems, and prevent threats.
◊ Through the establishment of common 
goals, the planning process brings together 
various community members.
Planning Authority
White City became an independent municipality 
with its own governing authority in 2017 after a 
vote of White City residents in 2015. The munic -
ipality is governed by an elected legislative 
council, one of whom is selected by the others 
to be the Mayor. The Mayor serves as the chair 
of the Council. The Metro Township Council has 
the authority to enact laws and ordinances to 
carry out its responsibilities such as land use 
and development regulations (zoning) as long 
as these laws and ordinances are consistent with 
the Utah Municipal Code and other state statutes. 
The Metro Township has all the municipal 
powers allocated by the Utah Municipal Code, 
 - Page 9
and as of the 2021 legislative session, even the 
same powers of taxation. The Metro Township 
does not have the power to enact a property tax. 
White City is a member of the Greater Salt Lake 
Municipal Services District (GSL-MSD or MSD). 
The MSD is a local district, created in 2015 under 
the “Special District Code 17B 2a-11” (Provi -
sions, 2014). The MSD is comprised of five metro 
townships (Copperton, Emigration Canyon, 
Kearns, Magna, White City), one town (Brighton), 
and unincorporated Salt Lake County. 
Utah Code 10-2a-4 allows townships to be 
recognized as municipalities (Municipal Incor -
poration, 2015). The Metro Townships gained 
official recognition as municipalities on January 
1, 2017 through a general election of the citizens 
in 2015. The MSD, together with the govern -
mental alliance of the Metro Townships, has 
formed the first district of its kind in the United 
States. The MSD is empowered to levy a property 
tax on real or personal properties located within 
its boundaries, through the decision of the indi -
vidual metro townships and the MSD board.
The MSD provides the member municipali -
ties with planning and development, business 
license, and code enforcement services as 
part of its membership agreement. The White 
City Council appoints a Planning Commission, 
working with MSD planners, to make recom -
mendations regarding land use decisions to the 
Council. 
During the making or updating of General 
Plans, the White City Council (WCC) appoints a 
General Plan Steering Committee (Figure 1). This 
Steering Committee, composed of residents 
representative of White City’s different back -
grounds and ideas, works with MSD Long Range 
Planners on the development of White City’s 
General Plan. The Steering Committee and MSD 
planners produce a document that the Steering 
Committee then passes to the Planning Commis-
sion. The Planning Commission, at a public 
hearing, makes recommendations to the Council 
regarding the adoption and amendment of the 
General Plan. The Council, at a public meeting, 
can adopt, reject, or revise the General Plan.
Figure 1: The general planning process (adapted from http://www.ruralplanning.org/assets/
general-plan-guide.pdf ).
All About Planning
White City General Plan - Page 10
How do I use this document?
This document uses visual clues to help guide the 
reader. Text differences indicate the following:
Section Title
Section Subtitle
PARAGRAPH TOPICS
Emphasized text/Figure captions
Normal content text
Additionally, pages (normal letter print sized 
paper) or spreads (screen view, two pages 
together) follow visual structures:
What is in this document?
There are five sections in this document. Each is 
further divided into chapters. 
Section one consists of the acknowledgments, 
table of contents, executive summary, and key 
recommendations.
Section two  provides the background informa -
tion that supports the content in section three. 
It includes Chapters 1-3:
◊ Chapter 1 - All About Planning:  explains 
what a general plan is and White City’s 
authority in making one, as well as what is in 
the document and how to use it. It outlines 
the data-gathering methodology too.
◊ Chapter 2 - Community Engagement: 
details how, where, and when public 
feedback was collected and incorporated. 
◊ Chapter 3 - Community Background: 
summarizes White City’s existing demo -
graphic and economic conditions. 
Section three is the meat of the plan; each of 
Chapters 4-6 delves into a specific topic:
◊ Chapter 4 - Land Use: delves into how 
White City’s land is used now and envisions 
future land use by character areas.
◊ Chapter 5 - Transportation: examines 
modes of transportation, infrastructure, 
connectivity, and accessibility.
◊ Chapter 6 - Lifelong Communities: 
examines White City’s conditions and needs 
related to governance, economic opportu -
nities, aging in community, and resilience 
and sustainability.
Look to these boxes...  for background information on 
planning concepts or ideas.
Look to purple Takeaway text... for the main idea 
from a section. The Takeaway suggests how to move 
forward with the information presented.
Look to white boxes with black text for quotes 
from residents or survey responses .
Section four  has the Work Program. It includes 
the major takeaways and action items from the 
other chapters.
◊ Chapter 7 - Work Program: displays the 
tangible actions, with info such as cost and 
funding source, that support the accom -
plishment of the goals, priorities, and vision.
Section five  provides additional information: 
◊ Chapter 8 - References and Resources
◊ Chapter 9 - Appendix A - Glossary 
& FAQ, Appendix B - Survey Results, 
Appendix C - Moderate Income Housing 
Plan, Appendix D - GPSC Meeting Reports.
  - Page 11
Data Gathering & Methodology
This General Plan utilized several reputable 
sources and softwares to gather and analyze 
information on White City’s existing condi -
tions. Several resources assisted in the data 
gathering for most of the chapters. One of these 
is the United States Census Bureau’s American 
Community Survey 2019 5-Year Estimates, 
which provide information about population 
size, demographics, economic traits, commuting 
traits, housing conditions, household sizes, and 
more. ESRI Business Analyst Online reports were 
also used frequently; these reports utilize Census 
data as well as ESRI’s own spatial and consumer 
analyses to provide current conditions as well as 
project future trends for a host of topics.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT -  Surveys were 
created and taken virtually through the program 
Survey1-2-3. The Long Range Planning website, 
which housed all virtual information for the 
General Plan, was hosted via the MSD using the 
program ArcHub. Once the website was created, 
surveys were linked to on this website.
COMMUNITY BACKGROUND -  Statistics came 
from the United State Census Bureau’s American 
Community Survey, 5-Year estimates from 
2019, including tables: DP02 - Selected Social 
Characteristics, DP04 - Selected Housing Char -
acteristics, DP05 - Demographic and Housing 
Estimates, and S2001 - Earnings in the Past 12 
Months.
LAND USE -  Data regarding parcel-based land use 
came from the Wasatch Front Regional Council’s 
2018 Salt Lake County Parcels file geodatabase. 
This information was accessed, displayed, and 
analyzed using Geographic Information Systems 
(ArcPro). The tables of information on acreage, 
market value, housing built years, and more 
included in each Character Area also utilized this 
data source. 
Data for the mapping and analysis of parks and 
trails came from the State of Utah Automated 
Geographic Reference Center. Additionally, 
Geographic Information Systems geoprocessing 
tools were used by staff to trace the section of 
Dimple Dell Park between 700 E and 1300 E. 
Geoprocessing tools were also used to identify 
buffers of various distances around the State of 
Utah trails and parks layers. 
TRANSPORTATION -  Information regarding 
the functional classes of roads in and around 
White City comes from the Utah Department 
of Transportation (UDOT, n.d. A). This infor -
mation was visualized using ArcPro. Data on 
Sego Lily parking, speeding, and other condi -
tions comes from the unpublished Sego Lily 
Corridor Study. This study was conducted by 
White City engineers and Avenue Consulting, 
and the preliminary results were shared at a 
White City Council’s June 4, 2020 meeting and 
with planning staff. The accessibility analysis 
was conducted by the Wasatch Front Regional 
Council for all land within their service area, 
including White City. 
LIFELONG COMMUNITIES -  As an interdisciplinary 
topic, this chapter pulled information from many 
sources, including the United States Census 
Bureau, Salt Lake County Health Department, 
Utah Governor’s Office of Economic Develop -
ment, and ESRI Business Analyst.
All About Planning
White City General Plan  - Page 12
CHAPTER TWO:
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
As a living document, the hope is that future 
updates and related outreach and education 
utilize both in-person and virtual engagement 
methods, which have both been successful.
MEETINGS -  The WCC appointed a General Plan 
Steering Committee (GPSC) to lead the charge 
on this General Plan. The GPSC started with 20 
members; due to the switch to remote meetings 
and changes in  White City’s legislation on 
committees, the process finished with thirteen 
members. Between January 2019 and April  
2021, 25  GPSC meetings occurred as well as 3  
updates at Planning Commission (PC) meetings 
and 9  updates at WCC meetings. All meetings 
were open to the public, and members of the 
public did attend. Meeting agendas were posted 
on the Utah Public Notice website and linked to 
on the White City Long Range Planning website 
more than 24 hours prior to meetings; directions 
for accessing meetings were communicated via 
the Newsletter, on the website, and by postcards 
mailed to all White City households. 
LONG RANGE PLANNING WEBSITE - In August 2019, 
a website for the General Planning process was 
established. Draft plan documents, a timeline of 
the plan’s progress, topical information, active 
surveys, survey results, maps, and more were 
posted on the website. The website was adver -
tised on postcards mailed to every household.
The Importance of Community 
Engagement
Community engagement, together with data on 
existing conditions, forms the backbone of any 
good plan. This is especially true for this General 
Plan, White City’s first ever, which lays out a path 
to achieve the community’s future vision. 
Why? A valid community vision cannot be iden -
tified without community input. Broad outreach 
is necessary to gather this input, especially 
because there is no single opinion on any given 
topic. Occasionally, strong, conflicting opinions 
on White City’s future arose during the General 
Planning process. Understanding that different 
opinions exist and why, and providing opportu -
nities to discuss these opinions was essential to 
producing a robust General Plan that addresses 
everyone’s concerns. 
Knowing this, the White City Council (WCC) and 
planning staff prioritized obtaining broad and 
substantial community input, and community 
input drove this General Plan and its outcomes.  
The Engagement Process
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the public 
engagement process looked different than 
planned. Virtual methods of engagement 
replaced open houses and in-person workshops. 
 - Page 13
Photo credit: Mikala Jordan, GSL-MSD
What types of public  
engagement  are  there?
The gold standard for understanding public 
engagement processes is called the IAP2 
Spectrum (IAP2, 2018). It categorizes five types 
of engagement--inform, consult, involve, collab -
orate, and empower--based upon the public’s 
increasing ability to impact decisions. With 
informing, the public has the least impact on 
decisions; staff provides the public with infor -
mation. With empowering, the public has the 
most impact on decisions; the final decision is 
in the hands of the public, and the public has 
been working with staff throughout the process. 
During this general planning process, all five 
levels of public engagement were utilized at 
different times. For instance, staff communicated 
information on planning concepts (inform), and 
members of the public created the goals for 
each chapter during meetings (collaborate). 
Following the Process:
Starting in December 2019, after GPSC meetings, 
staff sent out a report summarizing the meeting’s 
purpose, attendees, process, and outcomes. 
Reports were sent to the GPSC to ensure docu -
mentation of meeting efforts and enable a clear 
written record that committee members could 
easily reference to jog their memories between 
meetings.
Additionally, official meeting minutes and/or an 
auditory meeting recording were posted on the 
Utah State Public Notice website. 
Find the meeting reports in Appendix D.
IN-PERSON EVENTS -  In addition to the standard 
public meetings, four in-person Open Houses 
and Workshops were hosted as well. Find details 
about the noticing, attendance, and outcomes 
of these events on pages 16-23 of this chapter.
SURVEYS -  Especially after the emergence of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the Steering Committee 
and staff utilized public surveys to gather 
community feedback. Three  surveys were 
distributed to the public: Transportation and 
Land Use, Land and Character, and Area Needs 
and Priorities.  All together, 197  sets of responses 
were collected from these surveys. For each 
survey, every household in White City received 
a postcard in the mail detailing the content and 
purpose of the new survey and how to access it.
OTHER WRITTEN FEEDBACK -  Once any chapter 
of this General Plan was drafted*, it was posted 
on the White City Long Range Planning website, 
along with a virtual comment box. This allowed 
anyone to access the chapters and provide 
feedback to the Steering Committee. Addition -
ally, planning staff shared their phone numbers 
and emails, and fielded questions, comments, 
and concerns via those mediums.
*Except the Housing Chapter: this was added to the website later.
Community Engagement
White City General Plan - Page 14
17 JAN 2019: General 
Plan Kick-off Event, 
including SWOT & 
APAE, occurs.
1
24 APR 2019:  Commu-
nity-wide Workshop, 
including Top 6 Priori-
ties, occurs.
23 APR 2019: GPSC 
meetings start, 
approximately one 
per month.
25 JUNE 2019: Vision 
Statement is created 
at GPSC meeting.
28 SEPT 2019: Moder-
ate-Income Housing 
Open House, with 
voting on strategies.
14 NOV 2019: Moder-
ate-Income Housing 
Element is adopted.
30 JAN 2020: Trans-
portation Values 
Workshop occurs.
8 APR 2020: Transpor-
tation and Land Use 
Survey is launched.
General Plan Engagement Major Events Timeline
11 AUG 2020:  Long 
range planning and 
general plan website 
is launched.
8 AUG 2020: Land and 
Character Survey is 
launched.
2
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3

  - Page 15
3 NOV 2020: Area 
Needs and Land 
Priorities Survey is 
launched.
5 JAN 2021: GPSC 
meetings begin 
occurring twice per 
month.
13 APRIL 2021: Last 
GPSC meeting occurs.
? ?? 2021: WCC hears 
public comments and 
votes on the plan.
? ?? 2021: PC hears 
public comments 
and provides a plan 
recommendation.
13
12
11
14
15
THROUGHOUT
25 General Plan Steering  
Committee meetings
3 Updates at Planning  
Commission meetings
9 Updates at Council  
meetings
TOTALS
752+ written commentswritten comments
197  submitted surveys
5 online feedback   
opportunity boxes with   
13 submissions
5 in-person workshops
7  mailers with updates to  
residents
Community Engagement

White City General Plan - Page 16
General Plan Kickoff 
On January 17th, 2019, White City held its 
General Plan Kickoff event at Eastmont Middle 
School. This open house started off the process 
for White City to create this General Plan.
As part of the open house, residents shared 
their impressions of White City. First, residents 
completed a Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportu -
nities, and Threats (SWOT) analysis. They listed 
any ideas or observations that came to mind 
when they considered White City’s strengths, 
weaknesses, opportunities, and threats as a 
community. This analysis aims to understand 
a community’s needs and possibilities. The 
list to the right showcases all of the residents’ 
comments.
Then, residents participated in an Achieve, 
Preserve, Avoid, and Eliminate (APAE) analysis. 
This analysis looks at the interplay between “yes” 
and “no. ” Community members answer yes or no 
to the questions: “Do we have it?” and “Do we 
want it?” The answers to these questions guide 
whether a particular condition, event, or charac -
teristic should be achieved, preserved, avoided, 
or eliminated. The list to the left includes all 
resident comments for the APAE. 
Together, SWOT and APAE analyses provide the 
baseline understanding of the community from 
which the plan is built. The analyses reveal a 
community’s understanding of its current condi -
tions and desired future. The SWOT and APAE 
show the value White City places on accessing 
amenities, keeping infrastructure well-main -
tained, walkability, and being family-friendly, 
community-oriented, and affordable.

- Page 17
White City residents gather around the “Threats” 
worksheet during the General Plan Kickoff event.
Throughout this plan, the SWOT and APAE 
comments related to each chapter’s topic are 
pulled out and presented in that chapter.
This diagram illustrates the interplay between 
“yes” and “no” with regard to “Does White City 
have it?” and “Does White City want it?”
Community Engagement
Photo credit: GSL-MSD
White City General Plan - Page 18
Community-Wide Workshop
White City hosted a community-wide workshop 
on April 24, 2019 in the auditorium at Eastmont 
Middle School. 107 people attended. The goal 
of this workshop was to process the SWOT and 
APAE lists as a community and derive the main, 
overarching ideas from them. Residents voted 
on the relative importance of these ideas. Thus, 
an understanding of the community’s top prior -
ities emerged.
Top 6 Priorities
1. Preserve single family housing
2. Eliminate blight
3. Horse property
Photo Credit: Google Maps.
Photo Credit: Google Street View.
Photo Credit: Steve Hardy, The Advocate.
What is blight?
“Eliminate blight” emerged as the second highest 
priority for White City. So what exactly is blight? Do 
any properties in White City fall into this category? 
According to Utah State Code 17A-2-1221, blight 
is an area with two or more of a list of ten charac -
teristics, including issues regarding construction, 
overcrowding, dilapidation, and inadequate venti -
lation or sanitation, among others (Senate Bill 53, 
1997).
When residents mentioned blight in Steering 
Committee meetings or during other public 
outreach processes, they talked about mainte -
nance issues. Roofs, siding, or fences needing 
repair; over-vegetated yards; and junk in yards were 
commonly discussed problems. As the fifth charac -
teristic in the State Code includes “deterioration” and 
“dilapidation, ” some properties may meet one, but 
not two, of the characteristics of blight. Therefore, 
“eliminate blight” as presented in this plan refers to 
maintenance and upkeep issues, as opposed to an 
official legislative definition of blight. Often, these 
issues arise from aging, illness, or financial struggles 
of the householder.
- Page 19
General Plan Steering 
Committee Meetings
The General Plan Steering Committee meetings 
are where the bulk of the plan creation occurs. 
Here, appointed, volunteer members and any 
members of the public in attendance work 
together. They develop knowledge of existing 
conditions and of public opinions. They first use 
this knowledge to develop an understanding of 
where White City wants to be ten, twenty years 
down the road. Then they ideate ways (policies, 
actions, and projects) to make that future vision 
possible. 
When the Committee was happy with drafts, 
they were shared with the Planning Commis -
sion (PC) and Council (WCC). The PC and WCC’s 
feedback was collected at their meetings. The 
Steering Committee discussed this feedback 
and determined which suggestions to act on.
Vision Statement
A vision statement summarizes what a 
community aspires to be and to embody. It gives 
an idea of a community’s desired future. White 
City’s vision statement was created during a 
GPSC meeting on June 25, 2019. The Steering 
Committee used the SWOT and APAE results as 
well as the Top 6 Priorities to derive the vision 
statement. It declares:
“White City is a safe, affordable, 
close-knit, family-oriented, and 
unique community with access to 
amenities that meet the diverse 
needs of its residents. ”
4. Preserve natural resources
5. Walkability
6. Explore neighborhood commercial
Photo Credit: Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD.
Photo Credit: Google Street View.
Photo Credit: Flickr, Complete Streets.
Community Engagement
White City General Plan - Page 20
Moderate-Income Housing 
Open House
A Moderate-Income Housing Open House 
occurred on 28 September 2019 for White City, 
Kearns, and Magna. Each household in White 
City received a mailed flyer that advertised the 
event. The Open House flyer was also posted 
to the State of Utah Public Notice and White 
City municipal websites. The Council, Steering 
Committee, and Planning Commission were 
emailed and provided information on the open 
house, and they were asked to invite friends 
and neighbors. Local and state agencies and 
non-profits concerned with housing were 
invited as well. 
PART 1 - At the Open House, Salt Lake County 
Regional Development spoke about home 
repair initiatives. White City could partner 
with these kinds of programs to strengthen its 
moderate-income housing supply. Following 
this presentation, People + Place, LLC spoke with 
residents about community needs, including 
regional housing concerns.
PART 2 - Participants were then asked to provide 
feedback and share their opinions. Planning staff 
worked with communities in break-out sessions. 
Large printed maps of current zoning, housing, 
and transportation systems were used as visual 
aids. Attendees discussed the 23 Menu Items 
presented by the State of Utah in Senate Bill 
34 as potential strategies for providing moder -
ate-income housing. They talked through what 
they thought could be implemented and what 
they thought would be effective. They expressed 
concerns over zoning changes. 
Part 1 of the Open House - Informing: Residents 
listen to presentations about planning for moder-
ate-income housing, moderate-income housing 
programs, and regional housing concerns.
The Open House Flyer.
Photo Credit: GSL-MSD.
- Page 21
PART 3 - Community members then voted on 
their top three preferred Menu Items prescribed 
by Senate Bill 34. These items were listed in large 
print on easels. Each community was assigned a 
different color sticker for planning staff to record 
those items preferred by each community. White 
City residents voted for 14 of the 23 items (Figure 
2). Additionally, a Comments Box was provided 
for the public to leave opinions not captured 
by the voting exercise, or people could email 
comments. Sixteen White City residents left 
written comments for the Housing Element. The 
Housing Element was adopted on November 14, 
2019.
Figure 2: All 14 menu items that received votes. 
The top five are highlighted in pink.
Part 3 of the Open House - Empowering: 
Residents vote for up to their three favorite 
moderate-income housing strategies.
Part 2 of the Open House - Collaborating: 
Residents gathered around this map and 
discussed the moderate-income housing strate -
gies most appropriate for White City.
Photo Credit: GSL-MSD.
Community Engagement
White City General Plan - Page 22
Transportation Planning Values 
Workshop
On January 30, 2020, members of the Greater 
Salt Lake Municipal Services District gathered 
to discuss transportation values and principles 
applicable to all the GSL-MSD communities. The 
Council, Planning Commission, and Steering 
Committee were asked to represent their 
communities in this workshop. Additionally, the 
workshop was open to members of the public. 
The workshop had three objectives:
◊ to provide background information on 
transportation trends and innovations to key 
GSL-MSD decision makers
◊ to produce a suite of key transportation 
values that can be used to guide transporta -
tion planning across the GSL-MSD, and
◊ to produce a suite of key transporta -
tion principles that can be used to link the 
GSL-MSD to surrounding areas.
PART 1 - Speakers from the Wasatch Front 
Regional Council and Salt Lake City Division of 
Transportation Planning provided background 
information on transportation. 
PART 2 -  Participants formed breakout groups to 
share their thoughts on values in the GSL-MSD. 
A list of values categorized as environmental, 
social and cultural, economic, or process-based 
was provided to assist with brainstorming. After 
discussion and rounds of voting, staff tallied the 
results (Figure 3). 
Three White City residents chat before Part 1 of 
the Transportation Values Workshop begins.
Residents from different municipalities, 
including White City, sit together in Part 2 of the 
workshop. They share their thoughts on local 
and regional values that inform transportation 
planning in the MSD-areas.
Photo Credits: Mikala Jordan, GSL-MSD.
- Page 23
Figure 3: Top Transportation Values picked by GSL-MSD Municipal Representatives
PART 3 - The breakout groups were assigned one 
of the top five most voted for values. Each group 
discussed some principles that might help to 
clarify the values and how transportation plans 
could be implemented in alignment with those 
values.
RELEVANCE - Because transportation planning 
crosses jurisdictional boundaries, regional 
coordination and collaboration regarding trans -
portation is important. At the same time, local 
transportation conditions and needs differ. For 
these reasons, when local plans understand 
regional ones, and when regional plans consider 
local ones, both are strengthened. One, the 
exchange of specific, localized information and 
broad, overarching information supports depth 
of knowledge presented in both plans. And two, 
the alignment of various plans makes imple -
mentation of those plans more feasible. 
This workshop was summarized to the General 
Plan Steering Committee, and the values 
generated from the workshop were found to 
align with the transportation goals identified by 
the Steering Committee.
Community Engagement
White City General Plan - Page 24
Transportation and Land Use 
Survey
BACKGROUND - A Transportation Workshop for 
White City specifically was planned for March 
2020. A flyer for the event was mailed to each 
household. However, when the novel COVID-19 
broke out, the workshop was postponed. When 
it became obvious that an open house would 
not be possible for an indefinite period, staff and 
the Steering Committee agreed to gather wide -
spread public opinion on transportation needs 
with a survey.
PROCESS - The Transportation and Land Use 
Survey launched April 8 and closed on August 
21, 2020. It was distributed using electronic 
and paper methods. It was sent to the Council, 
Planning Commission, and Steering Committee 
via email, posted on the GSL-MSD website and 
social media (with paid advertising), and posted 
on the White City municipal website. Two flyers 
with the link and QR code were sent to each 
household. The survey was also mentioned in a 
blurb in the White City newsletter.
RESULTS - 70 sets of responses were collected, 
with 208 written comments. The responses 
correlated closely with Steering Committee 
discussions.  Findings conveyed that residents 
value safe neighborhoods and would like to see 
better maintained infrastructure, more public 
transportation options, and increased walk -
ability. See highlights in Figure 4 to the right, or 
find the entire survey in Appendix B.
Figure 4: How important are the following trans -
portation concerns? Not important, Important, 
or Very Important?

- Page 25
Land and Character Survey
BACKGROUND - land use planning includes under-
standing a community’s character (unique traits) 
and its design preferences. This visually-based 
survey aimed to understand how residents expe-
rience White City: do parts of White City differ 
from each other, and therefore require different 
planning efforts? It asked residents to upload 
pictures of places or characteristics of White City 
that they liked, didn’t like, wanted preserved, 
or wanted prevented. Residents could upload 
example images or submit written descriptions. 
The second part of the survey showed images of 
built environment features and asked residents 
which images they preferred.
PROCESS - The Land and Character Survey opened 
on August 8 and closed on October 1, 2020. Like 
the Transportation and Land Use Survey, it was 
distributed using electronic and paper methods. 
It was sent to the Council, Planning Commis -
sion, and Steering Committee via email, posted 
on the GSL-MSD website and social media, and 
posted on the White City municipal website. A 
flyer with the link and QR code was sent to each 
household, with contact information if a resident 
needed assistance with the survey. 
RESULTS - 53 sets of responses were obtained, 
leaving 247 written comments and 33 pictures. 
White City’s small town feel and residen -
tial character were emphasized. Results also 
indicated varying opinions on incorporating 
mixed use. However, responses about built envi -
ronment standards can guide design regardless 
of development type. See highlights in Figures 
5 and 6, or find the entire survey in Appendix B.
Please upload pictures of, or describe, places/
features of White City that you like, and think 
should be preserved. Some submitted images 
included Quincy Pool and the agricultural proper -
ties:
Figure 5: Select the mixed use building designs 
that fit the character of White City. 
Figure 6: In the future, where do you think it 
would be most appropriate to allow mixed use 
areas in White City?
Images submitted by unknown White City residents.
Community Engagement
White City General Plan - Page 26
Area Needs and Land Priorities 
Survey
BACKGROUND - This survey asked residents to 
identify specific likes and dislikes in five different 
areas within White City. It also asked residents 
about land use policies and priorities.
PROCESS - The Area Needs and Land Priorities 
Survey launched November 3 and closed on 
December 10, 2020. Like previous surveys, it was 
advertised using electronic and paper methods. 
It was posted on the GSL-MSD website and social 
media, and posted on the White City municipal 
website. A flyer with the link was mailed to each 
household. 
Figure 7: The graph below depicts the number of “Very Important” responses to five themes: Preserving 
White City’s agricultural land, especially the ability to raise and ride horses; Preserving the single-family 
bungalow, ranch, and minimal traditional style housing characteristic of White City; Supporting at-home 
businesses whose sales tax revenues help fund capital improvement projects in White City; Protecting 
and valuing natural resources, such as the parks and trails; and, Respecting individuals’ rights to use 
their properties.
RESULTS - When the survey closed, 74 sets of 
responses had been collected, with 273 written 
comments. Land use considerations regarding 
natural resources, residential opportunities, 
property rights, and home businesses are 
all viewed as important, to varying degrees. 
Residents identified distinct characteristics of, 
and future visions for, each area. Responses 
for the Canal Trail, Sego Lily Corridor, and Resi -
dential Neighborhoods areas illustrate a highly 
unified vision for each of those areas. Responses 
regarding the Southern Spur and 10600 
Corridors convey more than one vision for each 
of those areas. See highlights below in Figure 7, 
or find the entire survey in Appendix B.
- Page 27
“Share Your Thoughts”: Online 
Comment Boxes
BACKGROUND - When draft chapters (elements) 
of this General Plan were produced, they were 
posted on the White City Long Range Planning 
Hub site. 
PROCESS - Comment boxes were provided so 
that residents could leave feedback on the 
draft chapter (Figures 8a and 8b). Additionally, 
a version of this question was posed for each 
chapter: “Does the draft element generally 
reflect your preferences for the future of [that 
element] in White City?” This question was asked 
for the Transportation, Land Use, and Lifelong 
Communities elements. When mailers were sent 
to residents to inform them of new surveys, 
the opportunities to leave feedback on draft 
elements were included as well. 
RESULTS - Thirteen sets of responses were 
submitted, including eight written comments. 
Of the sixteen responses regarding whether a 
chapter generally reflected a residents’ prefer -
ences, eleven agreed or strongly agreed, three 
were neutral, and two disagreed or strongly 
disagreed. Comment boxes for individual 
chapters closed on March 24th, 2021. Upon 
the closing of the individual comment boxes, a 
comment box for the entire plan was activated 
on the website. This comment box is accessible 
throughout the formal public comment process 
that happens after the Steering Committee 
transmitted the fully drafted plan to the Planning 
Commission and before the Planning Commis -
sion hosts their public hearing to consider 
recommending the plan.
Figure 8a: Feedback Appearance on Website
Figure 8b: Feedback Survey
Community Engagement
White City General Plan  - Page 28
(Salt Lake Surveyor’s Office, 1933), and in 1950, 
Sandy had 2,092 residents (Salt Lake County 
Surveyor’s Office, 1951). 
In the 1950s, settlement in the Salt Lake Valley 
began to pick up again. Two developers, Ken 
White and Cannon Papanicholas, began building 
in an area that Ken White dubbed “White City” 
(White City, n.d.). White City soon became a 
census-designated place. The community grew, 
becoming an unincorporated township in 2006 
and an incorporated metro township in 2017. 
Today
White City today is a community of 5,810 people 
located in the southeastern part of Salt Lake 
County, Utah (United States Census Bureau, 
2019) (Figure 9). White City is surrounded by 
Sandy City but retains a distinct, unique identity. 
Find a summary infographic of demographic 
and economic trends on pages 30-31; it uses 
data from the United States Census Bureau’s 
“American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates, “ 
2019. For a thorough report on White City’s 
recent existing conditions, look at the 2019 
White City Technical Assessment which predom -
inantly uses 2017 American Community Survey 
data (GSL-MSD, 2019 B). 
CHAPTER THREE:
COMMUNITY BACKGROUND
History
Native American hunter-gatherers first inhabited 
what would become Utah as early as 10,000 
B.C.E. (Lewis, n.d.). In approximately 400 C.E., the 
Fremont peoples made northern and eastern 
Utah their home (Ibid). Later, the Shoshone, 
Paiute, Goshute, and Ute peoples lived in parts 
of the Salt Lake Valley (SLCo, n.d. A) and likely 
traveled in what is today White City. 
In 1847, pioneers of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of the Latter-Day Saints entered the Salt Lake 
Valley. Some farms were established in the 
southeastern area of modern day Salt Lake 
County; otherwise, the area experienced limited 
development until the 1860s. In 1864, silver was 
discovered in Little Cottonwood Canyon (Notar -
ianni, n.d.). This discovery spurred the building 
of mills and smelters in the area. Additionally, 
railroad expansion, including the Denver and 
Rio Grande Railroad’s Little Cottonwood Branch, 
encouraged development (UtahRails.net, 2019).
Sandy City was the first community in the area 
to incorporate, in 1893 (Notarianni, n.d.). Growth 
in Sandy and the greater southeastern Salt 
Lake County area remained low during several 
decades of a “bust, ” when mining operations 
slowed. In 1930, Sandy had a population of 1,436 
 - Page 29
Figure 9: White City, Utah
Community Background
White City General Plan - Page 30
$68,935
median household income
WHITE CITY AT A 
GLANCE
8.5% of families live below 
the poverty line based on a 
4 person household 
 
432.7 acres
0.67 square miles
Southeastern  
Salt Lake County, 
Utah
1,866 Residential Parcels
5,747 people
3,094 people
are in the labor force
POPULATION
$50,692
male median earnings
$33,400
female median earnings
2021, Esri Community Analyst Community Profile Report.
3.49 is the average 
household size
34.8% of households  
have at least one child 
under 18 years old
15.7% 
of people have a disability
- Page 31
47.2% have lived in White 
City for 20+ years
86.8% speak only English at 
home
7.4% speak Spanish at home
$338,931
median house value
87.3%
high school graduate or 
higher
27.7%
bachelor’s 
or graduate 
degree
EDUCATION
HOUSING
1,551
276
owner-occupied units
renter-occupied units
13.2% speak a language 
other than English at home
776 people aged 65+ years
219 people do not own or 
lease a vehicle
Community Background
2021 Esri Community Analyst; All other data presented was 
derived from United States Census Bureau, 2019.
7.5% of households are a 
person 65+ years living alone
87.0% identify as white alone
3.4% identify as two or more 
races
2.8% identify as Asian
There are 250 one-person 
households and 1,421 
family households.
White City General Plan  - Page 32
CHAPTER FOUR:
LAND USE
Photo credit: Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD
Key Recommendations:
Focus on area-specific, small-scale 
infrastructure improvements that 
incorporate place-making; these will 
enhance the day-to-day experiences 
of residents on their land and in public 
spaces. Update land use codes to be 
tailored to White City’s specific wants 
and needs.
Goals:
◊ LU1: Ensure that effective land use 
planning is kept in balance with preserving 
the freedom and rights of individual land -
owners.
◊ LU2: Maintain and promote White City’s 
neighborhood-scale housing character 
(primarily detached residences) while also 
promoting a quality of life that attracts and 
sustains new families and the housing needs 
of the Salt Lake valley. 
◊ LU3: Promote a sense of pride and identity 
in the community through maintaining 
and enhancing place-making infrastructure. 
◊ LU4: Establish maintenance standards 
that continue to make White City a distinctly 
scenic, fun and appealing place to live and 
visit. 
◊ LU5: Enhance recreational amenities and 
access to public parks and open spaces.
◊ LU6: All land use decisions include efforts 
to maintain or improve air and water quality.
 - Page 33
The Importance of Land Use
The Land Use Element establishes a vision for the 
future pattern of development in a community. 
It is the single most important element of the 
General Plan, bridging each of the plan’s unique 
sections together. Understanding current land 
use challenges and planning for future land use 
opportunities is critical because land use is part 
of the fabric of a community. Why? Land use 
impacts everything: housing, transportation, 
economic opportunities, access to daily needs, 
and quality of life. 
For example, thoughtful land use ensures that 
households have access to transportation and 
recreational amenities, that schools are not 
located near sources of pollution, that local busi -
nesses receive the traffic they need to stay afloat, 
and that municipal services and infrastructure 
can be provided efficiently. The pattern of land 
use in a community is thus a major determinant 
of area character and quality of life. Even though 
White City is entirely built out, having a well-in -
formed, community-driven land use element is 
essential for the community to realize its vision 
for itself. 
Throughout this chapter, the connections 
between White City’s land use and the afore -
mentioned topics are explored through 
data-analysis, public feedback, and on-the-
ground experiences. 
What does the State Code say 
about Land Use?
The state of Utah acknowledges the importance 
of land use regulation to community develop -
ment and wellbeing. To comply with state law, 
Utah municipalities must incorporate a land 
use element into the General Plan. According to 
Utah State Code 10-9a-403, General Plans must 
include in the land use element:
“The long-term goals and the proposed extent, 
general distribution, and location of land for 
housing for residents of various income levels, 
business, industry, agriculture, recreation, 
education, public buildings and grounds, open 
space, and other categories of public and private 
uses of land as appropriate” (LUDMA, 2020).
Additionally, the land use element may include: 
“a statement of the projections for and standards 
of population density and building intensity 
recommended for the various land use catego -
ries covered by the plan” (LUDMA, 2020).
This chapter of the General Plan meets and 
exceeds these requirements. Various land uses 
are analyzed and discussed, and standards for 
density and intensity for different areas are 
proposed. Additionally, a clear vision, with both 
qualitative and quantitative descriptions, is 
provided for each area, in order to ensure that 
development decisions align with the commu -
nity’s wants and needs.
Land Use
White City General Plan - Page 34
What does the community have 
to say about land use?
MEETINGS - Nine GPSC meetings focused on land 
use (May 2020 - January 2021). GPSC meetings 
tackled controversial topics, such as private 
property rights and how much land use change 
should occur in White City’s future; committee 
members represented various opinions on these 
topics. 
SURVEYS -  White City residents expressed their 
thoughts on land use via three surveys described 
in the Community Engagement Chapter: Trans-
portation and Land Use, Land and Character , 
and Area Needs and Land Priorities.  In total, 197 
unique responses on land use were collected via 
these three surveys. Surveys showed a desire to 
maintain White City’s primarily residential feel 
and to improve land use aesthetics via mainte -
nance and landscaping. Surveys also revealed 
some desire for increased business opportuni -
ties, such as by allowing small-scale mixed-use 
(commercial or institutional and residential) 
properties in specific areas.
VISION STATEMENT -  White City’s Vision Statement 
emphasizes the values placed on community 
and on neighborliness; these values can and 
should be supported by land use decisions.
PRIORITIES: - The Top 6 Priorities all relate to land 
use and indicate interest in a predominantly 
residential community with a mix of other uses.
SWOT AND APAE ANALYSES -  Both the SWOT 
and APAE analyses convey multiple issues and 
opportunities related to land use. Find the public 
comments from these analyses on page 35.
Photo Credit: White City Metro Township
Who is involved with land use 
planning in White City?
White City has land use authority over the areas 
within its boundaries. White City has an elected 
body, the Council, and an appointed body, 
the Planning Commission, both of which are 
involved with land use decisions. The Planning 
Commission makes recommendations to the 
Council regarding General Plans, zoning, land 
use ordinances, and subdivision applications. 
The Council has final land use authority and, as 
the legislative body, determines land use ordi -
nances.
Land use planning occurs at local, regional, 
and state levels. White City contracts with the 
GSL-MSD to provide land use services, including 
planning and ordinance development. However, 
land use values relevant to White City appear in 
state and regional spaces, such as the regional 
plan, Wasatch Choice 2050 (WFRC, 2019). It is 
important to recognize these values, as aligning 
White City’s goals with regional and statewide 
values increases the likelihood of acquiring 
funding and successfully implementing projects. 
Land Use - Page 35
Takeaway: Exploring small-scale commercial 
development is viewed both negatively and posi-
tively; it appears under “threat” and “avoid, ” yet 
the lack of commercial tax base is a “weakness” 
and annexing businesses is an “achieve”: finding 
a balance is important.
Takeaway: White City should maintain its resi -
dential, neighborhood feel, explore options to 
improve community aesthetics, protect property 
rights, and protect outdoor amenities.

White City General Plan - Page 36
Map Credit: Salt Lake County Surveyor’s Office.
A Brief History of Land Use in 
and around White City
While two White City structures were built 
before 1900 (one farmhouse on the corner of 
Buddlea Drive and Columbine Circle, and one 
on 10600 South), development of White City 
took off in 1955 (Figure 9). The first part of White 
City to be settled was Galena Drive. Develop -
ment continued around Galena, in the area west 
of the Canal Trail between Emerald Drive to the 
north and Larkspur Drive to the south, and east 
of the Canal Trail around Antimony Lane and 
Barrium Lane. The majority of the rest of White 
City developed before 1980. Based on the clear 
pattern with few outlying structures, there have 
been few rebuilds in White City up to this point.
Through this time, White City’s boundaries have 
experienced some change. In 1980, White City 
was a community but not a recognized township 
and included additional land below 10600 South 
but no land above 9400 South (Figure 10). The 
boundary around S Dolomite Lane and E Cobalt 
Lane also shifted. Today’s boundaries were 
established in 2006 when White City became 
an unincorporated township. Dimple Dell Park 
bisects White City but is is not under the juris -
diction of White City nor within its boundaries.
Figure 10: Boundaries from 1980
  - Page 37
Figure 9: White City developed from the northwest down to the southeast.
Land Use
White City General Plan - Page 38
Parcel-based Land Use
Land use varies at the parcel level (Figure 11). 
Variation among parcels can occur within 
the same zone. For example, within a single-
family residential zone, one parcel might have 
a two-story home, while one adjacent parcel is 
vacant and another hosts a school. Grouping 
parcels allows land use patterns to emerge. 
The WFRC produced a dataset in 2018 that 
uses aerial imagery to categorize how parcels 
are used. While this system is not guaran -
teed to reflect uses with 100 percent accuracy, 
comparing the relative amount of parcels per 
land use category provides an overall picture of 
land use in the community. 
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL - Land is primarily 
used for single family residential purposes. In 
fact, 386.0 acres, or 70% of White City’s 551.5 
acres, is used for single family residences. An 
additional 0.55 acres (0.1%) are associated single 
family parcels.
Parcel count: 1,889
Median parcel acreage: 0.19 acres
Median building square feet: 1,972
Median parcel value: $222,900
Earliest & latest year built: 1903, 2017
OPEN AND/OR PARK SPACE - White City land is 
also used for open and/or park space. Big Bear 
Park and the Canal Trail together take up 21.5 
acres (3.9%).
Parcel count: 26
Median parcel acreage: 0.13 acres
Median parcel value: $6,450
GOVERNMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL - 24.5 acres 
(4.4%) are used for government and institutional 
purposes, including one school and several 
churches. 
Parcel count: 16
Median parcel acreage:  0.14 acres
Median building square feet: 2,006
Median parcel value: $160,650
Earliest & latest year built: 1969, 2018
COMMERCIAL - 1.7 acres (0.3%) of land are used 
for commercial purposes.
Parcel count: 2
Median parcel acreage: 0.95 acres
Median building square feet: 6,364
Median parcel value: $575,400
Earliest & latest year built: 1968, 1996
ROADWAYS AND UTILITIES -  114.1 acres (20.7%) 
and 50 parcels are taken up by roads and utilities.
VACANT - 1.4 acres and 8 parcels register as 
vacant via the aerial imagery analysis.
OTHER - 1.8 acres and 2 parcels are used for other 
uses, including the pool.
NEARBY LAND USES:  While land near White City is 
primarily single family residential as well, there 
is a greater mix of other uses. Commercial and 
government/institutional properties are concen -
trated in the State Street and I-15 Corridors 
to the west, the 700 E Corridor, and between  
8600 S and 9400 S. These commercial areas are 
likely frequented by White City residents. Several 
large, regional parks are located in the vicinity 
too - most notably, Dimple Dell Park.
  - Page 39
Figure 11: Current Land Use
Land Use
White City General Plan - Page 40
Zoning
While the previous land use analysis looks at 
how each parcel is used (regardless of zone), this 
zoning analysis looks at the zoning ordinances 
present in White City. So, for example, White 
City’s churches are considered government/
institutional land use, but they sit in the R-1-8 
zone. However, the zoning analysis generally 
reflects the parcel-based land use: The vast 
majority of White City is zoned single-family resi -
dential, creating a municipality that feels like one 
big neighborhood (Figure 12). White City also 
includes one commercial property and several 
agricultural properties. Find the breakdown of 
land by broad zoning category below and by 
specific zone in the Zoning Map.
BROAD ZONING CATEGORIES
Single-family residential , zones R-1-21 and 
R-1-8:
◊ Takes up 414.67 acres, or 94.7 percent of 
White City’s land
◊ R-1-21: low density residential, 2.0 units 
per acre, minimum 1/2 acre lots
◊ R-1-21/zc: the same zone as R-1-21, except 
that the property has been granted a condi -
tional use too. This occurs on a case-by-case 
basis.
◊ R-1-8: 4.5 units per acre, minimum 8,000 
square foot lots
Commercial, zone C-2:
◊ Takes up 0.47 acres, or 0.1 percent of 
White City’s land
What is zoning? 
Zoning is a mechanism for a municipality to 
exercise authority regarding its land uses and 
built environment (any human-constructed or 
manipulated surroundings) standards. All land 
within a municipality is assigned to a zone. In 
Euclidean zoning (which is what White City 
has), the use of land is dictated by ordinance. 
Each zone has a set of regulations, including 
permitted and prohibited uses, that guide 
development specifically in that area. In most 
residential single-family zones, for example, one 
single-family home is permitted per lot, while 
stores or factories are prohibited. 
Land Use - Page 41
◊ C-2: community commercial develop -
ment, limited to 60 percent lot coverage 
Agricultural, zones A-1 and A-2:
◊ Takes up 22.58 acres, or 5.2 percent of 
White City’s land
◊ A-1: low density residential plus limited 
agricultural uses, minimum 10,000 square 
foot lots
◊ A-2: low density residential and agricul -
tural uses, minimum one-acre lots, limited 
to 70 percent lot coverage
White City’s current zoning ordinances and land 
use codes come from Salt Lake County and are 
not tailored to White City specifically. White 
City had to adopt these codes upon its incor -
poration, but can update them according to 
an adopted General Plan. Although White City 
has five zones, there are 50 distinct zones in the 
municipal code (Muni Code, 2018). Because the 
zones are included in the code, a landowner 
could appeal to the Planning Commission to 
rezone their land to one of the listed zones, even 
though the list includes dozens of zones not 
desired for or applicable to White City (industrial 
zones, forestry zones, high density commercial 
zones, etc.). 
Additionally, new technologies and conditions 
have emerged since the zoning ordinances 
were created almost four decades ago. The 
emergence of rideshares, increased internet 
use and capacity, and that demand for housing 
outstrips supply of housing in the Salt Lake 
Valley, for example, are three factors that impact 
land uses and needs. Accordingly, these should 
be considered in zoning ordinances.
Takeaway: Zoning ordinances and other land use 
codes need to be updated and tailored to White 
City’s voiced needs and desires via a thorough 
public process, including a working group with 
planning staff, community representatives, 
residents, and other staff as needed. Zones not 
desired for White City should be removed from 
the ordinance, and remaining zones should 
take into account current and future needs and 
opportunities.
Figure 12: Zoning
White City General Plan - Page 42
When asked, “Please describe places/features 
of White City that you like, and think should 
be preserved, ” the top theme in the written 
responses was parks, trails, and walking 
paths. 24 of the 53 responses mentioned this 
theme - Land and Character Survey , Summer 
2020.
The benefits of Parks and Trails:
From health to the economy, there are many 
benefits of parks and trails to communities. 
These include:
◊ improved physical and mental health of 
residents;
◊ generates customers for nearby busi -
nesses;
◊ improved community cohesion arises 
from residents seeing each other out and 
about;
◊ ability for children to have a place to play 
regardless of a home’s yard size;
◊ ability to showcase community history 
and culture using artwork and signage at 
parks and along trails; and,
◊ ecological benefits.
Photo Credit: Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD
Takeaway: It is important to communicate to 
Salt Lake County the value of Dimple Dell Park 
to White City.
Parks, Trails, and Open Space
ACCESS - White City enjoys one 14.6 acre park, 
Big Bear Park. It sits in northeastern White City 
and includes amenities such as a pavilion, play -
ground, historic bear statue, and sports fields. 
Dimple Dell Park, a county park, bisects White City 
and includes multiple trails. The Sandy-Draper 
Canal Trail, a multi-use, paved, traffic-separated 
path, runs through White City (becoming the 
White City Canal Trail) from 10600 S up to Big 
Bear Park. Additionally, Lone Peak Park is located 
in Sandy adjacent to White City’s western border.
66.9 percent of White City sits within 0.25 miles 
of a park (including parks of any jurisdiction), 
while 75.9 percent of White City sits within 0.25 
miles of a trail or pathway (Figure 13). Within a 
0.25 mile, 81.7 percent access either a park or a 
trail, and 61.0 percent access both a park and a 
trail. About 18.3 percent of White City cannot 
access a park nor a trail within 0.25 miles; 
however, all of White City can access either a 
park or a trail within 0.5 miles. These access 
calculations used direct distances ; in reality, the 
built environment may force less direct routes.
LEVEL OF SERVICE - According to the National 
Recreation Association, municipalities ought to 
provide 10.0 acres of park space per 1,000 people  
(NRPA, n.d.). With 5,810 people, White City’s 
parks-to-people level of service is 2.5 acres per 
1,000 people. Including parks of any jurisdic -
tion (i.e. Dimple Dell) the level of service is 14.8 
acres per 1,000 people . 
Land Use - Page 43
Figure 13: Access to Outdoor Recreation (access to Dimple Dell Rec Center not shown)
White City General Plan - Page 44
Natural Conditions & Resources
The western half of Utah, including part of Salt 
Lake County and White City, sits in the Great 
Basin Region. The Great Basin Region can be 
variously defined: by the water system and flow 
(The Hydrographic Great Basin), the pattern of 
mountains and valleys (The Basin and Range), 
and the temperate desert climate and ecosystem 
(The Great Basin Desert) (National Park Service, 
2017). 
The Hydrographic Great Basin occupies about 
200,000 square miles, and all precipitation that 
lands in the region either sinks into the earth, 
flows into lakes (not any ocean), or evaporates 
(NPS, 2017). 
The Basin and Range  is the topographic pattern 
of north-to-south oriented mountain ranges 
adjacent to flat valleys, including the Wasatch 
Range to the east of White City (NPS, 2017). This 
topography often traps pollution and leads to 
the Salt Lake Valley’s notoriously poor air quality.
The Great Basin Desert offers a climate character-
ized by hot and dry summers, short springs and 
autumns, and snowy winters (NPS, 2017). Where 
White City sits, native trees and flowers include 
the narrowleaf cottonwoods, prairie aster, and 
firecracker penstemon (UNR & USU, 2001). 
In response to “How important are the 
following?” 61 respondents (83.6 percent 
of respondents) ranked “Protecting and 
valuing natural resources, such as the parks 
and trails” as “very important. ”  - Area Needs 
and Priorities Survey , November 2020.
Water
White City enjoys pristine water, courtesy of a 
deep underground aquifer. The aquifer supplies 
both drinking and irrigation water to White City, 
and is a critical resource for White City. The water 
is managed by the White City Water Improve -
ment District (WCWID, n.d.), the boundaries of 
which are depicted in the map above (Figure 14). 
The southernmost parcels of White City are not 
served by the WCWID (Figure 15). The south -
ernmost parcels are served by Sandy City 
Corporation Water. 
Figure 14: White City Water Improvement District

  - Page 45
Natural Hazards
◊ White City falls in an “area of minimal 
flood risk” according to FEMA. But, the part 
of Dimple Dell that bisects White City is in a 
“special flood hazard area” (FEMA, 2020). 
◊ White City is at low risk of danger from 
radon (SLCo, 2019). 
◊ The northwestern most quarter of White 
City has a low potential for liquefaction, while 
the rest has a very low potential for liquefac -
tion (SLCo, 2019).
◊ If a magnitude 7 earthquake occurs with 
an epicenter in Salt Lake City, then models 
predict White City will have “very strong” 
shaking, at 6.3 to 12.2 inches/second (SLCo, 
2019).
◊ 80 percent of White City houses are made 
of unreinforced masonry (SLCo, 2019).
◊ All White City land is considered “urban/
developed, ” placing it at low risk from 
wildfires; however, structures closest to 
Dimple Dell Park may be at higher risk if the 
park were to catch on fire (UDNR, 2020). 
Takeaway: Preventing groundwater contami -
nation, lessening the number of unreinforced 
masonry structures, and reducing air pollution 
are the three most important ways to improve 
resilience to natural resource concerns and 
hazards.
Figure from White City Water Improvement District.
Figure 15: Water District Boundaries
Land Use
White City General Plan - Page 46
Character Areas
Five character areas have been identified:
1. Residential Neighborhoods
2. 10600 South Corridor
3. Canal Trail 
4. Sego Lily Corridor
5. Southern Spur Area
Each character area includes a narrative that lays out 
a vision, specific goals, appropriate land uses, and 
implementation strategies for that unique area. This 
narrative is written from a declarative, future-per -
spective. For example, if community engagement 
reveals a need for crosswalks within the Canal Trail, 
then the narrative reads: “Safe crosswalks connect 
residents to the Canal Trail. ” Writing the narratives 
this way helps us clearly imagine what it would 
ideally be like to live, work, or travel through each 
area.
Included in these analyses are considerations 
regarding future land use. For each character area, 
appropriate future land uses are proposed, which 
are predominantly similar to current uses. Proposed 
future land uses are based upon the synthesis of 
data analysis and public input. The actual delinea -
tion of land use categories would be established at 
the time a property owner applies for a rezone (i.e. 
White City could apply for a rezone of Big Bear Park 
from its current R1 zone to a park/open space zone) 
or proposes a redevelopment (i.e. a homeowner on 
106 S decides to convert their house into a live-work 
mixed-use unit). Such decisions go before the White 
City Planning Commission. In some cases, consid -
erations are categorized as near-term (0-5 years), 
mid-term (6-15 years), or long-term (15+ years) , 
indicating when suggested land use changes may 
be appropriate.
What are character areas?
White City has several character areas: places 
of particular importance to, or displaying the 
distinct personality of, White City. Character 
areas are specific geographic areas that:
◊ have unique or special characteristics; 
◊ have potential to evolve into a unique 
area when provided specific guidance; or 
◊ require attention suitable to its unique -
ness. 
Building, landscape, and streetscape features 
combine to form character areas. Within an area, 
these features are similar; compared to another 
area, one more of these features may differ, and 
so the areas feel distinct from one another. 
Relating to the Vision Statement:
White City’s vision statement: “White City is a 
safe, affordable, close-knit, family-oriented, and 
unique community with access to amenities that 
meet the diverse needs of its residents” provides 
an overarching image for the community’s 
future. Making this vision statement come true 
requires establishing spatial context: what parts 
of White City need increased safety measures? 
What parts of White City have family-oriented 
amenities that should be preserved? The answers 
to such spatially-oriented questions become 
apparent through the lens of character areas. 
Each character area has its own narrative, which 
is more specific than the vision statement, but 
simultaneously supports it. Specific narratives 
enable implementable actions that ultimately 
help accomplish the vision statement.
Land Use - Page 47
Figure 16: Character Areas
*Please note that this map was current as of February 2021. Building footprints may have changed since that time.
White City General Plan - Page 48
CURRENT ZONE(S)- A-1, R-1-8
CURRENT LAND USES - Single family residential, 
Open space, Government/Institutional, Vacant, 
Roadways/Utilities, Other
EXAMPLE CHARACTER IMAGES
Residential Neighborhoods
LOCATION - most of White City. Highlighted in 
pink.
NARRATIVE VISION - The Residential Neighbor -
hoods area of White City is an area defined by 
low density single-family homes, predomi -
nantly local roads, and neighborhood amenities 
such as a school, park, and pool. 93.6 percent 
of residences in White City were constructed 
in the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s (USCB, 2019). 
Housing styles include bungalows, split-levels, 
bi-levels, ranches, and minimal traditional. Most 
residences in White City are owner-occupied 
(89 percent), but some are rented (11 percent) 
(USCB, 2019). Residents are a mixture of old 
and young; some people have called White City 
home for more than four decades. New owners 
make improvements to the generally older, 
modest homes, while long-term owners make 
improvements as they are financially able and/
or find assistance with the labor. 
Code enforcement and a culture of neigh -
bor-helping-neighbor help improve the 
community’s aesthetics, creating well-main -
tained yards, buildings, and streetscapes. The 
streetscapes particularly contribute to White 
City’s character. Where appropriate, there are 
“place-making” strategies, such as creative street 
calming measures, as well as walking and biking 
paths and wide, ADA-compliant sidewalks. 
Energy efficient lighting enables safe use of 
the streets at night. The culture of community 
comes across most strongly in the streets, where 
residents wave hello as they walk their dogs or 
push strollers, and in community meetings.
Residential Neighborhoods
Land Use - Page 49
“...More attention to high weeds, junk cars, junk 
under tarps in the from and side yards, and trash 
in general needs to be addressed and enforced. 
These unsightly homes bring everyone’s property 
values down, and creates an unhealthy environ -
ment” - Resident, Area Needs and Land Priorities 
Survey, November 2020.
“All roads need to be lined with side walks...We 
need to offer assistance through our community 
for elderly or disabled to help out ... ” - Resident, 
Area Needs and Land Priorities Survey , November 
2020.
“...The only thing I’d like to see would be more 
parking for people using Bear Park ” - Resident, 
Area Needs and Land Priorities Survey , November 
2020.
“White City is a simple town built on an economy 
budget...This makes it more affordable than living 
in Sandy. White City enjoys nearby amenities, 
opportunities, facilities, and transportation 
options” - Resident, Land and Character Survey , 
Summer 2020.
“White City is diverse, with a mixture of young and 
old, different races and ethnicities, and socioeco -
nomic backgrounds. It’s also a bit rough around 
the edges, in the best way” - Resident, Land and 
Character Survey, Summer 2020.
“White City is a pocket of solitude in Salt Lake 
County. It’s quiet. You can see stars at night and 
hear crickets. You know your neighbors and care 
about them. The kids are safe walking to school 
each day or playing on the playground after 
school” - Resident, Land and Character Survey , 
Summer 2020.
Photo Credits: Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD, except for Alta View 
image, from https://altaview.canyonsdistrict.org/
ASSETS  - Established affordable residential 
neighborhood, elementary school, swimming 
pool, pristine groundwater, primarily connected 
local street network, framed by major and minor 
arterial roads, proximity to amenities, an historic 
farmhouse, Big Bear Park, age diversity.
Residential Neighborhoods
White City General Plan - Page 50
Photo Credits: Google Street View.
POTENTIAL CHANGES:
This area will see few land use changes. In the 
near-term, Big Bear Park should be rezoned as 
open space to preserve its use as a park. Density 
may increase if homeowners choose to add 
IADUs to their property, as allowed by state code 
(with certain restrictions). If ten percent of home-
owners in this area add IADUs to their property, 
gross density would increase from 3.84 du/acre 
to 4.22 du/acre. Even if twenty-five percent of 
homeowners in this area add an IADU, gross 
density would increase to 4.79 du/acre (low 
density)*. IADUs are appropriate throughout this 
character area, with the exception of locations 
zoned for A-1, A-2, or R-1-21.
FUTURE USES: 
This area will continue to be a residential neigh -
borhood. Appropriate uses include:
◊ Small-scale housing (single family, IADUs)
◊ Churches and religious institutions, 
◊ Schools, 
◊ At-home businesses (home office, 
daycare/preschool)
◊ Parks and Open Spaces
◊ Micro Parks**
◊ Roadways and utilities
PROHIBITED USES:
◊ Industrial development
◊ Commercial development (strip malls, 
stand-alone stores, malls, big-box stores)
◊ Apartment complexes
◊ High-rise development of any sort
Residential Neighborhoods
What are micro parks?
Micro parks are tiny parks. They can be as simple 
as a patch of green space, or more intricate, 
with features like outdoor workout equipment, 
a couple sculptures, a water fountain, or flower 
boxes. Micro parks are often found alongside 
trails or in alleyways between publicly-owned 
buildings.
Photo Credit: Skokie Park District.
Land Use - Page 51
EXAMPLE FUTURE CHARACTER IMAGES
Example of a Free 
Little Library next to 
a sidewalk. 
Photo Credit: Renee Stretzer, 
Streets for the People.
Example of a 
walking path with 
energy efficient 
lighting. 
Photo Credit: Vecan.net.
Example of placemaking with a mini music park . 
Photo Credit: Jeremy Ruark, NewsGuard.
Example of placemaking and street calming 
with a colorful crosswalk and street art. 
Photo Credit: Jeremy Ruark, NewsGuard.
FUTURE BUILT ENVIRONMENT CONSIDERATIONS: 
Zones: R-1, Open Space
Target Floor Area Ratio:  Must comply with the 
development standards of the underlying zone.
Target Building Height: 1-2 stories (not 
including basement) and maximum 35 feet
Target Gross Density Range: 3.0 - 5.0 du/acre
Maximum Gross Density:  5.0 du/acre
Parking and Unloading: on-street, on-site-off-
street (driveways, carports, garages)
Other Design Features:
Must comply with development standards.
Encourage use of waterwise landscaping in 
yards, park strips, and medians. 
Increase lighting in pedestrian areas.
Encourage upkeep and maintenance of private 
spaces, and discourage practices that could 
introduce pollutants to White City’s ground -
water.
Add crosswalks and other safety-enhancing 
pedestrian infrastructure, especially near 
schools.
Introduce small place-making strategies where 
appropriate, such as free little libraries, colored 
crosswalks, or signs sharing White City’s history.
Preserve historic and place-making Bear Statue 
in Big Bear Park.
Monitor landscaping at intersections, to ensure 
high visibility.
Rezone Big Bear Park as park/open space.
*Find definitions of density in the glossary.
What is place-making?
Place-making is a people-centered approach 
that utilizes urban design, creativity, and a 
community’s identity to enhance public spaces. 
Place-making infrastructure is the physical items 
that support this approach.
Residential Neighborhoods
White City General Plan - Page 52
10600 South Corridor
LOCATION - properties immediately adjacent to 
10600 South. Highlighted in green.
NARRATIVE VISION - This area faces unique 
challenges and opportunities, as 10600 is an arterial 
road with high traffic volumes and bordered by 
multiple communities. Living opportunities include 
rented and owned homes, similar in style to other 
White City residences. Engineers work with residents 
to ensure that driveway-to-road transitions are as 
safe as possible. Signs in the area welcome passerby 
and residents alike into White City. Residents enjoy 
sidewalks, proper lighting, and storm drainage on 
both sides of 10600 S. Street calming measures 
encourage appropriate vehicle speeds. Residents 
access nearby commercial and institutional assets. 
While property owners along 10600 S retain their 
personal choice in residing there, over time properties 
along this area could appeal to the Planning 
Commission to become uses more appropriate 
to the existing opportunities and constraints. 
Long-term future appropriate uses include live-work 
units comprised of small-scale institutional or 
commercial mixed-uses (i.e. insurance business in 
prior home, or café on the first floor with a living 
space above). Residences may transition to these 
uses only if approved by the council and as desired 
by the property owners and when following proper 
administrative and legal channels; if any properties 
transition to institutional or commercial mixed-uses, 
they will be unobtrusive and fit in with the primarily 
residential character of White City in building and 
parking lot design and scale.
See page 111 for a detailed example of small-scale mixed 
use.
CURRENT ZONE(S)- 
R-1-8, A-2, R-1-21, R-1-21/zc,
CURRENT LAND USES - Single family residen -
tial, Open space, Government/Institutional, 
Commercial, Roadways/Utilities, Other
EXAMPLE EXISTING CHARACTER IMAGES
10600 S Corridor
Land Use - Page 53
“With the commercial entities on the south side 
of 106th, this can be a concern down the road for 
possible conversion of some property to commer -
cial. While this is not a desirable use in the near 
future, I feel eventually that may become a real 
possibility. Good planning needs to take place 
particularly along this corridor. The remainder of 
the areas within the boundary should remain resi -
dential” - Resident, Area Needs and Land Priorities 
Survey, November 2020.
“I know that commercial has been thrown around 
for this area, and I’m not completely opposed to 
it as long as it is well-planned and not a series of 
hap-hazard strip malls that are frequently vacant” 
- Resident, Area Needs and Land Priorities Survey , 
November 2020.
“I like it how it is and would not enjoy it changing 
to a non residential area. Street lamps would be 
nice” - Resident, Area Needs and Land Priorities 
Survey, November 2020.
“Rezoning to multi family homes and businesses ” 
- Resident, Area Needs and Land Priorities Survey,  
November 2020.
“The only improvement I would like to see happen 
is people maintaining their property a little better ” 
- Resident, Area Needs and Land Priorities Survey,  
November 2020.
EXAMPLE FUTURE CHARACTER IMAGES
Photo Credits: Google Street View.
ASSETS - Affordable residences, religious insti -
tutions, pristine groundwater, direct access to 
a minor arterial road, proximity to amenities, 
viewshed of Wasatch mountains.
Thinking about the future, 51 percent of respon-
dents said mixed-use would be appropriate 
somewhere (38 percent chose near major inter -
sections; 28 percent chose near major roads). 
49 percent of respondents said no mixed-use 
anywhere - Land and Character Survey , Summer 
2020.
10600 S Corridor
*Please note that this map was current as of 
February 2021. Building footprints may have 
changed since that time.
White City General Plan - Page 54
POTENTIAL CHANGES: 
In the near future, residential and accessory uses 
such as churches, remain the primary use of this 
area. Limited changes may include infrastructure 
upgrades, such as: street calming measures, high 
visibility crosswalks, landscaping, welcome signs, 
and bike and pedestrian infrastructure. As UDOT and 
Sandy have jurisdiction over parts of 106 S, collabo -
ration is needed to make the greater corridor work 
for all effected communities. Changes to some parts 
of 106 S are outside of White City control.
In the long-term future, small-scale mixed uses (resi -
dential plus commercial or institutional) following 
strict guidelines could be introduced (per property 
owner’s desire and following proper administrative 
and legal channels). Specifically, “one or two unit - 
above commercial/institutional” spaces would be 
appropriate. This built type mirrors the scale (height, 
width) and appearance of single-family residences 
(see Boulder Case Study). It has several benefits: uses 
such as cafes, ice cream parlors, or insurance offices 
increase the community’s revenue and provide 
services. With this built type, business owners live 
affordably above their business. Institutional uses 
(library or a satellite university study space) could 
also be ground-floor uses. With this setup, business 
owners would not commute or contribute to conges-
tion. Together with walkability improvements, this 
area would attract foot traffic from residential areas. 
Uses such as cafes would provide places for positive 
community interaction and desired amenities.
If 1/4 of properties become two units above commer-
cial, density becomes 4.96 du/acre (low density). 
Even if all properties did so, density remains under 
eight at 7.93 du/acre (low to medium density). 
Read about Economic Opportunities (pg. 98-103, 108-113) to 
learn more about benefits and public feedback related to small-
scale mixed use. 
FUTURE USES: 
◊ Small-scale residential development 
(single family, IADUs - except in restricted 
zones)
◊ Churches and religious institutions
◊ At-home businesses (home office, 
daycare/preschool)
◊ Small-scale live-work mixed-use: 
◊ one or two residential units above 
a family-friendly, quiet business 
or institutional use (i.e. library, 
community art center, satellite 
university office/study space)
◊ structures are encouraged to look 
like single family houses
◊ Roadways and utilities
PROHIBITED USES: 
◊ Industrial development
◊ Strip mall or big box commercial uses
◊ Noisy, disruptive, or heavily polluting 
commercial uses
◊ Apartment complexes
◊ High rise development of any sort
FUTURE BUILT ENVIRONMENT CONSIDERATIONS: 
Future  developments are subject to the 
development standards of the underlying 
zone.
Zones: 
 Near-term: R-1 (Residential Single Family)
 Long-term: R-1 & MU-A (Mixed Use A: one or  
 two unit above commercial/institutional).
10600 S Corridor
Land Use - Page 55
Case Study: 
Outer Broadway, Boulder, CO 
Broadway, a street running through the center 
of Boulder, Colorado, transitions through various 
kinds of development. Broadway, as it runs 
through a residential area, exemplifies what the 
10600 S Corridor could be with a re-imagined 
right-of-way. It has wide sidewalks separated 
from the road, making walking safer. The area 
between the sidewalk and the road is well-land -
scaped, which serves to make walking in the 
area more enjoyable as well as to calm traffic 
and to dampen automobile noise. Bus stops 
along Broadway have weather guards, lighting, 
and seating. Intersections have high visibility 
crosswalks. Development along Broadway has 
retained its residential character: a variety of 
beautiful historical houses line the street. Some 
houses have remained residences, while others 
have been converted into small, local businesses, 
which passerby notice only from the small signs.  
Photo credits: Google Street View.
Target Building Height: 1-2 stories (not 
including basement) and maximum 30 feet 
Target Gross Density Range: 3.75 - 5.0 du/acre
Maximum Gross Density:  5.0 du/acre
Parking and Unloading: for R1: on-site-off-
street parking (driveway, carport, garage); for 
Mixed-Use: on-site-off-street parking and 1) 
small side lots with landscaping between street 
facing side and the street, or 2) small back lot
Other Design Features:
Public right-of-way is beautified wherever 
appropriate with waterwise landscaping. Enclo -
sure-enhancing landscaping is encouraged and 
does not inhibit visibility of vehicles and pedes -
trians to each other at intersections. Landscaping 
choices have a positive impact on water quality 
and do not harm White City’s groundwater.
Add crosswalks, lighting, and other safety-en -
hancing pedestrian infrastructure. Separate 
sidewalks from the road. Include traffic calming 
measures.
Introduce small place-making strategies where 
appropriate, such as “Welcome to White City” 
signs or creatively colored crosswalks. 
Any houses that transition to mixed uses retain 
their residential appearance. Any rebuilds 
resemble houses and are oriented toward the 
street. 
Signs for businesses are unobtrusive. 
Ground floors on mixed-use rebuilds aim for at 
least 30% transparency. Infrastructure changes 
and new rebuilds are at human-scale. See 
glossary for explanation.
10600 S Corridor
White City General Plan - Page 56
Canal Trail
LOCATION - properties adjacent to the Canal 
Trail. Highlighted in blue .
NARRATIVE VISION - The Canal Trail encompasses 
a residential neighborhood with unique access 
to a multi-use trail. Residences along the trail 
reflect the character of White City residences: 
homes are small to moderate sizes, in bungalow 
or traditional minimal styles, and built in the 
mid-1900s. While other properties have the 
public eye on their front yards only, residences 
within the Canal Trail are exposed to the public 
view on all sides. Fences of standard look give 
residences the privacy they desire. 
Households here enjoy immediate access to 
outdoor recreation and an active transportation 
corridor. Residents can use the trail to exercise, 
have a safe place to walk separated from vehicle 
traffic, or commute. Activity zones along the trail 
delineate the space in which cyclists and pedes -
trians should move. Not only is the Canal Trail 
well-maintained, with adequate street lighting, 
doggie bag dispensers, garbage cans, abatement 
of goatheads and other weeds, and proper 
signage, but it is also a source of community 
pride and enjoyment. Signs convey the history 
of White City. Waterwise landscaping lines the 
trail, beautifying it, and there are several seating 
opportunities. Physical access to the trail is well-
thought-out, ensuring residents and visitors can 
safely get on and use the trail, such as by clear 
entrances and crosswalks at trail/road intersec -
tions.
CURRENT ZONE(S)- R-1-8
CURRENT LAND USES - Single family residential, 
Open space, Government/Institutional, Vacant, 
Roadways/Utilities
EXAMPLE CHARACTER IMAGES
Photo Credit: Salt Lake County
Canal Trail
Land Use - Page 57
“The canal trail is a great addition to our 
community. I would like to see some type of land -
scaping or just general maintenance done, such 
as weed control, controlling people who are 
throwing their cut tree branches over their fence 
to get them out of their yards, etc. I also would like 
to know if the trail will be maintained in the winter 
so people can still use it. ”  - Resident, Area Needs 
and Land Priorities Survey , November 2020.
“The cross walk passing Larkspur Drive is extremely 
dangerous. Drivers come speeding down the road 
and the path crosses at a slight hill...Maybe put 
in speed bumps in this area to slow drivers down. 
I love the new addition of the trail. Good work to 
everyone involved!”  - Resident, Area Needs and 
Land Priorities Survey , November 2020.
“Lighting along the trail, that is directional and on 
a motion sensor, with the exception of the bridge, 
that should have lighting on at night. Keeping 
the weeds down and the goats heads under 
control will be a good idea. The trail is fantastic”  - 
Resident, Area Needs and Land Priorities Survey , 
November 2020.
“...Some of the homes do have nicer front yards, 
but their back yards leave the impression that 
this is a “run-down” community. Not everyone 
has time to focus on backyard landscaping, and a 
fence would help with community image. PLEASE 
provide more garbage cans and dog-baggie 
stations...Also, the goat heads have wrought 
havoc on bike tires! They need to really be pulled, 
not sprayed so they just go to seed!”  - Resident, 
Area Needs and Land Priorities Survey,  November 
2020.
Photo Credit: Google Street View
ASSETS - Established affordable residential 
neighborhood, direct access to multi-use paved 
trail, pristine groundwater, White City Improve -
ment District office, proximity to amenities.
Photo Credit: Google Street View
Photo Credit: SandyJournal.com
Canal Trail
*Please note 
that this map 
was current as of 
February 2021. 
Building footprints 
may have changed 
since that time.
White City General Plan - Page 58
POTENTIAL CHANGES:
This area will see few land use changes. Density 
may increase if homeowners choose to add 
IADUs to their property. If ten percent of home -
owners here add IADUs, gross density would 
increase from 3.75 du/acre to 3.99 du/acre (low 
density). If 25 percent of homeowners did so, 
gross density would increase to 4.68 du/acre 
(low density).
FUTURE USES: 
This area will continue to be a residential neigh -
borhood. Appropriate uses include:
◊ Small-scale housing (single family, 
Accessory Dwelling Units (IADUs))
◊ Churches and religious institutions
◊ Small-scale government and institutional 
uses (WCWID, library)
◊ Schools, 
◊ At-home businesses (home office, 
daycare/preschool)
◊ Parks and Open Spaces, Micro Parks
◊ Roadways and utilities
PROHIBITED USES:
◊ Industrial development
◊ Commercial development (strip malls, 
stand-alone stores, malls, big-box stores)
◊ Apartment complexes
◊ High-rise development of any sort
Example of a high visibility crosswalk.
Photo Credit: Bay Village Police Department Facebook
Photo Credit: Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD
Image from Google Street View.
EXAMPLE FUTURE CHARACTER IMAGES
Example of interpretive, educational, and 
wayfinding signs. 
Photo Credit: Landmark Design
Canal Trail
Land Use - Page 59
Best Practices: Tidbits from the 
Rails-to-Trails Conservancy
The Rails-to-Trails Conservancy “build[s] a 
nation connected by trails. [They] re-imagine 
public spaces to create safe ways for everyone 
to walk, bike and be active outdoors” (Rails-to-
Trails Conservancy, n.d.). With over 24,000 miles 
of trails nationwide, they have a plethora of 
lessons-learned and best practices for trails:
◊ Art along a trail can showcase a commu -
nity’s identity, history, and culture. Example: 
Kansas City’s Riverfront Heritage Trail.
◊ To help users with wayfinding, have inter -
pretive signs at trailheads; use mile markers 
throughout.
◊ Centerline striping can increase safety in 
high use sections of trails.
◊ Partner with local schools, non-profits, 
businesses, or other organizations to 
sponsor trail signage. Example: Westline, 
Pennsylvania’s Kinzua Valley Trail.
FUTURE BUILT ENVIRONMENT CONSIDERATIONS: 
Future  developments are subject to the 
development standards of the underlying 
zone.
Zones: R-1
Target Floor Area Ratio:  Must comply with the 
development standards of the underlying zone.
Target Building Height: 1-2 stories (not 
including basement) and maximum 30 feet
Target Gross Density Range: 3.0 - 5.0 du/acre
Maximum Gross Density:  5.0 du/acre
Parking and Unloading: on-street, on-site-off-
street (driveways, carports, garages)
Other Design Features:
Encourage use of waterwise landscaping in 
yards, park strips, medians., and along the canal 
trail. Maintain canal trail landscaping. Monitor 
landscaping at intersections, to ensure visibility 
for pedestrians and vehicles remains high.
Increase lighting, especially along the canal trail.
Encourage upkeep and maintenance of private 
spaces, and discourage practices that could 
introduce pollutants to White City’s ground -
water. 
Add crosswalks and other safety-enhancing 
pedestrian infrastructure, especially at canal 
trail access points.
Introduce small place-making strategies where 
appropriate, such as free little libraries or 
creatively colored crosswalks. Consider signs 
sharing White City’s history along the canal trail, 
and partner with local organizations to sponsor 
them.
 Photo Credit: Chugach Mountain Bike Riders
Canal Trail
White City General Plan - Page 60
Sego Lily Corridor
LOCATION - properties adjacent to Sego Lily 
drive. Highlighted in purple.
NARRATIVE VISION - While generally similar to 
the character of most of White City’s residential 
areas, the Sego Lily roadway makes this corri -
dor’s character unique from other areas. One of 
White City’s busiest roads, Sego Lily transects 
the middle of White City and links to commercial 
and institutional areas on either side, including 
White City’s only commercially zoned parcel. 
Without infringing upon the properties adjacent 
to the road, the existing Sego Lily right of way 
has been re-imagined (via public outreach 
through the Sego Lily Corridor Study), trans -
forming the road from vehicles-only to vehicles 
plus an active transportation corridor. Residents 
get immediate access to outdoor recreation, 
and other pedestrians and cyclists enjoy recre -
ating on the path lining the road. Streetlights 
and marked crossings allow safe enjoyment 
of the active transportation corridor as well 
as safe access to adjacent schools for various 
user groups. Traffic calming measures, such 
as creative landscaping, help manage speeds 
while improving the aesthetics of the area. The 
landscaping around Sego Lily helps quiet traffic 
sounds for adjacent residences.
CURRENT ZONE(S)- R-1-8, C-2
CURRENT LAND USES - Single family residential, 
Open space, Commercial, Roadways/Utilities
EXAMPLE EXISTING CHARACTER IMAGES
Sego Lily Corridor
Land Use - Page 61
“More street lighting is needed on the major artery. 
Also sidewalks need to be all the way through the 
area, not just from 13th to 10th. Also they need 
to be on both sides of the street, not the plan that 
showed a combo bike path on one side. Speed is 
still an issue on the street, any plan to increase 
the speed limit is not a good idea. They already 
go 10mph over the speed limit” - Resident, Area 
Needs and Land Priorities Survey , November 
2020.
“Needs curb, gutter, sidewalks where missing. 
Needs proper patrol and landscaping to reduce 
speed and minimize dangerous driving habits”  - 
Resident, Area Needs and Land Priorities Survey , 
November 2020.
“Have people clean up their ugly yards and old 
cars. Better lighting all along Sego Lily. Have 
something out for people that think they can go 
40 in a 25 mile zone ” - Resident, Area Needs and 
Land Priorities Survey , November 2020.
“We need to add sidewalks along Sego Lily Drive, 
there currently are none. This would make it easier 
for students to walk to and from schools safely, 
also make it safer for people to walk up and down 
the street as well ” - Resident, Area Needs and 
Land Priorities Survey , November 2020.
“I would like to see sidewalks running the full 
length.” - Resident, Area Needs and Land Priori -
ties Survey, November 2020.
ASSETS - Established affordable residential 
neighborhood, direct access to a major collector 
road, road traffic load much lower than road 
capacity, viewshed of Wasatch mountains, 
pristine groundwater, proximity to amenities.
Photo Credits: Google Street View
Sego Lily Corridor
*Please note that this map was current as of 
February 2021. Building footprints may have 
changed since that time.
White City General Plan - Page 62
EXAMPLE FUTURE CHARACTER IMAGES
Example of a creative crosswalk, street calming, 
place-making, and a separated-from-traffic 
sidewalk. 
Photo Credit: Sean Sullivan, 2020, Natick
Example of street calming, a high visibility 
crosswalk, and streetscape beautification.
Photo Credit: Sustainable Transport, 2003
Example of a separated-from-traffic sidewalk 
with amenities (waste can, lights) and a land -
scaped, traffic-calming median.
Photo Credit: Google Street View
POTENTIAL CHANGES:
This area will see few land use changes. Density 
may increase if homeowners add IADUs. If ten 
percent of homeowners here got approval to 
add an IADU to their property, gross density 
would increase from 5.20 du/acre to 5.71 du/
acre; at 25 percent, this increases to 6.50 du/acre 
(low density).
FUTURE USES: 
This area will continue to be a residential neigh -
borhood. Appropriate uses include:
◊ Small-scale housing (single family, IADUs)
◊ Churches and religious institutions
◊ Schools
◊ At-home businesses (home office, 
daycare/preschool)
◊ Parks and Open Spaces, Micro Parks
◊ Roadways and utilities
The existing commercial property at 10220 
S 1300 E can remain commercial, with uses 
compatible to its neighborhood environment 
and proximity to a school.
PROHIBITED USES:
◊ Industrial development
◊ Commercial development (strip malls, 
stand-alone stores, malls, big-box stores) 
EXCEPT the one existing commercial 
property
◊ Apartment complexes
◊ High-rise development of any sort
Sego Lily Corridor
Land Use - Page 63
Case Study: Grand Rapids, MI and 
Residential Complete Streets
FUTURE BUILT ENVIRONMENT CONSIDERATIONS: 
Future  developments are subject to the 
development standards of the underlying 
zone.
Zones: R-1, C-2 (the one existing property)
Target Floor Area Ratio:  Must comply with the 
development standards of the underlying zone.
Target Building Height: 1-2 stories (not 
including basement) and maximum 30 feet
Target Gross Density Range: 4.5 - 6.0 du/acre
Maximum Gross Density:  6.0 du/acre
Parking and Unloading: on-street, on-site-off-
street (driveways, carports, garages)
Other Design Features:
Encourage use of waterwise landscaping in 
yards, park strips, and medians. Monitor land -
scaping at intersections, to ensure visibility for 
pedestrians and vehicles remains uninhibited. 
Increase lighting in pedestrian areas.
Encourage upkeep and maintenance of private 
spaces, and discourage practices that could 
introduce pollutants to White City’s ground -
water.
Add crosswalks and other safety-enhancing 
pedestrian infrastructure, especially near 
schools. Separate sidewalks from the road. 
Include traffic calming measures.
Introduce small place-making strategies where 
appropriate, such as free little libraries or 
creatively colored crosswalks.
When re-imagining the public-right-of-way, 
prioritize pedestrian mobility and safety so that 
Grand Rapids, 
Michigan shows how 
a Complete Streets 
approach is not 
one-size-fits-all and 
is helpful in residen -
tial settings too (GR, 
M, 2012). The images 
from Grand Rapid’s 
Complete Streets 
plan exemplify how 
the Complete Streets 
approach makes 
roads safer and more 
accessible. 
In the images with a 
“yes, ” sidewalks are 
wide and separated 
from traffic, and 
landscaping efforts 
provide a sense of 
enclosure to the 
street that calms 
traffic. In the images 
with a “no, ” there is 
no safe space for 
pedestrians and no 
traffic calming. The 
roads are only usable 
for vehicles. Notice 
that the three “yes” 
images have streets 
of different widths, 
lane amounts, and 
striping: the complete 
streets approach 
is adaptable to the 
needs of the area.
Photo Credits: Grand Rapids 
Complete Streets, 2012.
Sego Lily Corridor
White City General Plan - Page 64
Southern Spur Area
LOCATION - area south of 10600 S. Highlighted in 
light blue.
NARRATIVE VISION - This area is very distinct from 
other parts of White City and from adjacent 
areas of Sandy. It is predominantly agricultural. 
The farm culture of this area connects White 
City to the historic settlement of the Salt Lake 
Valley. Many households raise and ride horses, 
as they easily access the horseback riding trails 
at Dimple Dell Park. Houses and farmhouses 
sit on larger lots (median lot size is a half-acre, 
including the houses in the R1 and A2 zones), 
contributing to an area of lower density than the 
rest of White City (1.38 dwelling units per acre 
compared to 3.84 dwelling units per acre for the 
Residential Neighborhoods Area). Home occu -
pations as well as strictly agricultural-related 
businesses, such as riding stables, farm-to-table 
markets, or produce stands, provide economic 
opportunities that incentivize agricultural uses 
to persist in this area.
The Southern Spur Area is a quiet haven amidst 
growing development. The area is close to two 
minor arterial roads, 10600 S and 1300 E, and the 
properties along 1300 E closest to the Southern 
Spur Area have become commercial. Property 
owners in the Southern Spur area retain their 
personal choice in residing there and pursuing 
agricultural-based lifestyles. However, in the 
long-term future (15+ years), properties along 
this area could appeal to the Planning Commis -
sion to become other uses if the area ceases 
to be characterized by agricultural roots. If this 
happens, then it may be an appropriate place 
CURRENT ZONE(S)- A-2, R-1-21, R-1-21/zc
CURRENT LAND USES - Single family residential, 
Commercial, Vacant, Roadways/Utilities, Other
EXAMPLE CHARACTER IMAGES
Photo credits: Google Street View
Southern Spur Area
Land Use - Page 65
“This area is great...I like living close to horse 
property and farms”  - Resident, Area Needs and 
Land Priorities Survey , November 2020.
“Keep it residential unless it more than 60% of 
the space is not used for horses. Then we should 
consider options of semi condensed housing and 
commercial” - Resident, Area Needs and Land 
Priorities Survey , November 2020.
“Keeping this area as an agricultural/horse 
property is essential. We are so fortunate to have 
this in the area adjacent to the horse trails in 
Dimple Dell ” - Resident, Area Needs and Land 
Priorities Survey , November 2020.
“Provide incentives for people to not develop/ 
subdivide there horse properties. Such as land 
trusts or tax benefits”  - Resident, Area Needs and 
Land Priorities Survey , November 2020.
“I am not directly involved in anything utilizing 
that area. I think it is important to listen to the 
voices of those who do. I know having an area for 
horse related husbandry is important to many. 
These type of spaces are becoming rare as urban 
sprawl continues, and I believe that area is worth 
preserving”  - Resident, Area Needs and Land 
Priorities Survey , November 2020.
to consider small-scale mixed uses, including 
live-work places. Residences may transition to 
such uses only as desired by the property owners 
and when following proper administrative and 
legal channels. But, as long as property owners 
here maintain agricultural lifestyles, agricul -
tural uses should be preserved.
ASSETS - Agricultural area, ability to raise/ride 
horses, large lots, affordable residences, access 
to a minor arterial road, proximity to amenities, 
viewshed of Wasatch Mountains.
Photo credits: Greg Shelton
Southern Spur Area
*Please note that this map was current as of 
February 2021. Building footprints may have 
changed since that time.
White City General Plan - Page 66
POTENTIAL CHANGES:
This area will see few land use changes in the 
near-term future. 
FUTURE USES: 
In the near-term future, this area will continue 
to be a residential, agricultural neighborhood. 
Appropriate uses include:
◊ Small-scale housing (single family)
◊ Family-scale agricultural uses (animal 
raising and husbandry, and row, crop, tree, 
and nursery cultivation)
◊ Agricultural-support businesses accessory 
to the primary agricultural use (riding 
stables, produce stands)
◊ At-home businesses (home office, 
daycare/preschool)
◊ Parks and Open Spaces
◊ Micro Parks
◊ Roadways and utilities
PROHIBITED USES:
◊ Industrial development
◊ Commercial development (strip malls, 
stand-alone stores, malls, big-box stores)
◊ Apartment complexes
◊ High-rise development of any sort
◊ Industrial agricultural uses (processing 
plants, dairy farms)
Photo Credits: Greg Shelton
Southern Spur Area
Land Use - Page 67
FUTURE BUILT ENVIRONMENT CONSIDERATIONS: 
Future  developments are subject to the 
development standards of the underlying 
zone.
Zones: A-2, R-1-21 (same as existing zones)
Target Floor Area Ratio:  Must comply with the 
development standards of the underlying zone.
Target Building Height: 1-2 stories (not 
including basement) and maximum 35 feet
Target Gross Density Range: 1.0 - 2.0 du/acre
Maximum Gross Density:  2.0 du/acre
Parking and Unloading: on-street, on-site-off-
street (driveways, carports, garages)
Other Design Features:
Encourage use of waterwise landscaping in 
yards, park strips, and medians. 
Increase lighting in pedestrian areas.
Encourage upkeep and maintenance of private 
spaces, and discourage practices that could 
introduce pollutants to White City’s ground -
water.
Consider safety of horseback riders traveling 
from this area to the Dimple Dell trails in infra -
structure choices; for example, by working to 
implement a mid-block crossing over 10600 
South.
Photo Credits: Greg Shelton
RIDING IN NEARBY DIMPLE DELL REGIONAL PARK
Southern Spur Area
White City General Plan - Page 68
Future Land Use
As shown through the public feedback and 
data analysis previously presented in this 
chapter, White City is a primarily residential 
community with preference toward preserving 
the existing character, future transportation 
and infrastructure improvements, and planning 
and decision-making that increases access to 
amenities. The character area analysis revealed 
the qualities that make White City unique, 
the location of community amenities, and the 
opportunities for specific areas to evolve to 
better support White City’s needs and desires.
From this process, the Future Land Use Map 
emerges (Figure 17). It proposes few changes to 
the existing land use map; the vast majority of 
White City land remains the same (low density 
residential zones). The commercial property 
remains commercial. The agricultural properties 
in the south remain agricultural. 
Adjustments include the following: first, Big Bear 
Park gets rezoned from low density residential 
to an open space zone, so there is no question of 
its desired use. Second, the agricultural proper -
ties in the very north of White City are proposed 
to change from agricultural to low density resi -
dential, so that the zone and the on-the-ground 
use of the properties are consistent. 
Why is there a “transitional” zone? Why consider Why is there a “transitional” zone? Why consider 
allowing any small-scale, live-work mixed-use?allowing any small-scale, live-work mixed-use?
Land use changes are a sensitive topic. Feedback 
reflected this sensitivity, conveying various 
stances on what land uses should be present 
in the community. Strong voices emerged as 
proponents for no changes ever, and other 
strong voices emerged as desiring well-thought 
out changes to specific parts of White City. 
There was also key agreement:  most people 
envision a future White City that closely resembles 
the character of today’s White City and believe 
in supporting the rights of individual property 
holders. The future land use map supports this 
agreement, focusing on preservation while 
providing flexibility consistent with community 
needs.
Completing community improvements that 
enhance walkability, safety, natural resource 
protection, and beautification efforts require 
funds. Utah municipalities get funds from sales 
tax revenues and class B and C roads. New class 
B and C roads are unlikely. That leaves increasing 
sales tax revenues as the way to bring in funds 
needed for improvements. Businesses are 
necessary for sales tax revenues, which is why 
limiting land uses to only residential can hinder 
the community’s ability to adapt to regional or 
naturally-induced changes and cripple White 
City economically in the long term. Addition -
ally, one of White City’s top goals is improving 
walkability. Improving walkability requires 
destinations: places worth walking to that 
make a walk purposeful and interesting (Speck, 
2013). Such places could include parks, small 
businesses, or libraries. Thus, the community 
benefits from increasing the mix of uses.
  - Page 69
Figure 17: White City Future Land Use Map
Land Use

White City General Plan - Page 70
KEY RECOMMENDATIONS:
Focus on area-specific, small-scale 
infrastructure improvements that 
incorporate place-making; these will 
enhance the day-to-day experiences 
of residents on their land and in public 
spaces. Update land use codes to be 
tailored to White City’s specific wants 
and needs.
LAND USE GOALS:
LU1: Ensure that effective land use 
planning is balanced with preserving 
the freedom and rights of individual 
landowners.
LU2: Maintain and promote White 
City’s neighborhood-scale housing 
character (primarily detached resi -
dences) while also promoting a quality 
of life that attracts and sustains new 
families and the housing needs of the 
Salt Lake Valley. 
LU3: Promote a sense of pride and 
identity in the community through 
maintaining and  enhancing place-
making infrastructure. 
LU4: Establish maintenance standards 
that continue to make White City a 
distinctly scenic, fun and appealing 
place to live and visit. 
LU5: Enhance recreational amenities 
and access to public parks and open 
spaces.
LU6: All land use decisions include 
efforts to maintain or improve air and 
water quality.
LAND USE TAKEAWAYS:
◊ White City should maintain its resi-
dential, neighborhood feel, explore 
options to improve community 
aesthetics, protect property rights, 
and protect outdoor amenities.
◊ Exploring small-scale commer -
cial development is viewed both 
negatively and positively; it appears 
under “threat” and “avoid, ” yet the 
lack of commercial tax base is a 
“weakness” and annexing businesses 
is an “achieve”: finding a balance is 
important.
◊ It is important to communicate to 
Salt Lake County the value of Dimple 
Dell Park to White City.
◊ Preventing groundwater contam -
ination, lessening the number of 
unreinforced masonry structures, and 
reducing air pollution are the three 
most important ways to improve resil -
ience to natural resource concerns 
and hazards.
  - Page 71
◊ Zoning ordinances need to 
be updated and tailored to White 
City’s voiced needs and desires 
via a thorough public process, 
including a working group with 
planning staff, community repre -
sentatives, residents, and other staff 
as needed. Zones not desired for 
White City should be removed from 
the ordinance, and remaining zones 
should take into account current and 
future needs and opportunities.
◊ White City has five distinct 
character areas. Each character area 
has a unique vision, with specific 
future built environment consider -
ations that should guide land use 
decisions in those areas.
◊ Residential Neighborhoods: 
For this area to be a family-friendly, 
amenity-rich residential community, 
infrastructure and transportation 
improvements are needed. Big Bear 
Park should be rezoned as open 
space in order to preserve its use and 
prevent future development.
◊ 10600 South Corridor: This is a 
transitional area. Property owners 
maintain the right to keep their prop -
erties as residences, while the option 
to consider small-scale mixed use is 
allowed as well.
◊ Canal Trail: Trail and transpor -
tation improvements  enhance the 
aesthetics and functioning of this 
area while preserving residential 
character.
◊ Sego Lily Corridor: Transporta -
tion improvement re-imagine this 
area into a beautiful corridor that 
supports the safe travel of pedes -
trians and cyclists as well as vehicles.
◊ Southern Spur Area: Ordinances 
continue to support agricultural life -
styles. Transportation enhancements 
better connect this area to the rest of 
White City and Dimple Dell Regional 
Park.
Land Use
White City General Plan  - Page 72
CHAPTER FIVE:
TRANSPORTATION & MOBILITY
KEY RECOMMENDATION: 
Work toward implementing street -
scape improvements that increase 
the safety of all modes of travel, the 
aesthetics of the public right-of-ways, 
and the walkability of White City.
Goals:
◊ T1: Encourage good access to and smooth, 
safe transitions between key locations 
within and outside of White City.
◊ T2: Support transportation areas 
becoming more aesthetically pleasing, envi -
ronmentally friendly, culturally interesting, 
and health-conscious.
◊ T3: Achieve well-maintained transporta -
tion infrastructure.
◊ T4: Support adequate and safe parking.
◊ T5: Increase pedestrian and bicyclist 
access, safety, and comfort.
Photo Credit: Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD
 - Page 73
The Importance of  
Transportation and Mobility
Driving to the grocery store, riding a UTA bus 
to work, hailing an Uber from the airport, or 
walking the dog – transportation is a part of 
people’s daily lives. As these examples convey, 
transportation involves both mobility – the 
ability to travel between places – and accessi -
bility – the ability to reach valuable destinations 
within a reasonable amount of time. Both 
mobility and accessibility enable the expression 
of personal freedom. We can choose where we 
go and how to get there. For White City, trans -
portation planning is important to uphold a safe, 
accessible, and enjoyable transportation system 
that enables residents to meet their needs in the 
ways that work for them.
What does the State Code say 
about transportation and 
mobility?
The State of Utah requires communities to plan 
for transportation. In Utah State Code Section 
10-9a-403, the State mandates that General 
Plans include a “transportation and traffic circu -
lation element” (LUDMA, 2020). This element 
must contain the location of different road 
types as well as public and active transportation 
infrastructure, and it must connect to demo -
graphic projections and the land use element. 
Communities without a major transit invest -
ment corridor – such as White City – must plan 
for improved linkages among housing, employ -
ment, education, recreation, and commerce.
Photo Credit: Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD
 Photo Credit: Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD
Transportation
White City General Plan - Page 74
Linking local and regional efforts
Transportation planning cannot occur in 
isolation. Think about streets: not only do they 
often cross political boundaries, neighborhood 
districts, and various land uses, but they also 
allow people to move across various bound -
aries. When planning for a road that stretches 
40 miles and crosses seven municipalities, a 
regional perspective to transportation makes 
sense. At the same time, the perspective of 
each of those seven municipalities is necessary 
for the successful implementation of goals and 
objectives across scales.  
Alignment ensures different entities work 
toward compatible goals – what one entity does 
can support the efforts of another entity, and 
vice-versa. Alignment also opens up opportu -
nities for collaboration, from cross-jurisdictional 
project implementation to funding acquisition 
and more.
Roles and Responsibilities
Broad thinking strengthens transportation 
planning. Several entities and agencies’ trans -
portation values and plans are important for 
White City’s local efforts. The MSD provides 
planning and development services for White 
City, including this General Plan and its Transpor-
tation Chapter. The MSD will continue working 
with White City to implement transportation 
projects and programs identified in this chapter. 
Additionally, the MSD works with various entities 
to meet White City’s transportation needs 
and plan for accomplishing transportation 
outcomes. These include the Utah Department 
of Transportation, the Utah Transit Authority, 
Salt Lake County, and Sandy City.
UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (UDOT)
UDOT “aim[s] to Keep Utah Moving. That 
includes everything from improving our roads 
and traffic lights to providing alternate means of 
getting from A to B, like bike lanes and public 
transit. We want to make sure that whatever is 
being moved, freight and cargo or the people in 
a vehicle, arrives safe and promptly. It isn’t easy, 
but Keeping Utah Moving is what keeps UDOT 
going” (UDOT, n.d. B). White City works with 
UDOT regarding any non-local roads within and 
adjacent to White City’s boundaries, such as 700 
E and 10600 S. Additionally, UDOT has an Active 
Transportation Division that can support White 
City’s initiatives regarding walking and biking. 
Receiving state funding for transportation 
projects in White City is dependent upon White 
City meeting Senate Bill 34 requirements about 
planning for Moderate-Income Housing.

Transportation  - Page 75
UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY (UTA)
UTA “provides integrated mobility solutions to 
service life’s connections, improve public health 
and enhance quality of life”; they “provide an 
integrated system of innovative, accessible and 
efficient public transportation services that 
increase access to opportunities and contribute 
to a healthy environment for the people of 
the Wasatch region” (UTA, n.d. A). White City 
will coordinate with UTA about public transit. 
Communicating feedback about route pathways, 
infrastructure conditions, and frequency of stops 
can be useful for UTA and help public transpor -
tation better meet White City’s needs.
WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL COUNCIL (WFRC)
The WFRC is the Metropolitan Planning Orga -
nization (MPO) that covers Box Elder, Davis, 
Morgan, Salt Lake, Tooele, and Weber counties. 
The responsibilities of the WFRC include regional 
transportation planning. White City works 
with the WFRC on regional initiatives involving 
various numbers of municipalities, from two or 
three to the entire WFRC. WFRC also provides 
funding for various types of transportation 
projects, for which White City is eligible.
SALT LAKE COUNTY (SLCO)
Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering 
Department provides engineering services to 
the MSD, including White City. Public Works Engi-
neering helps to build and maintain roadways 
and sidewalks, administer encroachment, exca -
vation and special event permits, and enforce 
stormwater (MS4) management compliance 
(SLCo, n.d. B).
SANDY CITY
As White City is entirely bounded by Sandy, 
working with Sandy on transportation projects, 
opportunities, and challenges is critical for 
success. Understanding Sandy’s vision and goals 
regarding transportation is likewise important. 
Currently, Sandy’s transportation decisions are 
guided by their 2009 Master Transportation 
Plan. Sandy City also looks to their Parks, Recre -
ation, and Trails Master Plan and their Proposed 
Trail Changes to inform active transporta -
tion projects. Additionally, Sandy and Draper 
started a joint Active Transportation Plan, which 
includes potential trails and routes that would 
link through White City or touch its borders. 
Takeaway: High quality transportation options 
are necessary for White City, as the residents 
leave municipal borders for groceries, health 
care, and more. Moving forward, coordinating 
and cooperating with other agencies and 
entities will improve transportation conditions 
within White City as well as between White City 
and nearby communities.
White City General Plan - Page 76
What does the community say 
about transportation?
MEETINGS - Five GPSC meetings focused on 
transportation (December 2019 - July 2020). Addi-
tionally, the Transportation Values Workshop 
provided an opportunity for White City leaders 
and members of the public to discuss the link 
between White City’s transportation needs and 
the overarching, regional transportation system. 
Walkability was often discussed.
SURVEYS -  White City residents expressed their 
thoughts on transportation via the Transpor-
tation and Land Use Survey . In total, 74 unique 
responses on transportation were collected 
in this survey. However, comments offered in 
the two land use surveys also provided insight 
into transportation preferences in White City. 
Together, the surveys showed a desire to 
improve walkability, increase safety, and add 
street lighting, sidewalks, and crosswalks. 
VISION STATEMENT -  White City envisions itself as 
safe and family-friendly with access to amenities, 
indicating that transportation should be multi -
modal (kids and teens can bike and walk but not 
drive) with an emphasis on safety features. A 
safe, walkable system would also allow residents 
to access nearby amenities without depending 
upon a vehicle. 
PRIORITIES - Walkability is a top six priority. 
Preserving natural resources, another priority, 
relates to transportation too: less driving 
improves air quality, and adding landscaping to 
streetscapes provides habitat for vegetation and 
pollinators.
SWOT AND APAE ANALYSES -  These analyses 
convey issues and opportunities related to trans-
portation, such as sidewalk needs, speeding 
issues, close proximity to the freeway, and lack 
of viable public or alternative transportation 
options. Find the public comments from these 
analyses on page 77.
Takeaway: Residents have identified small-scale 
infrastructure improvements to the streetscape; 
these will help fulfill the community’s stated 
desires to increase safety and walkability.
Photo Credits: Mikala Jordan, GSL-MSD
  - Page 77
Transportation
White City General Plan - Page 78
What is connectivity? Why does 
it matter?
Connectivity is the ability to travel more as the 
crow flies: to reach more destinations. In a more 
connected place. Olivia accesses her doctor’s 
office, bank, local park, and favorite café all 
within a mile; in fact, she enjoys a safe walk to 
reach them. In a less connected place, Xavier 
travels several miles in different directions to 
reach these destinations, and he must drive. 
Connectivity matters because it allows greater 
access to opportunity. A person can reach their 
valued destinations in a reasonable time period, 
spending less time and money on transpor -
tation to meet their needs. Connectivity has a 
positive impact on the economic wellbeing of 
a community (Sisson, 2019); the WFRC explains 
this relationship as convenience + amenities = 
financial health for a community (WFRC, 2019). 
In more connected areas, active transportation 
increases. This has six great impacts:
◊ reduces congestion,
◊ reduces air pollution,
◊ increases physical and mental wellbeing,
◊ increases community visibility of the 
street and activity on the street, thereby 
increasing safety, 
◊ increases people out and about 
supporting the local economy, and
◊ physical connectivity supports social 
connectivity.
Street Network
White City’s street network can be classified as 
a Curvilinear Loop Design, the street network 
design common from the 1930s to 1950s (CNU, 
n.d.) (Figures 17 and 18). In this network, some 
streets are linear while others are curved. Addi -
tionally, few streets have dead-ends and most 
streets link to more than one other street. This 
Curvilinear Loop network is more connected 
than modern cul-de-sac designs, but less 
connected than a traditional grid network.
The connected street network benefits White 
City in several ways. One, it disperses vehicular 
traffic. Multiple options exist to travel from one 
destination to another, thereby decreasing traffic 
loads on any one street. Congestion decreases 
not only because cars have multiple routes to 
choose from, but also because more people can 
walk or bike: connected streets lead to more 
walking and biking (Napier, 2011).
Additionally, engaging in more physical activity 
improves health outcomes (Haskell, Blair, & Hill, 
2009). Having multiple routes available can 
increase the sense of safety of an individual, as 
an individual may not feel comfortable walking 
a predictable route. A sense of safety also 
increases with more people out and about on 
the streets. Thus, this network and the benefits 
associated with it are assets for White City in 
terms of congestion relief, active transportation 
habits, and safety.
Transportation  - Page 79
Figure Credit: Congress 
of the New Urbanism, 
Street Network 101
Figure 17: The Designs of Street Networks
Figure 18: White City’s Street Network
White City General Plan - Page 80
In Figure 19, black X’s and arrows indicate 
potential connectivity issues. X’s resemble 
dead ends. Arrows indicate parallel areas of 
close proximity that have limited connection. 
Sometimes connectivity is limited for pedes -
trians but not vehicles; sometimes vice-versa; 
and sometimes the street network impacts 
connectivity for both. For example, Dimple Dell 
cuts through White City and limits vehicular 
connections between the northern and 
In some places, purposeful disconnection, such 
as cul-de-sacs, make sense. When necessary, 
connectivity for pedestrians remains possible. 
For example, look at Silica Drive in the north -
eastern part of White City (Figure 20). Because 
Silica Drive ends with open property rather than 
a private house, residents along Silica Drive 
enjoy a short, direct route to Big Bear Park.
Takeaway: Maintaining or improving connec -
tivity should be a consideration in any proposed 
land use changes or transportation projects.
southern parts of White City. However, the lack 
of east-west connections across the Canal Trail 
in central White City impacts pedestrians and 
vehicles.
Street Network, Continued
Figure 19: Areas of Disconnection
Figure 20: Access to Big Bear Park
Transportation  - Page 81
Achieving Connectivity: Retrofits
Think about Rome, Italy: while the buildings 
changed many times since the age of the Roman 
Empire, the location of the roads has remained 
largely the same. Given that street networks 
are essentially permanent, how can existing 
communities increase their connectivity?
Connectivity can be enhanced at various levels. 
It is often possible to increase connectivity for 
pedestrians and bicyclists without altering 
vehicular pathways. Cul-de-sac cut throughs, 
such as those depicted below, link a neighbor -
hood and a shared-use path. Now, the residents 
of the neighborhood can enjoy the trail system 
and the river. The feasibility of cul-de-sac cut 
throughs depends on factors such as side-yard 
size, setback requirements, and property owner 
desires.
Another retrofit for enhancing connectivity 
is through redesigning the right-of-way. For 
example, if a four-lane, 60-foot road consistently 
supports the number of vehicles of a three-
lane road, then that road would be opportune 
for redesigning. The existing 60-foot right-
of-way – with no expansion – could turn into 
a three-lane road with an elevated, separated 
sidewalk and on-street parking on one side. 
Suddenly, active transportation becomes viable 
and parking capacity increases. See the Street 
Connectivity Guide prepared by the Lehigh 
Valley Planning Commission for more examples 
of achieving connectivity, connected areas, and 
disconnected areas: https://lvpc.org/pdf/street -
Connectivity.pdf (LVPC, 2011). 
Photo Credit: Ted Knowlton, Presentation, 2019. Photo Credit: Ted Knowlton, Presentation, 2019.
White City General Plan - Page 82
Street Classifications
The Functional Classification system is based 
on anticipated traffic throughput and access to 
property. According to this system, White City’s 
streets are arterial, collector, or local roads (Figure 
21) (UDOT, n.d. A). No roads within or immediately 
adjacent to White City are freeways. Street classifica -
tions for streets within and/or adjacent to White City 
are highlighted below:
700 E (71): principal arterial 
Sego Lily Drive: major collector
9000 S (209): principal arterial 
Larkspur Drive: minor collector
1300 E: minor arterial 
Flint Drive: minor collector
9400 S: minor arterial
10600 S: minor arterial
Carnation Dr: local road
All other streets: local roads
With the Functional Classification system, the 
assumption is that all streets under one classifica -
tion should be maintained, planned, and updated 
the same way, despite the streets’ various purposes 
and needs. While useful for some planning, the Func-
tional system may not be specific enough to deal 
with the nuances of a community that is predomi -
nantly composed of local roads. White City has many 
local roads, but they are not one-size-fits-all. People 
utilize different streets to meet different needs. In 
fact, a street’s surrounding land use influences how 
the street is used. Some local roads bring residents 
to important destinations, such as churches, Big Bear 
Park, and schools. Other local roads access residen -
tial areas on cul-de-sacs. Streets host various types 
and/or amounts of travelers. For example, Carnation 
Drive sees high use and connects to two arterial 
roads (700 E and 10600 S), yet UDOT classifies it as 
local. White City’s local roads differ in characteristics 
such as width, amenities (i.e. street lights), connec -
tivity (ie. cul-desac ending versus connected street), 
grade, adjacent land use (i.e. types of structures or 
location of structures relative to the road), and active 
transportation features (i.e. sidewalk).
Takeaway: A more nuanced classification 
approach would help planners and engineers 
better understand and strategize for the trans -
portation needs of residents on various streets. 
Developing a typological classification system 
for White City’s local roads, via a study, would 
help achieve this.
On Carnation Drive and E 10600 S: “ A right 
turn lane on the north-east corner to turn into 
Carnation heading north would be beneficial. You 
could...add some landscaping and some art to 
beautify an entrance into White City ” – Respon -
dent, Transportation and Land Use Survey , 2020.
On S 1300 E: “ Lack of walkability. Development 
discourages neighborhood shops, only options 
involve crossing very busy large roads, virtually 
no buses, not many bike lanes, etc. ” – Respon -
dent, Transportation and Land Use Survey , 2020.
  - Page 83
Figure 21: Functional Road Classes
Transportation
White City General Plan - Page 84
Classifications of Streets
FUNCTIONAL - Traditionally, streets are classified 
into the following categories: Freeway, Arterial, 
Collector, and Local. These categories—called 
Functional Classifications—are based upon 
anticipated traffic throughput and access to 
property. Freeways carry the highest traffic loads 
and allow high speeds but have limited access, 
while local roads carry the lowest traffic loads, at 
slow speeds, but provide access to many places. 
Local roads are generally the most comfortable 
and safest for bicyclists and pedestrians.
TYPOLOGICAL - In recent years, planners and 
transportation professionals have shifted away 
from the Functional Classification framework 
and into a Street Typologies framework. The 
Typologies framework differs from the tradi -
tional Functional framework in that it: 
◊ Accounts for surrounding land use when 
planning streets
◊ Considers active transportation, such as 
walking and biking
◊ Includes street design considerations, 
such as lighting and benches
◊ Materializes through public input 
– officials cannot accurately create Typolo -
gies without public feedback
◊ Considers person mobility, vehicle 
mobility, placemaking, access, and 
greening for each street, prioritizing those 
five purposes for each street
Traffic Volume and Safety
SEGO LILY DRIVE
White City Engineers with Avenue Consultants 
conducted a study on Sego Lily Drive. The Sego 
Lily Corridor Study included parking invento -
ries in March and April 2020 and an analysis 
of historic aerial imagery of parking between 
2016 and 2019. The study also analyzed vehicle, 
bicycle, and walking trends. The following data 
resulted from this study.
Sego Lily Drive cuts through the center of White 
City, east-west. As a major collector road, its 
traffic volumes are some of the highest in the 
community. Sego Lily supported about 6,600 
vehicle trips per day before the Corona Virus 
19 outbreak. However, the road is designed 
for 12,000 to 18,000 trips a day, so it is far from 
capacity and not expected to reach capacity any 
time in the near future. Since the Corona Virus 
19 outbreak, daily trips dipped to under 4,000.
Sego Lily’s estimated 85th percentile speeds 
range from 27 to 34 mph, depending upon the 
direction and exact location on the road (Figure 
22). Surprisingly, more people speed going up 
the hill than down the hill. However, overall 
Sego Lily boasts few crashes due to speed. Main -
taining low crash rates is especially important 
on Sego Lily because Sego Lily is a prospec -
tive active transportation corridor, and crashes 
between vehicles and pedestrians or cyclists can 
be particularly deadly.
Transportation  - Page 85
Classifications of Streets, Con’t
Below, find an example of two Street Typologies: 
a local street with urban low intensity develop -
ment (left), and a local street with urban medium
Figure 22: Speed Statistics on Sego Lily Drive
Figure Credit: Sego Lily Corridor Study, 2020
Takeaway: Traffic calming measures would slow 
85th percentile speeds on Sego Lily and create 
a more welcoming environment for pedestrians 
and cyclists along the street, especially in areas 
lacking sidewalks.
intensity development (right). The designs 
and plans for the streets differ because of the 
adjacent land use differences.
Figure Credit: Plan OKC
White City General Plan - Page 86
Commuting Patterns
White City is located on the east side of the Salt 
Lake Valley. Much of White City’s workforce of 
610 commutes to adjacent Sandy City or west to 
West Jordan City (USCB, 2017) (Figure 23). Other 
commuting destinations include Draper (34 
people), South Jordan (33), West Valley City (22), 
and Salt Lake City (20). 
Single-occupancy vehicles are the most 
common method used for commuting by White 
City residents, but a significant portion carpool 
as well (Figure 24) (USCB, 2019). Compared to 
Sandy City, Salt Lake County, and Utah, propor -
tionally fewer White City residents commute 
by driving alone while more commute through 
carpooling. Following Corona Virus 19, the 
percentage of residents who work from home 
has likely increased significantly and may remain 
higher than 2019 values in the future. 
Takeaway: Encouraging use of other modes 
and improving infrastructure that supports 
other modes would reduce dependency on 
single-occupancy vehicles, thereby reducing 
wear and tear on roads, lowering air pollution, 
and increasing access (especially for those who 
cannot drive). 
Figure 24: Commuting Patterns in 2019
Figure 23: Workforce to Sandy and West Jordan
Transportation  - Page 87
Public & Alternative Transit
Some public transportation connects White City 
to other places (Figure 25). Three percent of 
residents take public transport to work, which 
slightly exceeds Utah’s state average. BUS STOPS 
sit on and near White City’s borders on 9400 S, 
10600 S, and 1300 E. Routes F94 and F456 sit 
closest, while F514 and 201 are accessed within 
1.5 miles from some points in White City. Access 
to LIGHT RAIL is limited. The Blue Line can be 
accessed at Sandy Civic Center Station or Sandy 
Expo Stations, located between 1.1 to 3.0 miles 
away. Residents have suggested a bus route 
through White City to the light rail stations.
MICROMOBILITY is a new form of public trans -
portation that includes:
◊ VIA is a van shuttle system that services a 
designated area. Rates are the same as bus 
rates. UTA tested this in southern Salt Lake 
County, and it may be viable for White City 
though it has not yet been tested here (UTA, 
n.d. B).
◊ Electric scooters and bike shares recently 
boomed in popularity. Great for making 1st/
Last Mile connections between home and 
work, these inexpensive forms of transpor -
tation could likely expand into White City.
White City residents value trip-chaining:
57 percent of White City respondents said the 
inability to effectively trip chain (reach several 
destinations in one trip) was an important or 
very important transportation concern of theirs 
- Transportation and Land Use Survey , 2020.
Takeaway: Because public transportation service 
depends on reliable ridership, educational and 
promotional efforts can make White City a more 
attractive place for service providers. Micromo -
bility is a less costly alternative that provides 
options for residents.
White City residents desire improved public 
transportation:
80 percent of White City residents expressed 
concern about inadequate public transporta -
tion - Transportation and Land Use Survey , 2020.
“I love the new trail and the bridge that connects 
us to the north side and Bear park. It makes it so 
much easier to get around in the neighborhood 
without having to go down to 7th or up the 13th. 
Both very dangerous roads. .. ” - Respondent, Land 
and Character Survey, Summer 2020.
“Sidewalk corners do not always allow for strollers, 
wheel chairs and bikes to go off on a ramp. We 
end up clunking off the edge. It would mean so 
much to have each corner shaved down so we 
don’t have to deal with this problem anymore! “ 
- Respondent, Area Needs and Priorities Survey , 
November 2020.
Over half of respondents (54 percent) consider 
unsafe travel a “very important” transportation 
concern of theirs - Transportation and Land Use 
Survey, 2020.
White City General Plan - Page 88
Figure 25: Transit
Transportation  - Page 89
Active Transportation
Active transportation is any form of mobility 
achieved solely through human power – most 
commonly, walking and biking. Rollerskating, 
roller blading, and skateboarding are other forms 
of active transportation. In White City, walking is 
the most common form of active transportation. 
In fact, about two percent of residents commute 
between work and home by walking (USCB, 
2019). And, 76 percent of respondents walk daily 
or weekly ( Transportation and Land Use  Survey, 
2020). 
There are several key components in planning 
regarding active transportation: infrastructure 
(sidewalks, bike lanes, lighting, road finishing 
material), land use (relative location of active 
transportation corridor), existing routes (where 
do people walk now, where does pedestrian infra-
structure exist now), and gaps in routes (where 
are pedestrians prevented from traveling, where 
is walking and biking happening but unsafe or 
without supportive infrastructure).
What’s the low-down on active 
transportation?
Active transportation has dozens of individual 
and societal benefits. Some powerful benefits 
of active transportation include:
◊ Improved physical health
◊ Improved mental/emotional health
◊ Cost-savings: Reduced wear & tear on 
roads
◊ Lessened traffic congestion
◊ Reduced air, noise, and water pollution
◊ Inexpensive
◊ Supports local business by bringing 
people onto the streets
◊ Safety – driving is the single most 
dangerous activity the average American 
engages in (Driving is Dangerous).
Takeaway: Active transportation is beneficial 
to White City as a community as well as indi -
vidual residents. Increasing participation in 
active transportation requires a multi-faceted 
approach that considers infrastructure, land use, 
and route information. Conducting an active 
transportation study is the first step in achieving 
this.
Utahns want to walk and bike more:
◊ 70 percent would like to walk more
◊ 53 percent would like to bike more
(Utah Statewide Household Travel Survey , 2012).
39 percent of White City respondents said they 
walked daily and 37 percent said they walked 
weekly - Transportation and Land Use Survey, 
2020. If more people work from home, people 
may walk more regularly. Having safe and 
adequate sidewalks and bike lanes would spur 
activity also.
White City General Plan - Page 90
PEDESTRIAN INFRASTRUCTURE
Pedestrian infrastructure is infrastructure that 
makes biking and walking viable modes of trans-
portation. It includes trails as well as structures 
such as benches, lighting, signage, sidewalks, 
crosswalks, pedestrian bridges, pedestrian 
tunnels, bike lanes, and shared-use pathways. 
Understanding where infrastructure is present 
and where it is needed is important; this work 
began with the General Plan via dozens of 
resident comments and concerns in the surveys 
(Appendix B). Additionally, a sidewalk inventory 
is underway, prioritizing where sidewalks are 
needed and identifying where maintenance for 
existing sidewalks is required. 
Two main active transportation areas exist for 
White City residents: the Sandy Draper Canal 
Trail and various pathways through Dimple 
Dell Park. (Figure 26). A new paved multi-use 
trail, the Sandy Draper Canal Trail, runs north to 
south from 10600 S across Dimple Dell Park via 
a pedestrian bridge, and will run around Bear 
Park when completed. Upon completion, this 
trail will be dedicated and turned over to White 
City ownership. Running through Dimple Dell 
Regional Park are unpaved, multi-use trails; while 
not White City property, these trails are acces -
sible to White City residents and frequented 
often. However, the Dimple Dell trails are 
primarily used for recreation and not for getting 
from point A to point B. Additionally, expected 
by 2023 is a future active transportation corridor 
along Sego Lily Drive. 
Residents called the new pedestrian crossing 
over Dimple Dell as an asset but also pointed 
out privacy and security concerns for home -
owners whose properties border the trail, Area 
Needs and Priorities Survey , November 2020.
STREET DESIGN AND SEGO LILY
White City Engineering with Avenue Consul -
tants led a Corridor Study on Sego Lily Drive. The 
project aimed to assess the feasibility of re-imag-
ining Sego Lily within the existing right-of-way 
as well as to understand what the public desires 
are regarding the road. In a survey targeted at 
but not limited to residents along Sego Lily, 
119 residents voted on design options. The 
two most popular designs included increased 
active transportation options, which makes 
sense given that Sego Lily supported over 5,000 
bicycling trips in one year (SLCo Engineering 
& Avenue, April 2020). One design offered two 
five-foot bike lanes, one on the north side and 
one on the south side (SLCo Engineering & 
Avenue, June 2020). The second design offered 
one 10-foot multi-use paved path on the north 
side of the street (SLCo Engineering & Avenue, 
June 2020). Work continues to determine the 
final design before implementation. Cost, safety, 
aesthetics, supported parking, and supported 
traffic volume are variables that will influence 
the final decision.
“The new bike/walk bridge over dimple dell will 
be wonderful. It allows pedestrians and bicy -
clists the option to stay away from vehicle traffic, 
yet connecting them through an active path for 
exercise, ” Respondent, Transportation and Land 
Use Survey , 2020.
  - Page 91
Figure 26: Trails
Transportation
White City General Plan - Page 92
Accessibility
Accessibility is a measure of how many desti -
nations can be reached within a reasonable 
distance. The WFRC measures job accessibility 
by automobiles and by transit. By personal auto -
mobile, White City residents can reach 254,000 
to 264,000 jobs (Figure 27) (WFRC, n.d.). By 
public transit, White City residents can reach 
10,000 to 32,000 jobs (Figure 28). Compared to 
other southeast Salt Lake County areas, White 
City’s job accessibility by automobile is slightly 
below average, while White City’s job accessi -
bility by transit is below average. Western White 
City ranks in the bottom 20 percent of job access 
via transit.
Takeaway: Improving internet speeds to support 
home occupations, and engaging in regional 
planning efforts that connect White City to other 
places.
Figure Credit: WFRC, n.d.
“Access into White City by bus has not always 
been non-existent. The populous is getting older, 
many are becoming unable to drive. With fewer 
options and fewer conveniences ” – a respondent 
identifies the link between access and age, 
Transportation and Land Use Survey , 2020.
Figure 27: Access to Jobs via the Automobile
“I want local small business to move in! I want to be 
able to walk to a small business and inject money 
into the area I live in instead of giving everything 
to Sandy and Draper. I'd like to see more multi-
family housing go up. I'd like to see sidewalks ” - a 
respondent links the economy, housing oppor -
tunities, transportation, and accessibility, Land 
and Character Survey , Summer 2020.
  - Page 93
Figure Credit: WFRC, n.d.
Figure 28: Access to Jobs via Transit
Transportation
White City General Plan - Page 94
Future Transportation
White City’s opportunities and challenges 
regarding transportation fall into several 
categories: modal choice, collaboration and 
communication, infrastructure maintenance, 
safety, connectivity, and place-making. Connec -
tivity between homes and jobs will remain 
important for White City going forward. 
ACCESSIBILITY - The WFRC predicts that, by 
personal automobile, White City residents will 
reach 347,000 to 415,000 jobs in 2050 (WFRC, 
n.d.). By public transit, White City residents 
may reach 32,000 to 79,000 jobs (WFRC, n.d.). 
Therefore, the number of accessible jobs by 
either mode is predicted to increase. Relative to 
accessibility of other communities, White City’s 
accessibility remains the same for automo -
bile and improves slightly for transit. That the 
number of jobs accessible will increase is due to 
improved travel options and/or new jobs added 
closer to White City.
TRANSPORTATION AND DEMOGRAPHICS -  As 
shown through the 2020 Transportation and Land 
Use Survey and the American Community Survey 
results, White City depends on single-occupancy 
vehicles to travel. Yet, White City’s demographics 
indicate that a more multi-modal transportation 
system, with safe active transportation options, 
will be increasingly important to the community 
in the coming years. Sixty-eight percent of White 
City’s population is categorized as “Parks and 
Rec” by ESRI’s Tapestry program (ESRI, 2018). The 
“Parks and Rec” group “take[s] advantage of local 
parks and recreational activities. Their exercise 
routine is a balance of home-based exercise; a 
session at their local community gym; or a quick 
jog, swim, or run” (ESRI, 2019 B). Additionally, 
about 17 percent of the population is 65 years 
and older, and 8.7 percent of the population is 
75 years and older (USCB, 2019); some residents 
may no longer be comfortable driving and will 
depend on walking or public transportation to 
access daily needs. Bringing back previous bus 
routes or adding additional bus routes may 
bolster access for those unable to drive.
Additionally, “kid-friendly neighborhoods” such 
as those in White City are “now attracting a 
new generation of young couples” (ESRI, 2019 
B). White City’s population pyramid also points 
toward this trend: there is a bulge of residents 
between 25 and 39 years-old – the ages that 
start or have young families (GSL-MSD, 2019 B). 
Why do these patterns matter? Aging couples 
who prefer no-cost exercise, such as running or 
biking in the neighborhood, as well as families 
with young children who take family walks, both 
value safe, walkable areas. Thus, demographics 
indicate that investing in a high-quality active 
transportation system will be beneficial and that 
the system would be well-utilized. 
TRANSPORTATION, COMMERCE, AND  
EMPLOYMENT - With only one commercially 
zoned property in White City, residents rely on 
transportation to access almost all economic 
needs. Most residents commute for work, to 
dine out, to purchase clothing or other goods, to 
access health care, and to pursue education. This 
makes efficient, safe travel in and out of White 
City critical to the financial stability of residents. 
Transportation connections between White City 
and Sandy City and West Jordan, (the first and 
- Page 95
second most traveled to cities for work), are 
especially important. 
With current alternative transportation options, 
White City residents primarily use personal 
vehicles, which are the most expensive transpor -
tation mode (Gössling et al, 2019). On average, 
Americans spend $10,288 per year on direct 
automobile-related costs (INRIX, Inc, 2018). By 
another metric, shifting 1,000 miles of travel by 
automobile to travel by active transportation, 
for example, saves communities and individuals 
$14,300 from roadway cost savings, vehicle cost 
savings, parking costs, air pollution reduction, 
and more, after taking pedestrian infrastructure 
costs into account (Litman, 2020). Additionally, 
driving is the single most dangerous activity the 
average American engages in (Drive Safely, n.d.). 
Dependency on an expensive and less safe mode 
of travel to make a livelihood does not bolster 
security for White City residents, especially 
those of lower-socioeconomic status. Opportu -
nities to expand modal choice and connectivity 
can reduce this dependency, increase residents’ 
financial security, and support residents’ value 
of personal freedom. This does not mean driving 
should be discouraged: personal automobiles 
are important and beneficial transportation 
modes for many people; rather, by adding to 
the already acceptable transportation condi -
tions in White City via personal automobiles, 
residents gain choice. Many of the 14.8 percent 
of residents with disabilities (USCB, 2018), for 
example, would experience enhanced freedom 
and connectivity with expanded public trans -
portation options.
TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING - Per Senate 
Bill 34, White City must plan for moderate-in -
come housing options. One strategy that White 
City selected to increase moderate-income 
housing options is Accessory Dwelling Units 
(IADUs). Because owning a car is expensive (i.e. 
car payment, car insurance fees, maintenance 
costs, gas, license and registration fees), the low 
or moderate-income families who would seek 
IADUs for housing options may not be able to 
afford a vehicle or may have more household 
members commuting to workplaces than cars 
available for the household. Therefore, moder -
ate-income housing options offered in White 
City would be most beneficial when located 
closest to the bus stops and nearby commercial 
areas of Sandy; this way, residents can access 
goods and transportation without owning a 
vehicle. If future IADU renters own cars, however, 
the data shows White City is not near on-street 
parking capacity. On Sego Lily Drive, White City’s 
main thoroughfare, only 11 percent of available 
parking spaces were utilized at the busiest time 
(the busiest time documented was March 21, 
2020 from 1:22 – 2:27 pm) (SLCo Engineering & 
Avenue Consultants, April 2020). 
Additionally, White City’s neighbors are focusing 
on active transportation: Sandy and Draper have 
put energy into active transportation projects 
to much success. In conjunction with White 
City’s more affordable housing, pursuing active 
transportation projects will help White City 
economically compete, attracting new families 
who value walking and biking.
White City General Plan - Page 96
TRANSPORTATION AND LAND USE - Transporta-
tion and land use are tightly connected; in White 
City’s case, this is especially true when it comes 
to improving walkability and enhancing acces -
sibility. While White City is entirely built-out 
and primarily residential, the introduction of 
pedestrian-oriented infrastructure can connect 
residents to nearby businesses and reduce 
vehicular traffic. Potential future land use 
changes along 10600 South would introduce 
amenities to the community, reduce auto-de -
pendent travel when compared to having to 
reach those amenities in other communities, 
and help convert 10600 South into a complete 
street. 
KEY RECOMMENDATION:
Work toward implementing street -
scape improvements that increase 
the safety of all modes of travel, the 
aesthetics of the public right-of-ways, 
and the walkability of White City.
TRANSPORTATION GOALS:
T1: Encourage good access to and 
smooth, safe transitions between key 
locations within and outside of White 
City.
T2: Support transportation areas 
becoming more aesthetically pleasing, 
environmentally friendly, culturally 
interesting, and health-conscious.
T3: Achieve well-maintained transpor -
tation infrastructure.
T4: Support adequate and safe parking.
T5: Increase pedestrian and bicyclist 
access, safety, and comfort.
Photo credit: Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD
- Page 97
TRANSPORTATION TAKEAWAYS:
◊ High quality transportation 
options are necessary for White City, 
as the residents leave municipal 
borders for groceries, health care, 
and more. Moving forward, coordi -
nating and cooperating with other 
agencies and entities will improve 
transportation conditions within 
White City as well as between White 
City and nearby communities.
◊ Residents have identified small-
scale infrastructure improvements to 
the streetscape; these will help fulfill 
the community’s stated desires to 
increase safety and walkability. 
◊ Maintaining or improving 
connectivity should be a consid -
eration in any proposed land use 
changes or transportation projects.
◊ A more nuanced classification 
approach would help planners and 
engineers better understand and 
strategize for the transportation 
needs of residents on various streets. 
Developing a typological classifi -
cation system for White City’s local 
roads, via a study, would help achieve 
this.
◊ Traffic calming measures would 
slow 85th percentile speeds on Sego 
Lily and create a more welcoming 
environment for pedestrians and 
cyclists along the street, especially in 
areas lacking sidewalks.
◊ Encouraging use of other modes 
and improving infrastructure that 
supports other modes would reduce 
dependency on single-occupancy 
vehicles, thereby reducing wear and 
tear on roads, lowering air pollution, 
and increasing access (especially for 
those who cannot drive). 
◊ Because public transportation 
service depends on reliable ridership, 
educational and promotional efforts 
can make White City a more attractive 
place for service providers. Micromo -
bility is a less costly alternative that 
provides options for residents.
◊ Active transportation is beneficial 
to White City as a community as well 
as individual residents. Increasing 
participation in active transpor -
tation requires a multi-faceted 
approach that considers infrastruc -
ture, land use, and route information. 
Conducting an active transportation 
study is the first step in achieving 
this. 
◊ While White City’s current acces -
sibility is low, it would improve by 
allowing small scale mixed use on 
10600 South, improving internet 
speeds to support home occupa -
tions, and engaging in regional 
planning efforts that connect White 
City to other places.
Transportation
White City General Plan  - Page 98
CHAPTER SIX:
LIFELONG COMMUNITIES
Key Recommendations:
Work toward infrastructure implemen -
tation that supports successful aging 
in community, community resilience 
to natural hazards, and environmental 
sustainability.
Increase sales tax revenue to support 
desired projects by a) supporting 
at-home businesses through resources 
and fast internet speeds and b) 
updating land use ordinances to allow 
small, home businesses in areas.
Goals:
◊ LC1: Foster transparency, collaboration, 
and clear communication among officials, 
staff, the public, and other agencies. 
◊ LC2: Encourge digital infrastructure to 
support home-based work, entertainment, 
and education opportunities. 
◊ LC3: Support small-scale local and home-
based businesses with access to resources 
for financial assistance and/or business 
training and education. 
◊ LC4: Ensure that the built environment 
supports people of all ages and abilities, 
allowing safe and easy navigation within the 
community as well as access to important 
places outside the community. 
◊ LC5: Strengthen resilience through 
emergency preparedness and response. 
◊ LC6: Make reasonable efforts to improve 
the quality of the natural environment and 
mitigate negative environmental impacts.
◊ LC7: Maintain and make needs-appro -
priate improvements to infrastructure to 
support the resilience of the built environ -
ment. 
◊ LC8: Preserve the heart of White City’s 
character.
 - Page 99
The Importance of Lifelong 
Communities
Lifelong communities are places where people 
can live safely and comfortably throughout 
all life stages, from childhood to retirement 
age and beyond. Lifelong communities enable 
older residents to stay at their home of several 
decades, rather than be forced to leave for 
more age-friendly places. Such communities 
invite healthy lifestyles through walkability, 
clean air, and clean water. Their social and 
built environments, such as community orga -
nizations and neighborhood gathering places, 
both encourage strong relationships. Lifelong 
communities provide access to meaningful job 
opportunities, affordable housing, community 
services, recreational opportunities, and partic -
ipation in local government and community life. 
All in all, lifelong communities support happy, 
healthy individuals and happy, healthy towns.
Planning for lifelong communities is becoming 
increasingly important. First, the United States 
is aging. By 2030, one in five Americans will be 
older than 65 years (AARP , n.d.). White City’s 
demographics align with this projection: about 
17 percent of White City’s population is currently 
65 years old or older  (USCB, 2019). Second, 
involving all voices in government, community, 
and planning processes is becoming increas -
ingly recognized as necessary for making the 
most resilient, appealing, equitable, and close-
knit communities.
White City’s lifelong communities element takes 
a holistic approach to planning for White City’s 
future. It investigates and envisions White City 
as a lifelong community through the lenses of 
governance, economic opportunities, aging in 
community, and resilience and sustainability.
Why do we talk about governance, economic 
opportunities, aging in community, and resil -
ience and sustainability?
These themes arose from the culmination of 
discussions and public feedback throughout 
the General Plan process. For example, meeting 
attendees identified that older residents may not 
be able to travel to public events hosted outside 
of White City and may not know how to access 
virtual meetings. Survey respondents identified 
public safety concerns as well as commented on 
the difficulty of navigating sidewalk corners with 
a stroller or by wheelchair. Balancing the wants 
and needs of current residents with consider -
ations of what today’s children would someday 
need and desire often underlied discussions too.
That these themes tied in with community 
engagement, land use, and transportation 
discussions makes sense. Together, these 
four themes shape the human experience of 
community. Does fair and just governance facil -
itate a trusting, equitable, tight-knit, and safe 
community? Does economic vitality enable 
options for individuals and families to live 
comfortably? Are the conditions of the physical 
and built environments conducive to healthy 
living at any age? Can the community move 
forward from hardships and operate in a way 
that will carry the community successfully into 
the future? As affirmative answers to these 
questions are important, this chapter aims to 
provide goals and tangible actions around these 
themes.
Lifelong Communities
White City General Plan - Page 100
Governance and Services
Governance is the ways by which a community 
structures its rules, regulations, norms, and 
actions. In the United States, governance 
functions at the national, state, regional, and 
local levels. This Plan looks at White City’s local 
governance. 
Governance and services influence people’s 
everyday lives. They encompass many important 
functions, ranging from emergency services 
to water provision to organizing community 
events. These functions range from helping us 
meet our basic needs to facilitating better quality 
of life and social wellbeing. For example, White 
City is led by a Council, and they coordinate with 
essential services like the Unified Fire Authority 
and the White City Water Improvement District. 
They also support the White City Community 
Council, which plans events, such as the car 
show, that bring the community together. In 
lifelong communities, governance and services 
support residents at all life stages. 
Aging in Community
Our experience of age impacts our lives. As 
toddlers, we want splash pads and playgrounds; 
as teens, we need parks to explore and sidewalks 
to safely bike to our friends’ houses. As adults we 
may prioritize home-owning, nearby daycare, or 
a go-to restaurant for date night. Regardless of 
our age, a lifelong community works to balance 
its residents’ various needs. This is especially 
important in White City, due to the communi -
ty’s diverse age demographics. 26.9 percent of 
residents are under 18 years old, 16.6 percent 
are older than 65 years, and the biggest 5-year 
population bracket is 30-34 years, which only is 
10.4 percent of the population (USCB, 2019).
Being able to remain in your community as you 
age is fundamental to lifelong communities. So 
what does it mean to safely and comfortably 
live in your residence, on your street, and in the 
greater community? It means that a person of 
any age can retain autonomy in their daily life. 
They can continue utilizing their home while also 
maintaining access to community amenities. 
Therefore, a person’s residence must support 
their changing needs. For example, support 
bars can make showers safer; ramps can replace 
stairs. Additionally, the transportation network 
needs to support aging. For instance, bus stops 
can include benches for resting, and crosswalk 
signals can be lengthened to accommodate 
slower walkers. Finally, the greater community 
considers and is inclusive of older adults. For 
example, community events provide activities 
of interest to older adults, and older adult voices 
are taken seriously in public meetings.
Economic Opportunities
Economic opportunities are the means by which 
we make a living. To be a lifelong community, 
residents of all ages must access economic 
opportunities. Teens seek part-time jobs to save 
for college; married couples pursue dual-income 
households to pay mortgage and support their 
children; single-parents often work two jobs to 
get by; and retired folks may need to supple -
ment retirement or social security income.
Why should economic opportunities exist near 
residences? First, commuting costs time and 
money, and cost increases with distance. Those 
  - Page 101
people. Hardships and disasters comprise short 
and long term, sudden or gradual, expected or 
unexpected, small or large, experiences. Natural 
disaster (the Salt Lake Valley’s 2020 earthquake), 
environmental degradation (poor air quality), 
discrimination (civil unrest throughout 2020), 
pandemic and economic recession (COVID-19), 
and the digital revolution (remote and virtual 
work) are all examples of hardships and disasters 
that White City may experience.
Sustainability is meeting the economic, social, 
and environmental needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future genera -
tions to meet those same needs. Sustainable 
communities balance their current daily needs 
with considerations of people’s needs 10, 20, 50, 
even 100 years into the future. They plan ahead 
so that they can facilitate positive change. In 
White City, thinking sustainably could look like 
considering what the needs of White City’s large 
population of children will be as they become 
adults, or considering how to encourage active 
transportation options to prevent worsening 
congestion and air quality.
Working toward resilience and sustainability 
helps a community be strong, adaptable, 
equitable, healthy, and long-lasting. As White 
City grows more resilient and sustainable, the 
breadth and depth of the impact of hardships 
and disasters decreases, and the ability to 
bounce back increases. This is essential to 
being a lifelong community, as the most vulner -
able people in a community are the ones who 
suffer the most from hardships and benefit the 
most from a strong, adaptable, and healthy 
community.
with lower incomes (such as the 8.5% of families 
below poverty based on a 4 person household) 
may less easily afford things like gas, car main -
tenance, or daycare, all of which are correlated 
with longer commutes. Second, people may not 
be able to drive. In fact, we saw on pages 30-31 
15.7 percent of residents have a disability. It is 
important that people with different financial, 
physical, or mental needs can access economic 
opportunities.
Finally, economic opportunities are important 
for the financial health of the community. Sales 
fuel community funds necessary for transporta -
tion and infrastructure improvements. 
In today’s world, digital infrastructure is tied 
to the accessibility of economic opportuni -
ties. For example, the internet allows people to 
operate home-based businesses, or further their 
education to improve their economic prospects. 
Allowing White City’s access to high quality 
digitial infrastructure can be one way to increase 
economic opportunities.
Resilience and Sustainability
Resilience is the ability for complex systems to 
change, adapt, and transform, in positive ways 
and within a reasonable time frame, following 
hardships and disasters (adapted from Davoudi, 
2012). True resilience is when we learn from 
and improve upon past experiences, rather 
than returning to a “normal” that may not have 
benefited everyone. 
In planning, systems include social ones, such as 
the relationships of people within a community 
to each other, as well as ecological ones, such as 
the interactions of animals, plants, climate, and 
Lifelong Communities
White City General Plan - Page 102
What does White City say 
about lifelong communities?
MEETINGS - Three GPSC meetings specifically 
addressed themes of lifelong communities. And, 
as an interdisciplinary topic, lifelong community 
ideas arose throughout the process. The role of 
government in land use, how government repre-
sentatives interact with the public, aging and 
public transportation, aging and community 
Economic OpportunitiesGovernance and Services
engagement, at-home businesses, small-
scale mixed-use, air quality, public safety, and 
problems related to code enforcement were all 
discussed, among other ideas.
SWOT AND APAE ANALYSIS - In the following 
pages, find the SWOT and APAE public comments 
for each of the four themes of Lifelong Commu -
nities. Afterward find additional feedback from 
surveys and meetings for each theme.

- Page 103
Aging in Community Resilience and Sustainability
Lifelong Communities

White City General Plan - Page 104
Governance and Services
How a community structures its rules, regu -
lations, norms, and actions is its governance. 
Governance and services influence people’s 
everyday lives and are thus part of lifelong 
communities.
SWOT AND APAE ANALYSES- The SWOT and 
APAE analyses revealed public thoughts related 
to governance: namely, better transparency 
and public engagement in government deci -
sion-making, and education of code enforcement 
rules and standard administration of those rules. 
SURVEYS - Property rights, balanced land use 
policies, and diverse outreach methods were the 
ideas related to governance that emerged from 
the surveys. For example,  70% said “Protecting 
resident’s private property rights and land use 
values” was the highest priority or a high  priority 
(Area Needs and Priorities Survey , November 
2020).  Additionally, 58% said “Land use policies 
in White City are a  good balance of restrictive 
and enabling” ( Area Needs and Priorities Survey , 
November 2020). In response to “What is the 
best way for  you to participate in the planning 
process?” 25% said, “Receive and fill out  surveys, ” 
21% said, “Receive physical,  written updates, ” 
and 20% said, “Receive electronic updates” ( Area 
Needs and Priorities Survey , November 2020).   
EXISTING CONDITIONS- 
◊ The Council consists of five members. A 
quorum is three members. 
◊ The Planning Commission has five 
members with two alternates.
Who provides what?
As addressed in Chapter One: All About Planning, 
White City’s representative government consists 
of five council members elected by residents. 
Other organizations and entities provide 
necessary community services and impact how 
White City functions as a community. Some 
entities are below:
◊ Governing Body: White City Council
◊ Land Use Recommending Body: White 
City Planning Commission
◊ Community Organization: White City 
Community Council
◊ Planning and Development Services: 
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
◊ Public Safety: Unified Police Department
◊ Fire and Emergency Response: Unified 
Fire Authority
◊ Waste Pick-up: Wasatch Front Waste & 
Recycling
◊ Water: White City Water Improvement 
District
◊ Schools: Canyons School District
◊ Park Maintenance: Salt Lake County 
Parks and Recreation
Some of these organizations are specific to White 
City, while other organizations are contracted to 
serve White City in addition to other communi -
ties.
Lifelong Communities - Page 105
“I firmly believe we can find an answer that will 
bring us successfully into the next thirty years. 
Times have changed tremendously since I moved 
here (1967). We must move forward. We must 
make difficult decisions. We can retain the quaint 
and charming community, but it will definitely 
look different. Population will only get larger, 
we have a civic and moral obligation to plan for 
the future, difficult decisions and sacrifices must 
be made” – Respondent, Land and Character 
Survey, 2020.
“First off let the residents know what White City 
land policies are [because] I have no idea and I’ve 
lived here 35 years. See more transparency with 
our community council, steering committee and 
our mayor” – Respondent, Area Needs and Prior -
ities Survey , November 2020.
Takeaway: Beginning an ongoing education and 
outreach program regarding code enforcement 
would encourage compliance, facilitate under -
standing, and increase transparency.
Takeaway: Respect private property rights in 
how White City goes about governance; this is a 
core community value.
Takeaway: Continue utilizing diverse outreach 
methods (in-person, virtual, audio/visual, and 
physical materials) to transparently involve 
various members of the White City community 
in planning and government processes.
◊ White City collects various taxes from 
residents, such as sales taxes, and then 
remits this to the GSL-MSD. White City and 
other GSL-MSD member communities 
each approve their own budget. Then the 
GSL-MSD board adopts the budget and 
allocates it back to White City (and the other 
communities).
◊ Current municipal code for White City was 
adopted in 2017 from the Salt Lake County 
Code. As such, some parts of the code have 
been updated and some have not (Muni 
Code, 2018).
◊ White City’s current zoning map only uses 
five zones of the possible 50 inherited from 
the County outline in the municipal code 
(Muni Code, 2018).
◊ Between January first and November 
eighteenth of 2020, the MSD issued 34 
business licenses and 92 building permits 
in White City. During this time, the MSD also 
responded to 59 code enforcement viola -
tions (GSL-MSD, 2019 A).
◊ White City is about 6.7% of the total popu-
lation served by the GSL-MSD (USCB, 2019). 
In 2019, White City produced $578,600 in 
sales tax, which equated to 4.32% of the 
sales tax revenues generated by GSL-MSD 
communities (GSL-MSD, 2019 A).
◊ White City offers one elementary school 
within its boundaries but no high school or 
middle school.
White City General Plan - Page 106
Aging in Community
Lifelong communities allow everyone, whether 
infant, teenager, middle-aged adult, or older 
adult, to live safely and comfortably in their 
residence, on their street, and in their community. 
In other words, they are places and spaces that 
work for people of all ages.
SWOT AND APAE ANALYSES- These analyses 
revealed ideas about successfully aging in White 
City. Identified issues such as better crosswalks, 
increased street lighting, public transportation 
options, and increased walkability would facil -
itate older adults safely moving in and around 
the community. Maintaining friendships, sense 
of community, and neighborliness, and creating 
more community activities all facilitate bonds 
that lead to social support and facilitate mental 
and emotional wellbeing. See how these ideas 
relate to successfully aging in Figure 29.
SURVEYS - The following responses convey 
important considerations for supporting all 
White City residents, especially older adults: 
◊ 67% said “Availability of Cultural Activities” 
was important or very important ( Transpor-
tation and Land Use Survey,  2020).
◊ 100% said “Safe Homes and Neighbor -
hoods” was important or very important 
(Transportation and Land Use Survey,  2020).
◊ 70% said “Connecting homeowners with 
grants/volunteer assistance if they need 
support for home and yard repair and main -
tenance” was the highest priority or a high 
priority ( Area Needs and Priorities Survey,  
November 2020).
Aging and Universal Design
The design of the built environment matters, 
influencing if people comfortably, safely age-in-
place. The National Disability Authority’s Center 
promotes the use of the 7 Principles of Universal 
Design, developed by Ronald Mace (NDA, n.d.). 
These 7 Principles show how to design our 
built environment to support people of various 
abilities. See page 108 for example images.
◊ Equitable Use: The design is useful and 
marketable to people with diverse abilities.
◊ Flexibility in Use:  The design accom-
modates a wide range of individual 
preferences and abilities.
◊ Simple and Intuitive Use: Use of the 
design is easy to understand, regardless of 
the user’s experience, knowledge, language 
skills, or current concentration level.
◊ Perceptible information: The design 
communicates necessary information effec -
tively to the user, regardless of ambient 
conditions or the user’s sensory abilities.
◊ Tolerance for Error: The design 
minimizes hazards and the adverse conse -
quences of accidental or unintended 
actions.
◊ Low Physical Effort: The design can be 
used efficiently and comfortably and with a 
minimum of fatigue.
◊ Size and Space for Approach and 
Use: The design can be used efficiently 
and comfortably and with a minimum of 
fatigue.
Lifelong Communities - Page 107
EXISTING CONDITIONS- 
◊ 962 adults are aged 65 years and older.
◊ 15.7% of the population has a disability  .
◊ 452 people are below the poverty line  .
◊ 119 households have no access to a 
vehicle.
◊ There is no community center or senior 
center.
◊ There is limited service by public transit 
and limited walkability to grocery stores.
Data comes from the USCB, 2019 (bullet points one through four) 
and GSL-MSD (bullet points five and six). 
“We could use more sidewalks to make it easier 
for people to get around, especially the elderly. 
I walk around this area everyday with my dog, I 
feel cleaning up some of the current spaces and 
enforcing code would improve the look of our 
community” – Respondent, Land and Character 
Survey, 2020.
“An elderly neighbor on our street is in dire need 
of a new roof, but does not have the money to 
replace it. It looks like the roof may collapse soon 
if not replaced. Are there any grants available to 
help him? ” – Respondent, Land and Character 
Survey, 2020.
Figure 29: Successfully aging in community consists of factors relating to self, places, and others.
White City General Plan - Page 108
Takeaway: Prioritizing age-friendliness in the 
design and functioning of the built environment 
not only facilitates safe movement and access, 
but also promotes social connection. 
EXAMPLES OF AGE-FRIENDLY AND ACCESSIBLE PLACES
Photo credit: Age-Friendly Strategy, Township of Langley.
Photo credit: Kithen and Bath Design News.
Photo credit: Pinterest.
Photo credit: Samantha Bartram, NRPA.
Example of a senior exercise park.
Example of a kitchen sink and cabinetry created 
to universal design standards.
Example of an accessible building entrance.
Example of a bathroom with features for 
universal access.
Photo credit: Age-Friendly Strategy, Township of Langley.
Example of older adults from the community 
meeting up for a social game night.
Lifelong Communities - Page 109
Economic Opportunities
Economic opportunities are the ways by which 
we supports our lives financially. Since everyone 
has basic needs, economic opportunities are an 
essential part of lifelong communities.
SWOT AND APAE ANALYSES- The SWOT and APAE 
analyses revealed various public opinions, such 
as a desire to bring businesses back to White 
City, that had been annexed by Sandy City, 
viewing a lacking commercial tax base as a 
weakness, viewing no commercial development 
as a strength, and a desire to avoid big commer -
cial development. 
SURVEYS - Surveys revealed tensions surrounding 
economic opportunities. Communicated via 
written comments, many wanted more business 
opportunities, the ability to spend money in 
White City rather than Sandy, and the ability to 
have White City-based services. Others feared 
that expanding economic opportunities may 
change the character of White City. For example:
◊ 83% said “Limiting growth and develop -
ment” was important or very important; in 
the same survey, 56% said that “Business 
mix” was important or very important (Trans-
portation and Land Use Survey,  2020). 
◊ In the Land and Character Survey , for 
the question: “In the future, where do you 
think it would be most appropriate to allow 
mixed use areas in White City?” 34% chose 
“nowhere” while various other locations, 
such as near major intersections, comprised 
the remaining 66% (November 2020). 
Among survey respondents and in GPSC 
meetings, there was key agreement that strip 
malls, big box development, and large scale 
commercial endeavors are not appropriate for 
White City. In written comments, when residents 
opposed to additional economic opportunities, 
they often correlated businesses with conges -
tion, noise, losing White City’s character, and 
taking away existing residents’ homes.
EXISTING CONDITIONS- 
◊ 452 people are below the poverty level  .
◊ 3,398 people are in the labor force  .
◊ 24.9% of people have a Bachelor’s degree 
or higher .
◊ $63,446 is the median household income.  
◊ $50,692 is the median earnings  for males. 
◊ $33,400 is the median earnings for 
females.
◊ At present, none of White City accesses 
the highest broadband speeds.
◊ There is one commercially zoned property.
◊ 34 business licenses were issued between 
January first and November eighteenth, 
2020.
Photo credit: Alta View Orthodontics
Figure 30: The one commercially zoned property.
White City General Plan - Page 110
“Areas of Sugarhouse and [Holladay] that have 
1 or 2 small shops scattered in the neighborhood 
should be used as an example for the potential 
here. Adding small community-focused amenities 
would enhance the appeal and encourage 
walking” – Respondent, Land and Character 
Survey, 2020.
“I would love to see fiber come into our 
community especially with the changes to 
workplace locations being from home now and in 
the foreseeable future ” – Respondent, Land and 
Character Survey , 2020.
“Mixed use. New larger homes for young families. 
See trees that shade the streets and sidewalks like 
in Sugarhouse. A nice community center for White 
City for meetings and recreation. Large, welcome 
park entrances for Bear and Dimple Dell parks, 
and trails ” – Respondent, Land and Character 
Survey, 2020.
“I like the single family dwellings and do not 
want commercial development or mixed use ” – 
Respondent, Land and Character Survey , 2020.
“I like the park and the community pool. I don’t 
want high density housing and strip malls that will 
bring in undesirable businesses or will sit empty ” 
– Respondent, Land and Character Survey , 2020.
“I think there are very few areas where mixed use 
could make sense in White City, but I am in favor 
of looking for ways to allow more home based 
businesses. If mixed use was incorporated I would 
support a model that allows a home to be used as 
a business, but also has to maintain a residential 
unit on site to maintain sense of community. Or 
not allow major changes that wouldn’t allow it to 
easily be used as a residence by the next owner. 
And I would limit it to specific areas instead of 
community wide ” – Respondent, Land and 
Character Survey , 2020.
“No [noisey] business like tire shops etc. The 
business should be low keyed and blend in. We 
do not want White City to look like State Street. ” 
– Respondent, Land and Character Survey , 2020.
“We moved to White City because of the small 
town feel, the friendly neighbors, the walk ability, 
and the closeness to other places. Please do 
not make this area a mixed use area. We live on 
Hollyhock Avenue, just on the other side of 106th. 
We are very concerned about the effects of mixed 
use properties on the safety and desirability of 
our neighborhood ” – Respondent, Land and 
Character Survey , 2020.
“Why do you keep trying to get rid of peoples 
homes? We have enough crummy strip malls 
and chain restaurants in Sandy. Let’s preserve 
some neighborhoods! ” – Respondent, Land and 
Character Survey , 2020.
“We desperately want a local pub or restaurant 
in the area. Something that we could walk to on 
cooler evening and actually enjoy within White 
City instead of having to go to Sandy or Draper ” 
– Respondent, Land and Character Survey , 2020.
“Now more than ever with the rise of work from 
home situations, I think we will see the demand 
for walkability and conveyance of mixed use be a 
high priority for residents looking to move here ” – 
Respondent, Land and Character Survey , 2020.
These quotes illustrate the diverse opinions 
on economic opportunities in White City. 
The purpose of the General Plan is to balance 
competing interests to find the middle ground: 
a path forward that all residents can support.
Lifelong Communities - Page 111
Case Study of Walk Up Small-
scale Home Business
Camie and Doug faced a dilemma: how to have 
a dual-income household while always having 
one person at home to support their son with 
special needs. Living in a small town near 
popular recreation sites, visitors often asked 
them where to grab good coffee; their answer 
was a town 30 miles away. So, Camie and Doug 
had an idea. They redesigned the front room of 
their home as a cozy coffee nook, with a window 
to their kitchen. To do so, they worked closely 
with the town of Orangeville, who connected 
them to economic development expertise and 
grants and assisted them in meeting local ordi -
nances. 
Camie and Doug feel blessed to have a home-
based business that brings them joy, fits their 
financial needs, allows them to provide the 
support their son needs, connects them to the 
community, and acts as a gathering place in 
the community. Their story exemplifies how 
households have different needs and what 
local ordinances allow impacts whether certain 
households can succeed in the community. 
Orangeville’s ordinances and response to Camie 
and Doug enabled Orangeville to be a lifelong 
community for their family.
This case study exemplifies the kind of small-
scale live-work development that could be 
appropriate for 10600 South. It blends in seam -
lessly and reflects community character.
Photo credits: The Swell Utah; https://www.thecupofjoes.com/

White City General Plan - Page 112
Tapestries: A Market Approach 
to White City’s Demographics
The geospatial tech company ESRI produces 
tapestry segment analyses for various geogra -
phies across the United States. These tapestry 
segments divide the U.S. population into groups 
based on sociodemographic status, shopping 
patterns, and place of residence. Esri’s tapestry 
system classifies White City into two segments: 
“Home Improvement” (41 percent of White City’s 
population) and “Parks and Rec” (59 percent of 
the population) (ESRI, 2018).
Both tapestries have higher median household 
incomes and higher median net worths than 
the U.S. median values. However, these tapestry 
groups are careful with their money, spending 
conservatively on big ticket items and valuing 
deals. Both tend to enjoy dining out, although 
Home Improvement prefers fast food while 
Parks and Rec enjoys family dining. Overall, 
these profiles indicate a market preferring fami -
ly-friendly businesses, lower cost entertainment,  
recreation options, and home improvement 
opportunities. Small-scale home businesses that 
target these preferences may do well in White 
City.
Information credit: ESRI, 2019 A 
and ESRI, 2019 B.
◊ Enjoy working on home improvement projects.
◊ Make frequent trips to warehouse/club and home improvement stores 
in a minivan or SUV.
◊ Own a giant screen TV and premium cable; rent DVDs or watch Netflix.
◊ Very comfortable with new technology; embrace the convenience of 
completing tasks on a mobile device.
◊ Enjoy dining at Chili’s, Chick-fil-A, and KFC.
◊ Frequently buy children’s clothes and toys.
◊ Cost and practicality come first when purchasing a vehicle, which is 
likely a SUV or truck.
◊ Budget-conscious consumers stock up on staples at warehouse clubs.
◊ Pass time at home watching documentaries on Animal Planet, 
Discovery, or History channels. For an outing, they choose to dine out at 
family-style restaurants and attend movies. 
◊ Convenience is important in the kitchen; they regularly use frozen or 
packaged main course meals.
◊ Residents take advantage of local parks and recreational activities. 
Their exercise routine is a balance of home-based exercise, a session at the 
local gym, or a quick jog, swim, or run.
Lifelong Communities - Page 113
Takeaway: Encourage the reach and quality of 
high speed internet services are ways to support 
home-based businesses, boost access to infor -
mation, and increase social connectivity when 
in-person gatherings are impossible.
Takeaway: Businesses are not one-size-fits-all 
and do not have to be loud, obtrusive, and unat -
tractive: design and scale matter. Policies can 
require businesses to fit in with the character of 
White City’s built environment.*
Takeaway: Clear, creative, and strategic 
economic policies and programs can alleviate 
the underlying concerns of those opposed to 
business opportunities in White City while 
increasing opportunities for those desiring of 
them.
*For example, for the future 10600 South 
Corridor only, this plan allows small-scale mixed 
use buildings with the character and appearance 
of homes, but it does not allow strip malls, big 
box stores, or large commercial development. It 
also specifies that the rights of property owners 
are first and foremost; if an owner wants to keep 
their house a single-family home, then they 
can. Thus, if any changes would be incremental, 
which not only promote private property rights, 
but also is considered the most fiscally respon -
sible form of land use development (Marohn, 
2020). These clarifications address concerns of 
losing White City’s character and taking away 
existing residents’ homes. 
Digital Infrastructure
Digital infrastructure is the set of fundamental 
structures and facilities necessary for a society’s 
information technology capabilities, such as internet 
access and reliability. The internet is increasingly 
part of many aspects of daily life; we use the internet 
in our careers, to connect with family and friends, to 
find information, to study for school, and more. In 
this digital age, where does White City stand? 
◊ All of White City has access to the minimum 
standard for high speed internet (GSL-MSD, 
2020).
◊ All of White City has access to the average 
standard for high speed internet (GSL-MSD, 
2020).
◊ White City is not served by fiber or by 
Mbps greater than or equal to 100 at present, 
but is moving forward to allow higher speed 
broadband. (Figure 31).
Map credit: Utah Residential Broadband, Utah’s Office of Economic 
Development (GOED, 2021).
Figure 31: No Fiber Access in White City
Find definitions of internet speeds in the glossary.
White City General Plan - Page 114
Resilience and Sustainability
At their core, resilience and sustainability 
are about a holistic, systems-wide approach 
to lifelong communities. They consider how 
systems like health, the environment, and the 
economy, as well as changes in those systems, 
effect communities. 
SWOT AND APAE ANALYSES - The SWOT and APAE 
analyses showed opportunities regarding water 
supply, police presence, preservation of natural 
resources, fire hazards, disaster management 
planning, and neighborhood beautification. 
SURVEYS - Support for resilience to natural condi-
tions and environmental sustainability came 
across strongly in the surveys. For example, in 
the Transportation and Land Use Survey : 
◊ 90% said, “Clean Air” was important or 
very important;
◊ 96% said, “Managing Light and Noise 
Pollution” was important or very important; 
and
◊ 86% said, “Sustainability and Energy Effi -
ciency” was important or very important 
(2020).
Additionally, 93% said, “Protecting and Valuing 
Natural Resources, such as the Parks and Trails” 
was important or very important ( Area Needs 
and Priorities Survey,  November 2020).
EXISTING CONDITIONS- 
◊ There is a police office on 700 E & 9400 
S, and a fire station on 700 E and 10700 S.  
There is a hospital and an InstaCare on 1300 
E from 9400 S to 9800 S.
◊ There are common issues with home and 
yard care (White City Survey Comments).
◊ Water is sourced predominantly from 
the White City Water Improvement District 
(WCWID, n.d.).
◊ 93.6% of houses were constructed in the 
1950s to 70s before masonry reinforcement 
requirements existed (USCB, 2019). Now, 
considering retrofits and structures built in 
later years, 80 percent of White City houses 
are made of unreinforced masonry (SLCo, 
2019). 
◊ There are few “third places” - public places 
where anyone feels welcome and that facil -
itate positive social interactions. Big Bear 
Park and Canal Trail.
◊ White City falls in an “area of minimal 
flood risk” according to FEMA. But, the part 
of Dimple Dell that bisects White City is in a 
“special flood hazard area” (FEMA, 2020). 
◊ White City is at low risk of danger from 
radon (SLCo, 2019). 
◊ The northwestern most quarter of White 
City has a low potential for liquefaction, while 
the rest has a very low potential for liquefac -
tion (SLCo, 2019).
◊ If a magnitude 7 earthquake occurs with 
an epicenter in Salt Lake City, then models 
predict White City will have “very strong” 
shaking, at 6.3 to 12.2 inches/second (SLCo, 
2019).
◊ Some of White City’s health statistics 
indicate good health while others indicate 
poor health (Figure 32).
Lifelong Communities - Page 115
Figure 32: Resilience and Health - What are 
White City’s health indicators?
Infographic credit: Salt Lake County Health Indicators 
(SLC0 Health, 2020).
White City General Plan - Page 116
Photo Credit: Salt Lake County
Photo Credit: SandyJournal.com
Progressing Resilience and Sustainability
There are many ways to approach increasing 
resilience and sustainability in White City with 
regard to lifelong communities, and White City’s 
efforts have been ongoing. 
A recently accomplished asset to resilience and 
sustainability is the Canal Trail. It promotes active 
transportation, which supports clean air and 
environmental sustainability. It offers opportu -
nities for exercise, which, by promoting physical 
and mental wellbeing, supports individual and 
community resilience. As a public amenity, it 
provides space for residents to interact with 
each other positively. This supports social 
wellbeing, a component of both successful 
aging in community and sustainability. 
Lifelong Communities - Page 117
Takeaway: Minimizing pollution and promoting 
a clean, healthy environment are ways to support 
White City’s resilience and sustainability.
Takeaway: Maintaining positive, communicative 
relationships with other entities benefits White 
City’s health and safety, as several important 
facilities are located outside of White City’s 
borders.
Takeaway: White City has higher rates of 
disability than Salt Lake County, Utah, or the U.S. 
Understanding how the community can best 
support people with different disabilities will 
help promote resilience and wellbeing.
Takeaway: White City men over 65 years old seek 
preventative health care treatment at a higher 
rate than White City women in the same age 
category. Targeted outreach and research can 
help explain this gap.
“Safety, quiet, [and] the neighborhood feel should 
be preserved because they make the community 
who it is. Low traffic, walk-ways, [and] the gully 
should be preserved because they allow families 
and individuals to be safe and have access 
to nature to enjoy ” – Respondent, Land and 
Character Survey , 2020.
“I love encouragement of tall trees, shadows, and 
darkness at night. Walkability is a plus, and I do 
like the increased presence of sidewalks. Lots of 
nice gardens in the area”  – Respondent, Land 
and Character Survey , 2020.
“I like ordinances that make it harder to remove 
large trees, that encourage natural or artificial 
shade, that keep homes small, that encourage 
foot traffic over vehicles, and that protect 
darkness at night (so late night pedestrians don’t 
lose their dark adaptation from blinding lights). ”  
– Respondent, Area Needs and Priorities Survey , 
November 2020.
“White City has been an excellent place to raise 
children with a low crime rate and homes that are 
affordable. Even my daughter would have loved 
to live in White City after she married and had a 
family, but the homes became unaffordable even 
if desirable. ” – Respondent, Land and Character 
Survey, 2020.
Based on the data analysis and public feedback, 
some of the most prominent challenges to 
resilience and sustainability include future 
earthquakes, ongoing air quality concerns, 
worries of losing White City’s small-town feel, 
lack of universal accessibility, and preserving 
White City’s water quality. Maintaining ongoing 
efforts and developing new efforts related to 
earthquake preparedness, air pollution mitiga -
tion, social wellbeing, accessibility for people of 
all ages and abilities, and water quality protec -
tion will thus continue to be important for White 
City.  
White City General Plan - Page 118
LIFELONG COMMUNITIES 
GOALS:
LC1: Foster transparency, collabora -
tion, and clear communication among 
officials, staff, the public, and other 
agencies. 
LC2: Encourage digital infrastructure 
to support home businesses entertain -
ment, and education opportunities. 
LC3: Support small-scale local and 
home-based businesses with access to 
resources for financial assistance and/
or business training and education. 
LC4: Ensure that the built environ -
ment supports people of all ages and 
abilities, allowing safe and easy navi -
gation within the community as well 
as access to important places outside 
the community. 
LC5: Strengthen resilience through 
emergency preparedness and 
response. 
LC6: Make reasonable efforts to 
improve the quality of the natural 
environment and mitigate negative 
environmental impacts.
LC7: Maintain and make needs-appro -
priate improvements to infrastructure 
to support the resilience of the built 
environment. 
LC8: Preserve the heart of White City’s 
character. 
Piecing Together the Themes of 
Lifelong Communities 
As this chapter shows, there are many compo -
nents to lifelong communities. In White City, 
governance, aging in community, economic 
opportunities, and resilience and sustainability 
are all important pieces of lifelong communities. 
Together, these themes contribute an inter -
personal, multigenerational, economic, health, 
and environmental perspective to community 
decision-making. Using the holistic lifelong 
communities framework thus supports White 
City in strengthening its social, environmental, 
and economic conditions. While some of the 
suggested ideas stand alone, many of them 
provide guidance to the implementation of land 
use, transportation, and housing projects and 
policies. 
KEY RECOMMENDATIONS:
Work toward infrastructure implemen -
tation that supports successful aging 
in community, community resilience 
to natural hazards, and environmental 
sustainability.
Increase sales tax revenue to support 
desired projects by supporting at-home 
businesses through resources, fast 
internet speeds, updating land use 
ordinances and ecourage purchases 
online.
  - Page 119
LIFELONG COMMUNITIES 
TAKEAWAYS:
◊ Beginning an ongoing education 
and outreach program regarding 
code enforcement would encourage 
compliance, facilitate understanding, 
and increase transparency.
◊ Respect private property rights 
in how White City goes about gover -
nance; this is a core community value.
◊ Prioritizing age-friendliness in 
the design and functioning of the 
built environment not only facilitates 
safe movement and access, but also 
promotes social connection. 
◊ Continue utilizing diverse 
outreach methods (in-person, 
virtual, audio/visual, and physical 
materials) to transparently involve 
various members of the White City 
community in planning and govern -
ment processes.
◊ Encourage the reach and quality 
of high speed internet services are 
ways to support home-based busi -
nesses, boost access to information, 
and increase social connectivity when 
in-person gatherings are impossible.
◊ Businesses are not one-size-
fits-all and do not have to be loud, 
obtrusive, and unattractive: design 
and scale matter. Policies can require 
businesses to fit in with the character 
of White City’s built environment.
◊ Clear, creative, and strategic 
economic policies and programs can 
alleviate the underlying concerns of 
those opposed to business opportu -
nities in White City while increasing 
opportunities for those desiring of 
them. 
◊ Minimizing pollution and 
promoting a clean, healthy environ -
ment are ways to support White City’s 
resilience and sustainability.
◊ Maintaining positive, commu -
nicative relationships with other 
entities benefits White City’s health 
and safety, as several important facil -
ities are located outside of White 
City’s borders.
◊ White City has higher rates of 
disability than Salt Lake County, Utah, 
or the U.S. Understanding how the 
community can best support people 
with different disabilities will help 
promote resilience and wellbeing.
◊ White City men over 65 years 
old seek preventative health care 
treatment at a higher rate than White 
City women in the same age category. 
Targeted outreach and research can 
help explain this gap.
Lifelong Communities

White City General Plan  - Page 120
CHAPTER SEVEN:
LOOKING FORWARD
From the robust public feedback, Steering 
Committee discussions, and data analyses, White 
City’s goals emerged. Looking forward, how can 
White City, overtime, strive to make sure that 
these goals are being observed in the City’s day 
to day functions and larger projects? How can 
the city monitor it’s progress in providing oppor-
tunities to help these goals become a reality 
for residents that want to see them. There are 
many different strategies the White City Council 
may choose to take depending the opportuni -
ties presented to them over the years. However, 
White City is a relatively new metro township 
and, therefore, is working quickly to implement 
strategies that may already meet some the goals 
outlined.
In fact, some the things White City does on a daily, 
monthly or yearly basis continually embody 
the spirit of the goals you see in this plan. Even 
during the time this plan was worked on and 
finalized White City enacted many decisions that 
work toward reaching these goals.
This chapter reviews the goals established in 
the plan and demonstrates how residents, over 
the years, might see the plan being utilized in 
the community. 
Depending on how the Council decides to prior -
itize projects every year to meet these goals, 
they may decide to partner with outside orga -
nizations like UTA or UDOT which can, at times, 
increase the feasibility of a potential project. If the 
Council decides to prioritize projects relating to 
internal processes, like ordinance changes, they 
may choose to utilize the services provided at 
the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District 
(MSD) where the City’s Planning and Develop -
ment servicse come from.
The Council also may, throughout the years, 
seek external funding through grants, or other 
sources, to fund projects without comprimising 
the City’s budget. In fact, as of 2021, the first 
grant funded project to help meet transporta -

  - Page 121
tion goals was secured and is estimated to be 
completed in Summer 2022. Further details on 
that project are given below. 
What’s next?
Over the next five years, or until this plan is 
updated, White City will consistantly work 
towards upholding the values and goals in this 
plan. 
Who gets this done?
White City partners with agencies from all over 
the valley to look after different aspects of the 
town. The MSD is a large provider of planning 
and development services tha can accomplish 
a lot of these goals, but many other agencies 
work to keep White City a great place to live. 
Details can be found below.
When does this happen?
There is no specific timeline for the goals 
in this plan to be accomplished.  It is antic -
ipated that the community will continue to 
work towards these goals in small or large steps 
every year. See the ongoing work details below.
Photo credit: Maridene Alexander, GSL-MSD
Any project, policy, or action that may be shown 
throughout this General Plan document and 
including this chapter is a suggestion of possible 
solutions or milestones to reach the goals outlined 
in the General Plan. The Council is not obligated 
to follow through or complete any of the goals in 
this document but these suggestions were derived 
from the public engagement comments we received 
through the multi-year process of creating the 
General Plan and could be considered where or 
when resources permit.
Ongoing Work
Possible Project Ideas
Possible Policy Ideas
Other Possible Actions
Below is a detailed list of ongoing work that 
White City does every year to improve the 
community and uphold these goals.
During the public engagement process there 
were a couple of possible solutions to problems 
that would require policy changes, like changing 
city ordinances. Those have been suggested 
below. 
There may be other smaller actions that can be 
taken occasionally to help meet the goals of this 
plan which have been shown below.
White City General Plan - Page 122
LIFELONG COMMUNITIES GOALS:
LC1: Foster transparency, collaboration, and 
clear communication among officials, staff, the 
public, and other agencies. 
LC2: Encourage digital infrastructure to support 
home businesses entertainment, and education 
opportunities. 
LC3: Support small-scale local and home-
based businesses with access to resources for 
financial assistance and/or business training 
and education. 
LC4: Ensure that the built environment supports 
people of all ages and abilities, allowing safe 
and easy navigation within the community as 
well as access to important places outside the 
community. 
LC5: Strengthen resilience through emergency 
preparedness and response. 
LC6: Make reasonable efforts to improve the 
quality of the natural environment and mitigate 
negative environmental impacts.
LC7: Maintain and make needs-appropriate 
improvements to infrastructure to support the 
resilience of the built environment. 
LC8: Preserve the heart of White City’s character. 
LAND USE GOALS:
LU1: Ensure that effective land use planning 
is balanced with preserving the freedom and 
rights of individual landowners.
LU2: Maintain and promote White City’s neigh -
borhood-scale housing character (primarily 
detached residences) while also promoting a 
quality of life that attracts and sustains new 
families and the housing needs of the Salt Lake 
Valley. 
LU3: Promote a sense of pride and identity 
in the community through maintaining 
and enhancing place-making infrastructure. 
LU4: Establish maintenance standards that 
continue to make White City a distinctly scenic, 
fun and appealing place to live and visit. 
TRANSPORTATION GOALS:
T1: Encourage good access to and smooth, safe 
transitions between key locations within and 
outside of White City.
T2: Support transportation areas becoming 
more aesthetically pleasing, environmentally 
friendly, culturally interesting, and health-con -
scious.
T3: Achieve well-maintained transportation 
infrastructure.
T4: Support adequate and safe parking.
  - Page 123
Ongoing Work
White City and it’s partners perform jobs every year to meet these goals.
Providing planning commissioners with 
annual training to ensure that commissioners 
make data-backed, fiscally responsible, and 
legally viable land use recommendations.
Providing elected and appointed officials with 
data and best practices on land use planning, 
via a presentation and accompanying report 
every even year. 
Support the importance of Dimple Dell 
Regional Park to Salt Lake County Parks and 
Recreation and collaborating to solve issues 
and preserve the parks beauty.
Maintain or improve the existing parks level of 
service.
Auditing and updating land use codes and 
zoning ordinances to reflect White City’s needs 
and preferences as outlined in this General 
Plan.
Meet as needed with Sandy City 
transportation engineers and planners to 
coordinate on projects that affect both 
communities.
Coordinate with UTA and UDOT regarding 
White City’s transportation needs.
Participate in WFRC regional meetings and 
working groups, actively sharing White City’s 
transportation needs with others as well as 
bringing back regional perspectives and ideas 
to White City.
Advocate for Engineering and Public Works 
projects to consider impacts on connectivity, 
The Planning Commission receives 
training every year from the MSD, legal 
advisors, or state or county agencies as 
required by state law.
The MSD provides the Council and 
Planing Commission all current data and 
best pratices for land use planning in all 
reports and at public meetings. 
The long range planning department at 
the MSD is currently working on updating 
ordinances and removing zones that are 
not compatible with the General Plan. 
The MTC and MSD staff collaborate with 
all agencies in the valley on community 
improvement initiatives and will continue 
to work together to solve problems.
White City is a strong partner with Salt 
Lake County Parks and Rec. that oversee 
and maintain parks level service and WC 
sits on the committee to decide future 
plans for Dimple Dell Park
White City General Plan - Page 124
including pedestrian connectivity, and work 
toward maintaining or improving existing 
connectivity.
Advocate for preventative maintenance on 
gutters, drains, and other transportation 
infrastructure.
Reach out to Engineering and Public Works 
about their system for scheduling road 
repairs and maintenance, and support 
communication of this system to residents.
Prioritize maintenance of existing 
infrastructure before the construction of new 
infrastructure. Reach out to residents regularly 
for input on maintenance needs and work with 
staff to include maintenance projects in the 
Capital Improvements Plan.
Advocate for no parking areas adjacent to 
crosswalks by schools to improve visibility and 
enhance safety; develop this standard into a 
parking ordinance.
Support air quality improvement by 
prioritizing land use changes and 
infrastructure improvements that increase the 
feasibility of active transportation and public 
transit.
Meet with Engineering to share public 
feedback regarding increased street lighting, 
sidewalk maintenance, new sidewalks, 
crosswalks, street calming measures, and other 
streetscape infrastructure, as the first step 
toward addressing issues and capitalizing on 
opportunities.
Ongoing Work
The MSD works with the Salt Lake County 
Public Works department on projects 
relating to White City infrastructure like 
road improvements, lighting and pedes-
trian facilities. The Council directs the 
Public Works Department on priority 
projects for each year.
  - Page 125
Work with Engineering and Public Works to 
apply for grants to create, identify locations 
for, and install signage that identifies White 
City.
Pursue $60,000 funding from UDOT Technical 
Planning Assistance Grant for a Walk White 
City study.
In a Walk White City study, audit speed 
limits and analyze compatibility of streets’  
speeds and pedestrian usage, to inform 
recommendations on adjustments to improve 
safety.
In a Walk White City study, audit speed 
limits and analyze compatibility of streets’  
speeds and pedestrian usage, to inform 
recommendations on adjustments to improve 
safety.
In a Walk White City study, audit the sidewalk 
network for gaps in connections and then 
prioritize new sidewalks and sidewalk 
maintenance projects.
In a Walk White City study, identify needed 
crosswalks and prioritize crosswalk completion 
and improvements by pedestrian usage, 
adjacent traffic volume, and school children 
usage.
Support community efforts to accomplish 
the annual Southeast Township Day and 
other community-wide events and host an 
informational booth on planning projects at 
these events.
Support MTC and PC in a semiannual review of 
the General Plan.
Ongoing Work
The Walk White City Projects is fully 
funded and underway and is estimated to 
be done in July 2022! This will help identify 
possible areas to improve walking in 
White City. 
White City General Plan - Page 126
Conduct an annual report of accomplishments 
on the status of this General Plan’s Work 
Program.
Continue maintaining an up-to-date, online 
hub of planning information and resources 
tailored to White City.
Promote the MSD Citizen Problem Reporter.
Participate in a MSD-hosted education 
and outreach program that focuses on one 
planning theme per month and provides 
opportunities for the community to learn, 
interact, collaborate, and provide feedback.
Collaborate with SLCo Economic Development 
and internet service providers to improve 
services in White City, especially to expand 
fiber optic access.
Ongoing Work
Possible Project Ideas
The MSD provides outreach and 
education to all White City residents 
online and in-person and will continue 
to educate the public regarding 
property maintenance and code 
enforcement, updates on General Plan 
or other planning work, providing 
online services, and providing educa-
tional materials and opportunities. 
The MTC is currently working with internet 
service provides to expand services in 
White City. The MSD is also performing 
a digital infrastructure study which will 
analyze where more services or other 
resources can be expanded or improved.
Provide a report on potential locations for and 
costs of various place-making strategies in White 
City to the community, including potential grants 
to support such projects.
Identify desired micro park locations and activ -
ities along the Canal Trail and work toward an 
implementation plan.
For streetscape design projects, advocate for 
waterwise and other environmentally friendly 
methods.
For transportation infrastructure projects, 
advocate for the use of recycled and/or lower 
impact materials.
Meet with Engineering to share public feedback 
regarding Canal Trail improvements and concerns.
Investigate strategies for increasing privacy and 
clearly designating private versus public space 
along the Canal Trail and present strategies to 
MTC .
Investigate public transportation linkages 
between critical points in White City and the 
two Sandy Trax stations and develop a plan to 
progress implementation.
The council may, at times, be given the opportunity or funding to seek out new projects that could 
promote the goals in this plan. Some projects have been suggested below that may be worked on when 
resources and capacity permit.
  - Page 127
Audit bicyclist needs and advocate for bicycle 
lanes and/or other bicyclist infrastructure on 
streets where appropriate.
Identify bike-safe passages through public access 
areas (to parks, trails, schools, and commercial 
areas near White City’s borders).
Work with Engineering and Public Works to 
identify specific lighting needs in White City 
and target installation to accomplish goals of 
increasing pedestrian and vehicular safety (such 
as motion-censored lighting on pedestrian paths, 
lighting at major intersections, etc.).
Work with UTA to identify and implement public 
transportation boarding site enhancements that 
encourage ridership and enhance safety.
Produce a RFP to design a wayfinding system for 
White City that showcases White City’s identity 
while improving navigation for pedestrians, 
cyclists, public transport users, and drivers 
(including clear parking guides), and invite local 
artists via the Utah Arts Alliance to collaborate on 
the design.
Partner with community organizations to sponsor 
signs on the Canal Trail.
Advocate for age and ability friendly infrastruc -
ture choices, such as adequate crosswalk times, 
wheelchair navigable sidewalks and corners, 
sitting areas at parks and along trails, and picnic 
tables at parks that are wheelchair friendly.
Actively engage older adults in planning 
processes to understand the aging perspective.
Advocate for age and ability friendly transporta -
tion choices to regional entities.
Update ordinances to include principles of 
lifelong and livable communities.
Include universal design standards in design 
guidelines for small-scale mixed use develop -
ment and IADUs.
Utilize existing and emerging technologies to 
support transparency among PDS, MTC, PC, and 
White City residents.
Use toolboxes from Tactical Urbanism and the 
Better Block Foundation to help achieve desired 
infrastructure changes incrementally and fiscally 
responsibly.
Use equity framework to evaluate the deci -
sion-making and prioritizing of projects.
Investigate barriers to participation in planning 
processes and develop an action plan to reduce 
these.
Explore options to purchase and put up 
community bulletin boards, one north of Dimple 
Dell and one south of Dimple Dell, for meeting 
postings, community events, directions to 
municipal websites, and other key community 
information.
Support a community-wide contest to redesign 
the White City logo.
Advocate for UPD and UFA to train law enforce -
ment officials and first responders to detect and 
report elder abuse.
Advocate for UPD and UFA to train law enforce -
ment officials and first responders to respond 
effectively to persons with Autism, persons with 
intellectual disabilities, and persons with physical 
disabilities in emergency situations.
Encourage Neighborhood Watch Programs.
Discuss with Engineering and Public Utilities 
the importance and feasibility of using water 
sensitive infrastructure and waterwise land -
scaping practices in park strips and public spaces 
to protect the water supply.
Work with UPD and Engineering to identify 
common speeding areas and investigate ways to 
enforce appropriate vehicle speeds.
Investigate the possibility of expanding dumpster 
services, whether to twice annually or to another 
preferred setup.
White City General Plan - Page 128
Work with White City Water Improvement 
District to develop educational brochures about 
waterwise landscaping in yards and water 
sensitive home practices and then distribute 
biennially.
Investigate the possibility of expanding the 
Fix the Bricks initiative to include unreinforced 
masonry dwellings in White City.
Investigate the possibility of a community-wide 
partnership with an earthquake insurance 
provider.
Investigate the possibility of creating a shared 
community tool shed to support home mainte -
nance efforts and mitigate cost barriers.
Promote workforce development programs and 
volunteer opportunities for and by older adults.
Support the creation of the SLCo Economic Devel-
opment’s Business Retention and Expansion 
program, and link residents to it for support for 
their home-based businesses.
Work with South Valley Chamber of Commerce to 
promote White City’s at-home businesses.
Partner with South Valley Chamber of Commerce 
to connect business owners, improve workforce 
training, and provide educational opportunities.
Develop and then distribute resources for local 
business owners, including webinars, tips, home 
business best practices, and more. Create and 
maintain an online hub with similar information.
Distribute information on high speed internet 
options.
  - Page 129
Rezone Bear Park into an open space/park zone 
to better ensure its long-term preservation.
Audit and update the ordinances as they relate 
to code enforcement, property maintenance, and 
parking to address issues of compliance.
Update sign ordinance to ensure compatibility 
with White City’s character areas.
Possible Policy Ideas
The council may, at times, choose to enact policy changes to better promote the goals in this plan. All 
policy changes will follow a formal and rigorous public process as required by state code. Depending on 
the policy some further public engagement strategies may be utilized in order to be completely trans -
parent with residents of White City.
Other Possible Actions
There are other changes or actions the council may choose to do in order to better accomplish these goals 
that may be simple in scope like educating the public on various topics of code enforcement, building 
permits, business resources etc. These do not necessarily involve additional funding or budgeting but may 
be merely a change in staff time to focus on other areas. The MSD can assist in many of these potential 
actions. 
Develop and then distribute educational infor -
mation (brochures, website content, etc.) about 
code enforcement regulations and strategies to 
accomplish compliance.
Develop and then share a guide that clearly 
communicates standards and regulations about 
public engagement in various planning and 
government processes (ordinance ammendment 
versus General Plan versus new resolution, etc.).
Host an educational open house regarding code 
enforcement and building permitting rules, regu-
lations, and processes.
Work with the Utah Aging Alliance to provide 
resources for White City residents on aging adult 
needs and opportunities, incorporate age-friendly 
practices to government practices and the built 
environment, and provide a platform for residents 
to share experiences.
Develop and then distribute educational infor -
mation (brochures, website content, etc.) about 
reinforced masonry, energy efficiency, and home 
improvement, including any programs or grants 
that can aid residents in such efforts.
Develop and then distribute educational infor -
mation (brochures, website content, etc.) about 
firesafe landscaping and defensible yards, 
especially to residences bordering Dimple Dell 
Regional park.
White City General Plan  - Page 130
CHAPTER EIGHT:
REFERENCES & RESOURCES
AARP (n.d.). “Great Places for People of All Ages. ” AARP Livable Communities. https://www.aarp.org/livable-communities/
about/
Congress for the New Urbanism (CNU) (n.d.). “Street Networks 101. ” https://www.cnu.org/our-projects/street-networks/
street-networks-101
Davoudi, S. (2012). Resilience: A Bridging Concept or a Dead End? Planning Theory & Practice, 13 (2): 299-333.
Drive-Safely. (n.d.). “Driving Statistics: The Cold Hard Facts about the Dangers of Driving. ” https://www.drive-safely.net/
driving-statistics/
ESRI Business Analyst (ESRI) (2018). Tapestry Segmentation Area Profile. “White City, Utah. ”
ESRI Business Analyst (ESRI) (2019 A). Tapestry Segment. “Home Improvement. ”
ESRI Business Analyst (ESRI) (2019 B). Tapestry Segment. “Parks and Rec. ”
FEMA (2020). “Flood Map Service Center: White City, Utah. ” https://msc.fema.gov/portal/search?AddressQuery=White%20
City%2C%20Utah#searchresultsanchor
Gössling, S., Choi, A., Dekker, K. & Metzler, D. (2019). “The Social Cost of Automobility, Cycling and Walking in the European 
Union. ” Ecological Economics. 158. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/330184791_The_Social_Cost_of_Automo -
bility_Cycling_and_Walking_in_the_European_Union
Grand Rapids, Michigan (GR, M) (2012). “Grant Rapids, Michigan Complete Streets. ” http://www.mtpa-mi.org/downloads/
chris_zull_grand_rapids_complete_streets_mtpa.pdf
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSL-MSD) (2019 A). “Performance Dashboard. ” https://ce-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.
com/
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSL-MSD) (2019 B). “White City Technical Assessment. ” 
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSL-MSD) (2019 C). “Zoning Map. ” https://gslmsd.maps.arcgis.com/apps/
View/index.html?appid=6866ecc25f6840edb44e0cb08ba37bc8
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSL-MSD) (2020). “Preliminary Broadband Feasibility Study. ” Prepared by 
Todd Andersen, Municipal Economic Development Coordinator.
 - Page 131
Haskell, W.L., Blair, S.N., and Hill, J.O. (2009). Physical activity: health outcomes and importance for public health policy. 
Prev Med, 49(4), 280-282. 
INRIX, Inc (2018). “The Cost of Driving in the U.S. ” https://inrix.com/resources/inrix-cost-of-driving-infographic-us/
International Association for Public Participation (IAP2) (2018). “IAP2 Spectrum of Public Participation. ” https://cdn.ymaws.
com/www.iap2.org/resource/resmgr/pillars/Spectrum_8.5x11_Print.pdf
Lehigh Valley Planning Commission (2011). “Street Connectivity: Guidance Document. ” https://lvpc.org/pdf/streetCon -
nectivity.pdf
Lewis, D. (n.d.). “Native Americans in Utah. ” Utah History Encyclopedia. https://www.uen.org/utah_history_encyclope -
dia/n/NATIVE_AMERICANS.shtml
Litman, T. (2020, June). Victoria Transport Policy Institute. “Evaluating Active Transport Benefits and Costs. ” https://www.
vtpi.org/nmt-tdm.pdf
Marohn, Charles (2020). Strong Towns: A Bottom-Up Revolution to Rebuild American Prosperity. John Wiley & Sons: 
Hoboken, New York 
Municipal Code (Muni Code) (2018). “White City Municipal Code: Titles 1- 19. ” https://whitecity.municipalcodeonline.com/
book?type=ordinances#name=Preface
Municipal Incorporation, 10-2a-4 (2015). https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title10/Chapter2A/10-2a-P4.html?v=C10-
2a-P4_2015051220150512
Provisions Applicable to Different Types of Local Districts (Provisions), Utah State Code 17B-2a-11 (2014). https://le.utah.
gov/xcode/Title17B/Chapter2a/17B-2a-P11.html
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA), Utah State Code 10-9a-401 (2019). https://le.utah.gov/
xcode/Title10/Chapter9A/10-9a-S401.html?v=C10-9a-S401_2019051420190514
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act (LUDMA), Utah State Code 10-9a-403 (2020). https://le.utah.gov/
xcode/Title10/Chapter9A/10-9a-S403.html
Napier, M. (2011). Walking to School: Community design and child and parent barriers. Journal of Environmental Psychology.
National Disability Authority (NDA) (n.d.). “The 7 Principles. ” Center for Excellence in Universal Design. http://universalde -
sign.ie/what-is-universal-design/the-7-principles/the-7-principles.html
National Park Service (NPS) (2017). “The Great Basin. ” https://www.nps.gov/grba/planyourvisit/the-great-basin.htm
National Recreation and Park Association (NRPA) (n.d.). “NRPA Park Metrics. ” https://www.nrpa.org/publications-research/
ParkMetrics/
White City General Plan - Page 132
Notarianni, P . (n.d.). “Mining. ” Utah History Encyclopedia. https://www.uen.org/utah_history_encyclopedia/m/MINING.
shtml
Rails-to-Trails Conservancy (n.d.). “About Rails-to-Trails Conservancy. ” https://www.railstotrails.org/about/
Salt Lake County (SLCo) (2019). “Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan. ” Jurisdictional Annex: White City Metro 
Township. https://www.slcoem.org/current-ongoing-projects and https://2a9d622e-6ced-4f67-913c-2cca3d1d3461.
filesusr.com/ugd/22f580_1ab1800491bb4237b00b19043b39314e.pdf
Salt Lake County (SLCo) (n.d. A). “History of Salt Lake County. ” https://slco.org/county-history/#:~:text=The%20
population%20of%20the%20County%20was%20898%2C387.
Salt Lake County (SLCo) (n.d. B). Public Works-Engineering. https://slco.org/engineering/
Salt Lake County Engineering and Avenue Consultants (SLCo Engineering & Avenue) (2020, April). “Existing Conditions. ” 
Sego Lily Corridor Study.
Salt Lake County Engineering and Avenue Consultants (SLCo Engineering & Avenue) (2020, June). “Project Overview for 
Council. ” Sego Lily Corridor Study. 
Salt Lake County Health Department (SLCo Health) (2020). “Health Indicators. ” White City, Utah. http://www.healthysalt -
lake.org/?module=indicators&controller=index&action=indicatorsearch&doSearch=1&showComparisons=1&l=201375
Salt Lake County Surveyor’s Office (1933). “1933 Election Map. ” https://slco.org/globalassets/1-site-files/surveyor/
mapping-services/electiondistrictandprecinctmap_1933.pdf
Salt Lake County Surveyor’s Office (1951). “1951 Election Map. ” https://slco.org/globalassets/1-site-files/surveyor/
mapping-services/electiondistrictmap_1951.pdf
Senate Bill 53 (1997). “Redevelopment Agency Amendments. ” 17A-2-1202 Definitions: Blight. https://le.utah.gov/~1997/
bills/sbillint/SB0053S2.htm
Sisson, P . (2019, June). “Why building walkable cities is the key to economic success. ” Curbed. https://archive.curbed.
com/2019/6/24/18715939/real-estate-development-walkable-urbanism
Speck, J. (2013). “4 ways to make a city more walkable. ” TedxMidAtlantic, Ted.com. https://www.ted.com/talks/jeff_
speck_4_ways_to_make_a_city_more_walkable?language=en
State of Utah Natural Resources and Utah State University (UNR & USU) (2001). “Creating Landscapes for Wildlife: a guide 
for back yards in Utah. ” State of Utah Natural Resources – Division of Wildlife Resources and Utah State University – Coop -
erative Extension Service and department of Landscape Architecture and Environmental Planning. https://wildlife.utah.
gov/pdf/landscapingforwildlife.pdf 
United States Census Bureau (USCB) (2017). “On the Map, Job Counts by Home of White City. ” White City, Utah.
  - Page 133
United States Census Bureau (USCB) (2018). “American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate. ” White City, Utah.
United States Census Bureau (USCB) (2019). “American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate. ” White City, Utah.
Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). (n.d. A). Functional Classification Maps. https://www.udot.utah.gov/
main/f?p=100:pg:0::::V,T:,1224
Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). (n.d. C). “Vision and Mission. ” http://www.udot.utah.gov/strategic-direction/
Utah Division of Natural Resources (UDNR) (2020). “Wildfire Risk Assessment Portal Public Viewer. ” https://wildfirerisk.utah.
gov/Map/Public/#risk
Utah Governor’s Office of Economic Development (UGOED) (2021). “Utah Residential Broadband Map. ” https://mapserv.
utah.gov/broadband/
Utah Transit Authority (UTA). (n.d. A). “Mission and Vision. ” https://rideuta.com/About-UTA/Mission-and-Vision
Utah Transit Authority (UTA). (n.d. B). “UTA on Demand by Via. ” https://www.rideuta.com/Services/UTA-on-Demand-by-Via
UtahRails.net (2019). “Railroads in Little Cottonwood Canyon. ” https://utahrails.net/articles/little-cottonwood.php
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC). (2019). “Wasatch Choice 2050. ” https://wfrc.org/vision-plans/wasatch-choice-2050/
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC). (n.d.). “Access to Opportunities. ” https://wfrc.org/maps-data/access-to-opportu -
nities/#1591727105989-c5674695-3cbe
White City (n.d.). “White City History. ” https://www.whitecity-ut.org/community/page/white-city-history#:~:tex -
t=White%20City%20was%20started%20by,in%20the%20fifties%20and%20sixties.
White City Water Improvement District (WCWID) (n.d.). https://wcwid.org/
White City General Plan - Page 134
CHAPTER NINE:
Appendix
Glossary
Accessibility: Regarding transportation: the 
ability to access important destinations in a 
reasonable time frame. Also refers to the ability 
of any person, regardless of ability or age, to 
utilize a space or travel through an area.
Active Transportation: Any form of mobility 
achieved solely through human power – most 
commonly, walking and biking.
ADA: Americans with Disabilities Act (1990). 
Offers critical protections for persons with disabil-
ities. ADA legislation also has implications for 
public right-of-way design, including sidewalk 
width, curb ramps, signals, and maintenance. 
All new construction and major renovations or 
alterations are required to comply with ADA 
standards. 
IADU/Accessory Dwelling Unit:  A small resi -
dential unit also knows as a granny flat, in-law 
unit, backyard cottage, or basement apartment. 
IADUs are one way to introduce affordable 
housing options into a single-family neighbor -
hood without changing the character of the 
neighborhood.
Aging in Place: The ability for people of any age 
to live healthy, happy, and independent lives in 
their residence and in their community; they do 
not have to move out because of age-related 
factors.
APAE Analysis: The act of building consensus 
on items that a group or community would like 
to ‘Achieve, Preserve, Avoid, or Eliminate’ . The 
APAE Analysis for White City was conducted at a 
public workshop in January of 2019. 
Blight: “In general, the undesirable appear -
ance or aesthetic quality of a site, including 
vandalism, disrepair, or abandonment, leading to 
a reduction in the development and investment 
in the surrounding area. Where community rede-
velopment laws require that an area is declared 
‘blighted’ to receive redevelopment funds, these 
laws contain specific language to define blight” 
(Greenbelt Alliance).
Broadband: “High-speed internet access that is 
always on and faster than the traditional dial-up 
access” (Federal Communications Commis -
sion). Broadband connections can be provided 
using various technologies: Digital Subscriber 
Lines (DSL), Cable Modems, and Fiber are three 
popular types.
Built Environment: All of the human-con -
structed or manipulated surroundings, such as 
roads, buildings, utility infrastructure, parks, and 
farms. 
  - Page 135
Character Area: Specific geographic areas that 
have unique or special characteristics, have 
potential to evolve into a unique area when 
provided specific guidance, or require attention 
suitable to its uniqueness. Each character area 
has its own set of zoning considerations. There 
are five total character areas in White City. 
Code Enforcement: The following of ordinances 
related to the built environment, especially the 
upkeep of property as related to the commu -
nity’s health and safety. Code enforcement 
promotes creating and maintaining beautiful 
communities with sustained property values 
and low crime rates. 
Complete Street:  A street whose design and 
function allow safe access and use for all modes 
of travel. Pedestrians, cyclists, and vehicle drivers 
of any age or ability can move along or across 
the street safely.
Connectivity : The ability to travel more as the 
crow flies: to reach more destinations.
Density: Simply put, the number of units in a 
given land area. Higher density development 
supports services such as dining and transit. But, 
higher densities may increase traffic congestion 
and noise. While low density development may 
lead to quieter residential streets, it can make 
it difficult for municipalities to provide services 
and results in land being used up faster. 
◊ Gross Density : Total dwelling units 
divided by total acreage in the area.
◊ Net Density : Total dwelling units divided 
by total acreage not counting acreage taken 
up by roads and utilities.
◊ Standard Density Ranges :
0-3 dwelling units per acre – VERY LOW
3-7 dwelling units per acre – LOW
7-10 dwelling units per acre – LOW-  
MEDIUM
10-20 dwelling units per acre – MEDIUM
20-50 dwelling units per acre – MEDIUM-HIGH
> 50 dwelling units per acre – HIGH
Digital Infrastructure : The set of fundamental 
structures and facilities necessary for a society’s 
information technology capabilities, such as 
internet access and reliability.
Esri Tapestry Groups:  “Tapestry segmenta -
tion provides an accurate, detailed description 
of America's neighborhoods—U.S. residential 
areas are divided into 67 distinctive segments 
based on their socioeconomic and demo -
graphic composition” (Esri, 2020). Planners use 
tapestries to understand demographics and 
spending patterns of subsets of a community 
population. White City has two primary tapestry 
groups: 1) Parks and Rec and 2) Home Improve -
ment. These terms, as well of the characteristics 
of each group, come directly from Esri and may 
not represent how those groups see or refer to 
themselves. 
White City General Plan - Page 136
Esri: Esri is an international supplier of 
geographic information systems software, web 
GIS, and geodatabase management applications. 
They are also a large producer of demographic 
data for communities and offer a wide range 
of demographic variables. This data is updated 
yearly and, in some cases, is more reliable then 
census data. 
Eyes on the Street: A planning concept intro -
duced by Jane Jacobs that relates the level of 
street activity and visibility to the sense of safety 
people have when they are on the street. For 
example, streets lined with buildings with glass 
windows allow many “eyes” to view the street; 
this makes street goers feel that the community 
is aware of the street and its happenings, thus 
keeping them safe. Additionally, streets with 
high pedestrian use also have more “eyes, ” which 
makes people feel safe, which in turn encour -
ages more people to be out on the street.
Fiber: A technology that provides broadband 
connection by using fiber optics and that 
operates faster than other current broadband 
technologies. “Fiber optic technology converts 
electrical signals carrying data to light and sends 
the light through transparennt glass fibers about 
the diameter of a human hair” (Federal Commu -
nications Commission). Fiber typically has 250 
Mbps dowload and upload speeds.
Floor Area Ratio: FAR.  A measurement repre -
senting the floor area of a building in relation to 
the area of the site that the building occupies. It 
can be expressed as a ratio or a decimal number. 
FAR guidelines are applied on a parcel-by-parcel 
basis: each parcel has to meet its designated FAR 
(as opposed to a group of parcels averaging out 
to the designated FAR). 
Functional Classification:  A system for defining 
streets based on anticipated traffic throughput 
and access to property; it uses four categories: 
freeway, arterial, collector, and local.
General Plan Steering Committee: GPSC. The 
GPSC was a group of volunteers, appointed 
by the Mayor, to work closely with staff during 
the general planning process. The GPSC met 
throughout the general planning process, and 
meetings were open to the public. 
Governance: How a community structures its 
rules, regulations, norms, and actions.
High-Speed Internet:  Internet that supports 
at minimum a 25 Mbps (megabits per second) 
download speed and 3 Mbps upload speed.
Human-scale:  A description of the dimensions 
of the built environment. It reflects an environ -
ment that prioritizes the experience of a person 
walking in the area; the building and street 
designs enhance feelings of safety and comfort 
in pedestrians. Design choices such as building 
setbacks, building heights, building materials, 
and transparency shape whether an area feels 
scaled to people (versus scaled to automobiles, 
industry, etc.).
IAP2: International Association for Public 
Participation. An organization that promotes 
public participation in decision-making and 
has established the go-to standard for types of 
public engagement, called the IAP2 Spectrum 
for Public Participation. 
  - Page 137
Land Use: A characterization of land based on 
the types of uses that are occurring there. Land 
use differs from zoning, which describes what is 
allowed on a site by code. Zoning and land use 
may not always match. For example, a re-zone of 
a subdivision may have changed the permitted 
uses on the land from residential to commer -
cial. The primary land use in that area will still 
be residential. But if someone tries to develop 
in that area in the future, they will have to build 
commercial property in compliance with the 
zoning code. 
Level of Service: A measure of how a community 
is served by park and open space. It is calcu -
lated by the number of acres of park and open 
space per the number of people. The minimum 
adequate level of service is considered 10 acres 
per 1,000 people.
Lifelong Community:  A community where 
people can live safely, independently, and 
comfortably throughout all life stages, from 
childhood to retirement age and beyond.
Median: A method of determining the typical 
amount in a group of numbers. The median 
is the middle number when you line up all 
numbers from lowest to highest; for example, 7 
is the median of this list: 0.5, 2, 7, 8, 20. 
Metro Townships: There are five Metro 
Townships in Salt Lake County, White City being 
one of them. These Metro Townships are inde -
pendent municipalities with their own elected 
government (Mayor and Council). The Metro 
Townships fund the MSD, which provides each 
of the Metro Townships with services, including 
planning and development. Metro Townships 
have discretion over spending of sales tax 
revenue, but not property tax revenue. 
Micromobility : Forms of mobility that operate 
at lower speeds (typically below 15mph), are 
used for shorter distances (typically under five 
miles), and cost much less than buses, personal 
automobiles, or rail. Shared electric scooters and 
bikes are two forms of micromobility.
Mixed-Use: Development that combines two 
or more use categories (residential, commercial, 
industrial, civic/institution). The mixing of uses 
can occur vertically (different uses on different 
floors of the same building) or horizontally 
(different uses on the same property or block). 
Mixed use development generally leads to a 
more walkable built environment. Mixed use 
can range in scales and be specifically tailored 
to fit in with a community’s character and meet 
a community’s needs.
Mobility: The ability to travel from point A to 
point B.
White City General Plan - Page 138
Moderate Income Housing:  According to 
Utah Code, “housing occupied or reserved 
for occupancy by households with a gross 
household income equal to or less than 80% 
of the median gross income for households of 
the same size in the county in which the city is 
located. ” 
MSD/GSL-MSD: The Greater Salt Lake 
Municipal Services District. The MSD was 
established in 2015 by the Salt Lake County 
Council. It provides services, such as planning 
and development, to its member communities, 
including the five Metro Townships, the Town of 
Brighton, and unincorporated areas of Salt Lake 
County. The MSD helps to identify the needs of 
its member communities and uses funding to 
help support those needs. 
Neighborhood-scale:  A description of the 
dimensions of the built environment; it reflects 
older, traditional neighborhood qualities, such 
as shorter building heights, smaller lots, and 
buildings oriented to the street. 
Ordinance: A law or regulation adopted by 
a public agency – in this case, by White City 
Council.
Parcel: A piece of real property with defined 
borders that is usually considered a unit for 
development purposes.
Park Strip:  The portion of land in the public 
right-of-way between the front of a sidewalk 
and the rear of a curb.  
Pedestrian Infrastructure:  Infrastructure that 
makes biking and walking viable modes of trans-
portation. 
Permitted Use: A use of land expressively autho-
rized in a zone.
Place-making : A people-centered approach 
that utilizes urban design, creativity, and a 
community’s identity to enhance public spaces.
Public Hearing:  A meeting open to the public 
that requires 10 days’ notice and is governed 
largely by the Land Use and Development Act. 
This type of meeting provides the public with the 
opportunity to provide input on a specific item. 
General Plan adoptions, General Plan amend -
ments, the adoption of land use ordinances, and 
the adoption of zoning maps all require public 
hearings.
Public Meeting:  A meeting open to the public 
that requires 24 hours’ notice and is governed 
largely by the Open and Public Meetings Act. 
General Plan Steering Committee Meetings 
and regular Planning Commission and Council 
meetings fall into this category.
Public Right of Way: Land intended to be used 
or occupied by public use facilities. For example, 
the area occupied by public roads and the area 
between these roads and the outer edge of the 
sidewalk; this area is public property and open 
to public use. It is not considered part of the 
lot size of private properties adjacent to the 
sidewalk and/or public road.
Resilience: The ability for complex systems to 
change, adapt, and transform, in positive ways 
and within a reasonable timeframe, following 
hardships and disasters (adapted from Davoudi, 
2012).
  - Page 139
Rezoning: An amendment to a communi -
ty’s zoning map or zoning ordinance text that 
changes the nature, density, or intensity of the 
uses of the land in an area.
Safe Routes to School:  A program that encour -
ages students to walk and bike to school, through 
infrastructure improvements, safety education, 
incentives, increased enforcement and other 
means. These programs can be carried out by a 
department of transportation (such as UDOT), 
a metropolitan planning organization (such as 
WFRC), a local government (such as White City), 
a school district (such as Canyon Schools), or a 
school (such as Alta View Elementary). 
Survey: A poll consisting of prompts and 
questions. Planning staff used surveys to under -
stand opinions of the public and guide goals and 
actions in the General Plan. All surveys used in 
this plan were advertised via a mailed postcard 
to every residence as well as on websites and 
social media accounts.
Sustainability : Meeting the economic, social, 
and environmental needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations 
to meet those same needs.
SWOT Analysis: The act of building consensus 
on items that a group or community perceives 
as ‘Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, or 
Threats’ . The SWOT Analysis for White City was 
conducted at a public workshop in January of 
2019. 
Third Place: Refers to the place where people 
spend time between their home (‘first’ place) 
and work (‘second’ place). These can be anything 
from social activities, education, or daily life.
Total Market Value:  (as used in the Land Use 
Chapter) represents Salt Lake County’s 2018 
total assessed value of the property (land and 
building). Assessed value is not the same as 
market value (i.e. what a home would sell for). 
This assessment was conducted by the Wasatch 
Front Regional Council.
Traffic Calming: Methods that influence slower 
automobile speeds, such as street trees, narrow
Transparency: An urban design concept about 
the percentage of a building front that a passerby 
can see through; usually this is achieved through 
windows/glass. High transparency feels safer 
and more comfortable to pedestrians.
Typological Classification:  A system for 
defining streets. This system is defined by each 
community to suit its needs. When defining 
streets, it accounts for surrounding land use, 
considers active transportation needs, and 
includes street design (the Functional Classifica -
tion system does not do these three things).
UDOT: The Utah Department of Transporta -
tion. UDOT has authority over state roads. UDOT 
also works closely with counties and municipal -
ities on large projects related to transit or active 
transportation. 
Universal Design : Design of the built environ -
ment that supports people of various abilities. 
Such design allows equitable use, allows flex -
ibility in use, is simple and intuitive to use, 
communicates perceptible information, has a 
tolerance for error, requires low physical effort, 
and adequate size and space for approach and 
use.
White City General Plan - Page 140
UTA: The Utah Transit Authority. UTA provides 
transit, including bus, TRAX line, Front Runner, 
and on-demand services to the Wasatch Region. 
Utah Code 10-9a:  (Also known as LUDMA 
– Municipal Land Use, Development, and 
Management Act) Utah Code 10-9a defines a 
municipality’s ability to create and enact land 
use regulations. LUDMA is also the legislation 
that authorizes White City Metro Township to be 
able to craft and adopt this General Plan. 
Utah Public Notice Website: A website that 
hosts the agendas and meeting notices for 
public meetings in Utah for local, county, and 
state governments. Posting agendas and notices 
on this website is part of noticing requirements 
for public hearings and meetings.
Walkability: The ability to have a walking expe -
rience that meets four criteria: it is functional 
(physical infrastructure supports walking), safe 
(pedestrians are protected from vehicles, the 
street is well-lit), comfortable  (shade keeps the 
street from being too hot), and interesting (there 
is a reason to walk there, such as a restaurant). 
Waterwise: A description of the water needs of 
plants; waterwise plants evolved in areas with 
lower precipitation and require less water during 
the growing season than traditional lawn plants.
WFRC: Wasatch Front Regional Council. WFRC 
is the metropolitan planning organization (MPO) 
for Box Elder, Davis, Morgan, Salt Lake, Tooele, 
and Weber counties. They provide a Regional 
Transportation Plan every four years. WFRC also 
provides guidance to municipalities, and admin -
isters funding through grant programs. 
White City Metro Township Council: WCC. 
(Also White City Council or The Council).  The 
WCC is the governing body of White City. There 
are five members of the Council, including the 
Mayor. The WCC acts as the legislative authority 
for White City. 
White City Metro Township Planning 
Commission: PC.  The PC is responsible for 
providing recommendations to the White City 
WCC regarding the general plan, land use regu -
lations, and various application processes. The 
White City PC has five members, appointed by 
the Council. 
Work Program:  The work program describes 
White City’ strategy for reaching its future vision. 
The work program is categorized by topic. The 
work program lists specific actions that White 
City can take to achieve its goals. For each 
action, the following information is included: 
the responsible party, likely partners, expected 
timeframe for completion, estimated costs, 
funding sources, the goal or goals supported by 
the action, and the type of outcome.
Zoning: Zoning is a tool used by municipali -
ties to govern how land can be used, how large 
buildings can be, and how buildings relate 
to one another. A municipality’s authority to 
enact a zoning ordinance is related to the police 
power: the responsibility to protect the health, 
safety, and welfare of the public. 
  - Page 141
Freqently Asked Questions (FAQ)
“Will a land use ordinance or zoning code 
update consistent with this General Plan 
result in the loss of my property or my home?”
The answer is no. In fact, keeping land use ordi -
nances and zoning codes updated to reflect the 
General Plan helps the community preserve its 
assets and bring about the future it envisions. 
Even if a land use ordinance or zoning update 
made an existing use or structure noncon -
forming (which is not the intent of this General 
Plan), that use or structure would be allowed 
to continue in compliance with State Code. 
Even if a fire or storm damaged the building 
or hindered the use, the building or use can 
be re-built consistent with the previous legal 
non-conforming use. 
An owner of a legal non-conforming use or 
structure may only be made to come into compli-
ance with updated codes if that owner is found 
to have abandoned the use or structure consis -
tent with state code, or if White City enacts a 
termination ordinance for the non-conforming 
use (which can only occur after a property owner 
has received a return on his or her investment 
on the property). 
However, this General Plan protects existing uses 
by ensuring that they are allowed to be main -
tained by property owners even in character 
areas where long-term transition is expected.
“Then why is this plan suggesting White City 
update its land use ordinances and zoning 
code?”
Because White City’s land use code comes from 
the County, White City’s code includes dozens of 
ordinances and zones tailored to a large region 
but poorly suited to a small municipality. 
For example, there are dozens of zones in White 
City’s inherited zoning code that aren’t appli -
cable to or desired for White City (industrial, 
forestry, high density commercial, high density 
residential, etc.). By updating the code and 
tailoring it to White City, White City can better 
protect its character and achieve its desires. 
A person could appeal for a rezone to any zone 
listed in the zoning code. So, having zones in the 
code that the community does not desire puts it 
at risk for undesirable zone changes.
“When an IADU ordinance is passed, does 
that mean that every household can add an 
additional unit to their property?”
No. The IADU ordinance will include consid -
erations regarding property size limitations, 
setback guidelines, water and infrastructure 
availability, and more. First, a property would 
have to meet these standards. Second, the 
property owner would have to apply for the 
necessary use and building permits, pay appli -
cable fees, and undergo an inspection to ensure 
the unit meets building safety standards. 
White City General Plan - Page 142
“Why do the parcel-based land use and the 
zoning land use analyses differ in the acreage 
and location of types of land use?” 
The zoning analysis shows what land uses are 
allowed based on existing codes. The parcel-
based analysis shows data on the purposes for 
which land is currently being used, regardless 
of the zoning district (this data is obtained via 
satellite imagery analysis). 
Example one: There is one commercially-zoned 
property in White City; the zoning map reflects 
this. The parcel-based land use analysis shows 
two commercial properties. Why? It includes the 
property that is zoned and used for commer -
cial as well as a landscaping business that is a 
commercial use conditionally approved in a resi -
dential zone.
Example two: Several properties appear as 
government and institutional land uses on the 
parcel-based map, yet the zoning map shows 
these in a residential zoning district. The residen-
tial zone allows for government and institutional 
land uses, such as churches and schools along 
with residences. So although the zoning map 
only shows one district in that area, the parcel-
based land use map shows a mix of existing uses.
“Do businesses increase crime and make a 
neighborhood undesirable?”
There is no direct link between an increase in 
neighborhood businesses and increased crime; 
in fact, research has made connections that 
suggest the opposite.
One of the most important factors contributing 
to a very safe community is having a vibrant 
street life. (Jane Jacobs, called attention to this 
in the 1960s, and it is now well-documented). A 
vibrant street life results in community members 
being out in the public at all times of the day. 
These community members provide eyes on 
the street and informally enforce codes of social 
conduct and safety standards. 
So, how can municipalities encourage a vibrant 
street life? A vibrant street life requires the 
street to have purposeful destinations (reasons 
for people to spend time there) and places to 
interact (a space for people to engage with each 
other positively); businesses can fulfill both 
these criteria by bringing together customers, 
employees, and passerby and giving them a 
place to converse outside of private residences. 
Thus, there is reason to believe that an influx 
of neighborhood businesses, when tied with 
principles of walkable neighborhoods and place-
making, leads to a vibrant street life, decreasing 
crime informally through the expectations and 
enforcement of community members. 
  - Page 143
Additionally, from a financial perspective, busi -
nesses make a neighborhood more desirable. 
For example, in Neighborhood M, a family can 
run a coffee shop on the first floor while living 
on their second floor. The economic potential 
of that property is far higher than of a similarly 
sized property located in Neighborhood Q that 
does not allow businesses. So, the value of the 
Neighborhood M property is higher. 
In addition to higher property values, neigh -
borhood M may be more desirable for residents 
because it offers access to amenities. With a 
coffee shop nearby, a woman in Neighborhood 
M can work from home without a car and still 
fulfill her craving for that chai latte. Did we 
mention that the woman’s purchase, made 
locally, contributes to White City’s sales tax 
revenue, which goes directly toward paying for 
police and fire services? That’s a ‘latte’ of good 
reasons to support increased opportunities for 
small, local businesses.
White City General Plan - Page 144
Transportation and Land Use Survey  Results
This survey was sent to all MSD-member commu-
nities. White City’s responses are listed below 
and on the next pages. Responses to questions 
1, 2, 5, 6, 8, and 9 are depicted numerically in 
tables. 
  - Page 145

White City General Plan - Page 146
Other questions asked residents to identify areas on a map and comment on those areas. Residents 
could choose to talk about an area in White City or an area elsewhere. For example, one White City 
respondent identified the Jordan River Trail, which is not in White City, as a great place for exercising, 
while another White City resident identified the new Canal Trail as an asset. The written responses to 
the seven questions that allowed written comments are in the following pages.
Question A. “Are there any historic areas in your community that you tink should be preserved? Why is 
this structure/area important to you?”
No historic areas.
in white city, south of 10600 S. we have an area zoned as A2, this is important to preserve, there is a cluster of horse properties and we 
just don’t see that anymore. many white city residents get to enjoy these spaces and remember Utah’s’ history, right here in Salt Lake 
County.
White City has no historically significant areas. Culturally the White Towers Pool has some significance. 
No.
This is History Sandy which I think should be preserved
Our community is small, but White Towers Swimming Pool has been an important community gathering space since the subdivision 
was built. Dimple Dell gully is also an important area in the community.
Dimple Dell. It is an outdoor community resource that defines our neighborhood. We are just another suburb without it.
  - Page 147
Open space in Dry Creek/ Dimple Dell
PRESERVE EXISTING HOMES-THEY DON’T MAKE AFFORDABLE HOUSING LIKE THIS ANYMORE
I’m not aware of any
Leave existing single family dwellings alone. All high density housing is just going to cause greater street, school, shopping conges -
tion. We have enough in our already land-locked built up areas.
White City Neighborhoods are unique and historical. They should be preserved
My naborhood.
Schools are often the learning center of the community. While our children attended school in my area and has had a strong impact in 
my home, I never thought that it was a place of such significance its edifice should be preserved. It was recently razed to provide space 
for a new school. It is a beautiful building and will provide several generations of community service. And when it is time it needs to 
be replaced I hope they replace it. We do not have any historic buildings. 
none
I don’t know
White Towers Pool. It’s a great gathering space and a reminder of the neighborhood’s character.
bear park. We wouldn’t want to lose green space, since we can’t get that back
I work at the landfill. No public transport goes at the hours I need.
I don’t know of any historic areas in my community.
No
n/a
Our homes. Midcentury modern gems. Let’s make them beautiful like Palm Springs
Nothing in particular in the south valley, but the old city/county downtown SLC should be preserved.
Why is the focus on historic areas and not on restoring native vegetation in Dimple Dell. There are so many invasive weeds in Dimple 
Dell, including goatheads. We need to prioritize restoration of native vegetation in Dimple Dell.
The original homes in White City, one of the first communities in the south end of the valley.
Question B. ” Please specify any other transportation concerns that are not included in the list above. ”
Public transit should be a service, not a for profit business. I think that many of our mass transit transportation options are severely 
hindered because of a desire for profitability over usability. Compounded by that are frequently changing schedules because of “prof -
itability” that result in a distrust in the system for routine travel. 
Increase covered bicycle parking at trax stations
Travel in the salt lake valley is impossible to travel from east to west and back on public transportation. Travel between Sandy and 
South Jordan should be easy, but no bus line exists to go east-west. 
UTA BUS IS TERRIBLE-NO GOOD FOR TRAVEL CAN’T GET THERE FROM HERE
Too few Front Runner Times. 1/2 hour between pickups makes Front Runner useless in the AM and PM drive times.
why can’t we fix or create a route or highway without having to fix or redo it within 5 years?
Listed in my comments above
Street lights
lack of street lighting in WC
How about a crosswalk at 9400 and Poppy?
Currently no convenient access to bus or rail. 
SPEEDING DOWN SEGO LILY!!!!!
Speeding in residential neighborhoods
Question C. “Other?” 
White City General Plan - Page 148
Enforcing building standards and bringing neighborhoods up to new standards is important. Our community looks very run down, 
infrastructure and homes.
Keep White City an intimate little city, with smaller homes, bigger lot sizes. let’s not over develop it bringing in more and more people 
for the sake of growth, let’s preserve what we have, and just improve on it. not growth for the sake of growth. Quality over Quantity.
On the subject of light pollution, controlling the brightness of signs like schools and local business are putting up would be fantastic. 
The excessively bright signs are really frustrating and an eyesore. 
LEAVE WHITE CITY ALONE, DON’T MESS WITH IT, PEOPLE LIVE HERE BECAUSE THEY LIKE HOW IT IS
Make it easy to get to a business. These divider medians that limit your opportunity to access a business is an idiot idea, like 1300 e 
and 10600 s
Leave White City as it is. 
limited government and its involvement in my life. 
Na.
White City was established as a residential community, where businesses within the community, or even a tax base was not consid -
ered. There were businesses within the area to meet their needs. Most came here for affordable housing. However, change or progress 
may be acceptable as the community at large sees the necessity. Many do not want an HOA but the freedom to live as they choose 
with no regard of their neighbors. I believe in the concept of raising the median level of affordable housing, enforcing a level of 
property management. I strongly disagree with replacing homes with businesses.
Keep White City residential!!!
It would be nice to NOT have large apartment buildings here in WC
no bus or rail goes to the mine or dump
Restriction of high density housing
Restore the native vegetation of Dimple Dell. Create Monarch waystations there.
Question D. “Is there something else you’d like to add?” 
Consider changing church property zoning into school zoning and have a charter school come into the area. Or change rundown 
commercial property into multi-family housing and parks, or community centers.
There is no need to add commercial pieces to our suburb. There are plenty of commercial destinations around White city. Apartments 
and townhome should be forbidden.
The board of UTA needs to stop pouring money into light rail and forcing all bus lines to feed the light rail, while ignoring needs in the 
southern end of the valley. Look into making east west bus lines that go further than the closest Trax stop.
Remove speed bumps in White City
Don’t build stupid intersections!!!! Like 12300 s and the frontage road in Draper, that has to be one of the dumbest ideas brought to 
Utah.
preserve my constitutional rights. 
No
 I have observed while there is a dialog on the surface, I feel there are some of our leaders, who have their own personal agenda that 
take precedence over the desires or needs of the majority. I want to believe they have the best interest of WC at heart. My greatest 
concern is we may destroy why we came here in the first place.
Please investigate our crooked elected White City Officials. They are not listening to their constituents and receiving some kind of 
kickback or compensation thats fueling their alternative agenda. 
The charm should remain. 
Our neighbors use the dead end of Emerald Dr as their own personal parking lot despite two empty, unused driveways for weeks at a 
time. Again, no code enforcement...y
More detailed definitions of the items above would be helpful. Not sure exactly what many of them are talking about.
Our access to public transportation has been dramatically reduced over the last few years. I am a fan of Trax but having interline busses 
to get you there is a necessity. I like the new plan where you can call for a van in the neighborhood, which will route you to available 
train/bus, unfortunately it is not available in our township. I realize Covid is currently impacting things, but we need long range plans 
to provide public transportation to our commuities.
  - Page 149
Cleanliness of neighborhoods. 
Restore the native vegetation of Dimple Dell. Create Monarch waystations there.
White City should be left as single family homes, not changed to high density housing/business mix. There long term residents and 
young families starting out and this is an area that is affordable. Many people have lived here their whole life’s, this is their home and 
roots!!
Question E “What do you like about this place?”
Bike, walking, rain, buses, and cars all work together well through this area. Its close to a park, food, entertainment, parking, etc.
Multiple streets coming together, but some are now dedicated for walking and biking, areas just for beautification, slower traffic. Its a 
destination location while still allowing traffic to flow through.
I used to live in south jordan, and could take the UTA up to the U. now I live in white city and work in west valley. there is no good 
option for me any longer.
Frequent transportation options, mixed use development, walkable, pedestrian friendly streets. 
Its not in the community, but this has an amazing light rail station, wide crosswalks, slow traffic speeds, quick access to parks, and close 
to a downtown arts district. It has scultures and art along the roads, in the sidewalks, and more. Its beautiful.
This is a beautiful way to tie lots of traffic, multiple intersections, pedestrians, biking, cars, buses, and destinations all together. A 
section of road became a boardwalk, unusable land became a mini park/monument. Traffic is slowed down, but it still works for all 
modes of transportation.
The new bike/walk bridge over dimple dell will be wonderful. It allows pedestrians and bicyclists the option to stay away from vehicle 
traffic, yet connecting them through an active path for exercise.
Quick access from home to freeway
Close to home, easy to walk.
Traffic flows well, bike lanes are easy to access, it’s well maintained
This map is not useable
Lightrail frequency, evening and weekend service.
Sandy tracks station with buses
I don’t have a place
CLOSE TO HOME
bus service
Trax drops me off at Temple Square for holiday visits
All of the above.
it’s a residential neighborhood close to grocery, gas, and hardware stores, dr. offices, pharmacies. 
Downtown easy to walk about
We need more bus service to a from trax.
I seem to either have entered information on this topic as I cannot find the map. I like WCities openness, it is close to schools. churches. 
Most of us are close enough to friends walking should not be a hindrance. Most streets are open enough bike riding can be enjoyable. 
Things are accessible by walking or taking the trax
Good mix of Trax, bike paths, buses, parking
Close to home. Trail connects for a few miles down into Draper. New bridge allows us to cross north quickly. 
It’s downtown. so many shops to walk and dine
Home
easy to walk around
Yes.
Close to home, and the new walking/biking path through white city, that connects through, is very convenient and safe.
Close to home, easy to walk and run
White City General Plan - Page 150
sidewalks in the neighborhood
Regular bus service.
Regular bus service from the tracks station.
On my way just about anywhere I need to go.
Good developed corridor for travel.
Easy access 
Close to home
E 9000 S was recently expanded, signs are clear, and traffic runs smoothly. I never feel like I’m stuck at a light.
Regular trax service
Easy access to I 15 from my home, 90th South has become a nightmare even before the current construction.
Close to home, lights are timed just right to ensure traffic keeps flowing
Close to home
Question F. “What don’t you like about this place?”
Main entrance into the community but is narrow and tight. Blind corners due to homeowners trees/plants. Should have a right turn 
lane, Sidewalks are a mess. Traffic goes well over the speed limit through here. North/Sidebound traffic has to slow for dips. Traffic light 
can be long to get out of community.
Street is narrow. People park on both sides of street, making only room for 1 car to pass through. Cars park on driveways, blocking the 
sidewalks.
people don’t stop for right hand turns, they speed, usually they don’t slow down.
Lack of walkability. Development discourages neighborhood shops, only options involve crossing very busy large roads, virtually no 
buses, not many bike lanes, etc. 
The traffic light takes too long to allow north and southbound traffic to move. The sidewalks are narrow, dirty, and not safe for pedes -
trians. A right turn lane on the north-east corner to turn into Carnation heading north would be beneficial. You could use the vacant 
land to build it, add some landscaping and some art to beautify and entrance into White City.
Too musch traffic and not easy to get from place to place.
The “continuous flow” intersection does not work well
This map is not useable
It’s an unsafe intersection. People drive too fast. Or they stop when they shouldn’t. It should be a 4 way stop instead of a 2 way. 
Lack of bus connection. 
No bus service 
There is no transportation from here. We use to have a bus stop at Larkspur and Carnation and it went everywhere and stopped every 
hour or so. They took it away when they built tracks.
WHOLE THING IS A CLUSTER
no buses
This is close to my house. Bus stops are not convenient and Trax does not get me close.
Cumbersome U turns instead of lefthand turns at intersections. Roundabouts with obstructions in the middle of the island so you can’t 
see the traffic coming.
Unsafe intersection
We need more bus service to and from trax stations.
Access into WC by bus has not always been non-existent. The populus is getting older, many are becoming unable to drive. With fewer 
options and fewer conveniences. WC had access to 5 grocery stores within walking distance of their homes.Today there is only one. 
For many the must travel in excess of 1 or more miles for produce, etc. Eteries surround WC yet none are or were within the township, 
yet all entities mentioned were or are within the tax base of Sandy. People purchasing homes within WC did not do so with the conve -
nience of a WC business nearby or helping their communities tax base.
Things are far away and the only way to get places effectively is by driving.
busy intersection, unsafe
  - Page 151
Only option is a car.
We don’t want public transport in white city! 
No place to bike or walk
WC is isolated. We can’t walk and dine
isolated
Experiment gone wrong.
No regular service
No regular bus service.
Poor visibility looking west. Screwy intersection heading east. Needs a traffic light.
Q
unknown 
Too crowded
This intersection going into the parking lot has no clear signage for traffic flow. There are frequent slowdowns and congestion because 
cars in both lanes try to go straight or don’t know who has the right of way.
Cars in the right turn only lane frequently drive straight through the intersection.
It is difficult to turn left on Sego Lily Dr from north bound 1300 E. 
A lot of accidents
Awkward street and flow of traffic
Getting impossible to use 90th. even before current restrictions
I catch every stinking red light on 7th east all. the. time
Public transportation does run at times I need.
Question G. “Why is this building or area important to you?”
Big Bear Park. This park could become amazing with many purposes - sports fields and courts, children play areas, covered picnicing, 
etc. Its needs easier and more access in and out of by car, bike, or walking from all directions. It needs more parking.
This church building is old and run down. Attendance is very low. This property could be rezoned for multi-family homes and a small 
neighborhood park.
This church property is very large. The parking lot is never full. Maybe the north section could be re-purposed into a neighborhood 
park or community center of some kind.
This shopping center should be annexed into White City and made amazing. Add stand-alone restaurants, rec center, redo the theater, 
etc. Add an apartment complex or townhomes. Add a small park. It could be amazing.
Many of my clients and regular (non pandemic) dining and entertainment destinations are located here. 
Big Bear Park. It could be an amazing destination. It needs more - softball field, racketball courts, more parking, more than 1 entrance, 
pedestrian/bike entrances from east and north.
This church is old and attendance is very low. The congregations could be moved to another church building. It could be rezoned for 
townhomes and a small park, or maybe a charter school to compete with public schooling.
This church lot is huge. The back portion is just an always empty parking lot. It could be rezoned for townhomes or a small park, or 
maybe a charter school to compete with public schooling.
There is a small section of Dimple dell park that could be updated to have an activity area for kids and families. Maybe benches, 
covered eating area, playground, and small parking lot.
Groceries at Walmart, home improvement at Lowes, haircuts, restaurants, etc
Shopping area.
Shopping area.
Our Water District 
BEAR PARK
new trail and bridge
White City General Plan - Page 152
It’s one of the very few community areas in white city
Religious community
It has everything I need - gas, Lowes, Walmart, many restaurants, etc.
FREEDOM TO LEAVE
education
work
Library
My church building.
White City Neighborhoods are important. We should preserve them.
it’s where I live
Winter and summer reqreation.
Mychurch is on 10600 South. Weather permitting I often walk to church, It kind of puts you in control of the spirit before you enter the 
doors and a chance to reflect an the way home. If I walk this is a pleasure walk. I also walk to the park in Sandy. It is a pleasure to do 
so without having time constraints
This is the mall we are most familiar with and that is closes to where we live.
This is the school where I work.
Because its a quiet residential neighborhood free of commercialization. 
We love the dimple dell regional park area and are so glad to have the great outdoors at our fingertips. 
The Univ is an important area since I work here. the commute via train 40 min the drive 25
family
This area is so convenient and we love it for shopping and eating.
This is where I work, and have to travel to regularly.
The walking area is great for walking my pet or just myself.
Wall falling apart, missing gate, homeless foot traffic to Bear Park, lots of garbage everywhere on west side of wall.
Long distance travel
Alta View Clinic - medical care
Bear Park - family leisure/recreation
walking, exercise, leisure time
Grocery shopping and trail access
A place to hike and bike
Library for books
Keeping the open space of Dimple Dell is a necessity to this community, we are so lucky to have such a natural area in our metropolitan 
area.
I use Dimple Dell- I walk there daily.
We frequent the climbing GYM. 
It is where I work
  - Page 153
Land and Character Survey Results
Q1. Please describe the "character of White City" .
A bedroom community which has good access to city conveniences as well as close access to nature and wilderness.
A lot of elderly residents and young families with children. Quiet and minimal traffic
A smaller community where there are many long term/life long residents who look out for each other. A nice mix of young and old, 
quiet and safe. Single family homes that are affordable with nice yards where houses are crammed so close together.
Calm. Enough business to support the community but not so much that it feels like a city.
Certain parts of White city need help, however having lived here for 29 years, i believe that we have taken out some of the stigma that 
existed with White city.
Charming
Close knit resident community, aware, observant, and protective of history and amenities, particularly the Water Company and parks. 
Transition community, caring for last original owners while welcoming young family move in's who often remodel and update.
Dimple Dell
Feels like you’re transported back to the 60’s - 80’s. In a good way...
Funky houses with some interesting landscaping features near to Dimple Dell. McMansions are absent thankfully, and it's not a treeless 
wasteland like much of Draper.
Getting run down and trashy.
I community of moderate income housing that is a pleasant, and so far, safe place to live.
I did not upload a picture and not sure on question
I did not upload pictures.
I do not believe that WC has a particular character. I have lived in the area for over 28 years and nothing seems to have changed. So 
this might be a good idea. Violence is going up so that should be a concern
I don't think white city has much character. Certainly nothing I'd want to replicate across the area. I'd characterize it as old and worn, 
with little modern amenities or initiatives.
I have lived in White City for 48 years and feel that we live in a quite residential area, and that it should stay that way. In speaking to 
people in my area,no one is interested in mixed use buildings,they were surprised that it was even being discussed.
I haven't uploaded any photos. Character is traditional mostly mid century and rambler single family dwellings. Very little commercial 
areas in the community.
I love the small neighborhood feel. I moved back in the neighborhood almost 3 years ago. I know more people and talk to more people 
in that 3 years then I did in my old neighborhood of 15 years. People are more friendly in general.
I think these images typify the intentions of the original developer. Modest, well kept, single family dwellings.
I'm not sure what you mean by "character" , but I would say uninvolved. I've never been part of a community that care so little. I feel 
more part of Sandy, than I do White City.
In general, White City, unfortunately, has an overall run-down, tired, unkempt character. I appreciate the neighbors who take care of 
their homes and yards, but those are exceptions, not the rule.
Inadequate street lighting with plenty of urban blight. Any code enforcement going on?
It was better before it started emulating other cities and not seriously considering or helping residents with increased crime and 
privacy issues from "upgrades" within the city
Mostly small, single-family homes built very simple in nature. The majority of development is 50+ years old, worn, and in disrepair. 
There are many mature trees. Mix of wide and narrow streets, some with and without sidewalks and parkstrips.
Nice neighborhood community
No photos uploaded
No pictures uploaded. We feel the character of White City includes single family homes, schools, churches, and parks and trails.
Not at this time. No photos at this time.
White City General Plan - Page 154
Old, trashy, unkempt, slums
Quiet affordable neighborhood. Free of the commercialization the plagues the rest of our lives.
Quiet family neighborhood
Small, quaint, modest, neighborly
Smaller houses, well-kept good-size yards, and unique styles - not cookie-cutter houses or identical landscaping.
Suburban family neighborhood.
To me, the character of White City is a peaceful, family oriented community
Up and coming 1960's vintage neighborhood with small and functional homes full of solid middle class folk.
When I tell people I live in White City, their response can be negative. Even though many maintain their yards, there are more that do 
not. It's sad that some just don't care. I hope for a more tight knit community where people take care of each other
White City has been an excellent place to raise children with a low crime rate and homes that are affordable. Even my daughter would 
have loved to live in White City after she married and had a family, but the homes became unaffordable even if desirable.
White City is a pocket of solitude in Salt Lake County. It's quiet. You can see stars at night and hear crickets. You know your neighbors 
and care about them. The kids are safe walking to school each day or playing on the playground after school.
White City is a quiet residential community within a more bustling area of the valley.
White City is a simple town built on an economy budget (unlike the nicer homes in Sandy). This makes it more affordable than living 
in Sandy. White City enjoys nearby amenities, opportunities, facilities, and transportation options.
White City is a suburb with too many bi-levels, some split levels, and some nice ramblers. It has narrow streets with homes that have 
some nice landscaping and some with weeds. It's character is that of a suburb, a place away from work and storefronts.
White City is diverse, with a mixture of young and old, different races and ethnicities, and socioeconomic backgrounds. It's also a bit 
rough around the edges, in the best way.
White City, to us, in 1975 was the suburbs. That is why we moved here and that is what we think it should stay. We lived here and 
worked in Salt Lake Ciity. No business. No mult-family dewlllings. With one family living there.
White city is a lovely neighborhood. It is close to shopping and schools and I’d prefer to keep it that way and not incorporate business 
into the neighborhood.
an area of families and neighbors caring for each other and our properties
family and community centered
independence
suburban residential
no pictures
In addition to the comments, seven images were submitted by survey respondents. These images 
suggest that the character of White City is defined by well-kept, modest, one-two story split-level, 
bi-level, or ranch-style homes.

  - Page 155

White City General Plan - Page 156
Q2a. Please describe places/features of White City that you like, and think should be preserved.
No pictures
All residential areas. We don’t want commercial or any businesses.
Bear Park with current Bear Statue. No photos at this time.
Bear Park, Canal Trail Dimple Dell, White Towes Swimming Club
Big Bear Park and Dimple Dell Canyon
Big Bear Park.
Definitely the gully and parks and small homes.
Dimple Dell park along with community access points, general single family housing types, and preservation of large lot / agricultural 
areas.
Family atmosphere in residential areas
Green spaces like Bear Park have been a good community resource. Although I don’t live next to the park, it seems like efforts have 
been successful in keeping the park safe and well maintained.
Historical places should be preserved. The population density level we have now is good. I don’t want it to increase too much or too 
fast, especially if it would affect traffic.
I did not upload a picture.
I enjoy the look of red brick houses, Bear Park, most people take care of their yards,new sidewalks, walking paths, churches and schools 
in very close proximity.
I generally like Big Bear Park, though the constant sports teams tend to ruin the space for actual residents and bring a lot of noise. I 
also like the canal trail. That was a very good addition to the area.
I like that our neighbors, for the most part, get a long. But I would only keep the areas that look upkept and clean.
I like the humble and clean aspect - not fancy or gaudy, but nice and welcoming.
I like the new sidewalks and improvements that have been made, and hope more of that is on the horizon.
I like the park and the community pool. I don’t want high density housing and strip malls that will bring in undesirable businesses or 
will sit empty.
I like the single family dwellings and do not want commercial development or mixed use.
I like the trails, dimple dell, and other parks. Single family homes should also be preserved.
I like well kept yards and that we have light neighborhood traffic not heavy traffic for businesses.
I love the new trail and the bridge that connects us to the north side and Bear park. It makes it somuch easier to get around in the 
neighborhood without having to go down to 7th or up the 13th. Both very dangerous roads. I also love Dimple Dell park.
I really like the idea of our white city pool
I think Sego Lily and surrounding streets should stay how they are because there are a lot of schools and children. Too much traffic 
would be dangerous.
I want White Towers Pool preserved, because it captures the family nature of the community and offers something unique. I also want 
to preserve the Last Blast of Summer for the same reasons.
I would like to see the residential aspect of White City preserved, as well as Bear Park and the new Canal Trail.
Needs updating
No photos uploaded
Parks, open spaces
Residential only
Safety, quiet, the neighborhood feel should be preserved because they make the community who it is. Low traffic, walk-ways, the gully 
should be preserved because they allow families and individuals to be safe and have access to nature to enjoy.
Small community and easy access to stores and main arteries.
The fact that we live in neighborhoods that have big yards, and homes that are average. I like the feel of the community. We do not 
need to go to a High density housing community.
  - Page 157
The original White City. Single family houses with one family living there.
The parks and trails, and mainly retain the single family dwellings. Very little area for commercial development unless large areas of 
housing were to be torn down. Not a popular option.
The single family homes should be preserved and not sacrificed for high density housing or businesses.
The suburb itself should be preserved as a suburb. It does not need to change. It functions for what it is. Mixed use is used by progres -
sives who want to cut down their carbon footprint.
There is an old farmhouse at 10470 S Columbine Cir that should be preserved and recognized, clean up the yard and house and add a 
plaque as a historical site. White Towers pool is pretty neat. Properties should mostly remain single-family residents.
They’ve already been changed so there’s nothing to preserve
Trails and parks and homes/yards that are neat and cared for.
Trees. Tall trees - as many as possible. As much as possible we should make it darker at night (especially in the bike paths around the 
drainage project).
Water Company staying resident managed and in White City ownership. Parks being maintained. Home ownership with residents.
We could use more sidewalks to make it easier for people to get around, especially the elderly. I walk around this area everyday with 
my dog, I feel cleaning up some of the current spaces and enforcing code would improve the look of our community.
White City swimming pool. Parks in area
White Towers Swimming Club, Canal Trail, Big Bear Park, Dimple Dell Park and connections from the community into the park. Schools 
(Alta View and others on White City borders). Quiet community. Friendly neighborhoods.
White city enjoys single family housing and not the congestion that comes along with high density housing. It also is relatively quiet 
as compared to mixed-use areas containing restaurants, bars, clubs, convenient stores, etc.
bear park
big bear park, white tower swimming pool, gully
the homes and park to continue to be kept up, neat and clean and watered properly. the park and its ammenties. the new trail is great 
but proper landscaping should have been in place at the time of construction.
this is a quiet non-commercial neighborhood and it should remain that way maintain the status quo
water saving yards
In addition to the comments, three images were submitted by survey respondents.They identify White 
City’s oldest home, the pool, and the horse properties as places to preserve.

White City General Plan - Page 158
Q3a. Please describe places/features that you like, and that are a good model for future development 
in White City. 
no pictures
Areas of Sugarhouse and Holiday that have 1 or 2 small shops scattered in the neighborhood should be used as an example for the 
potential here. Adding small community-focused amenities would enhance the appeal and encourage walking.
Bear Park and the trail across the ravine are nice - can walk through neighborhoods and also are pleasant places.
Big Bear Park.
Care must be taken to rejuvenate what we already have since there is no land for development.
Dimple Dell park is a major asset
Every home that has residents is a good example of why we don't need businesses.
Home upgrades are welcome as long as they adhere to the intentions of the original development plan. Single family dwellings. No 
purposed rental properties, no duplexes, no fourplexes, no business interests.
I enjoy the new Pathways and sidewalks, Bear Park, schools and churches.
I like our residential only city with no commercial or mixed use.
I like parks
I like that there are not obvious businesses on Sego Lily. It is nice to drive down Sego Lily and see kids playing in their yards etc. If there 
is going to be mixed then it should be down towards the 7 Eleven and storage place.
I like the access we have to walking trails in the gully. I like the playground at Alta Views which serves as a park. I like that I’m able to 
feel safe in my neighborhood and that my home where I’ve lived for over 45 years seems secure.
I like the new lights in the light polls. I especially like the addition of the lights on Zinnia Way! Makes it much safer at night.
I like the path that leads to the new bridge over Dimple Dell, and the bridge. I love encouragement of tall trees, shadows, and darkness 
at night. Walkability is a plus, and I do like the increased presence of sidewalks. Lots of nice gardens in the area.
I like the quiet close knit neighborhood that doesn’t have major traffic that businesses or high density housing will bring.
I think the trail could be a good thing for development, though I'm not sure it has been executed in the best. way. I like that I can walk 
to the park and access other parts of the neighborhood (like schools) on foot.
I want local small business to move in! I want to be able to walk to a small business and inject money into the area I live in instead of 
giving everything to Sandy and Draper. I'd like to see more multi-family housing go up. I'd like to see sidewalks.
I would not like to see a lot of growth in White City, outside of upgrading some homes or yards to meet code. Adding sidewalks or 
walkways on the north side of the gully might increase the safety for children going to school.
I'd hate to see homes lost but there are a couple places that could be good for future development in White City. There are 3 homes on 
700 east house numbers 10375, 10385, 10395 also the SE corner of SegoLily/700 east could be good for future development.
I'd like to see a continued push for sustainable, affordable housing. White City offers some of the only real estate left in the valley a 
young family can afford.
Jordan River is starting to become a better model for trail signage and wayfinding with small amenities along the trail. On a smaller 
scale that could be nice along the canal trail. Walkable safe community maintaining access to surrounding commercial.
Mix use. New larger homes for young families. See trees that shade the streets and sidewalks like in Sugarhouse. A nice community 
center for White City for meetings and recreation. Large, welcome park entrances for Bear and Dimple Dell parks, and trails.
More trees
No image uploaded
No photos uploaded
Not a lot of business traffic
Nothing
Parks and residential areas are nice.
Parks and trails. Homes and yards that are clean and orderly.
Photos will not upload. I grew up in White City then lived in 5 other states and recently returned purchasing my parents home. Other 
towns had quaint planned areas that built a strong community bond. Look up photos of Geneva Illinois 3rd Street for ideas
  - Page 159
Single family dwellings with requirements to water your grass and take care of your property. No slumlords allowed.
Sugarhouse area
Sugarhouse- walkable neighborhoods, pretty houses, connected to businesses but no businesses in the neighborhoods
Tall concrete/cement walls protecting residents safety and privacy along the trail
The new walking path is nice. I hope it continues to be developed
The newly street lights. Keeps crime away, with well lit street lights. Have to an eye out for streets that still have very dark areas.
The suburb area near Buttercup Park in Sandy is a good model for future development in White City.
The walking trail that was recently opened is wonderful,although it could use some landscaping and weed control. Placing Pet cleanup 
bags, similar to Dimple Dell and the N side of 106 would help people clean up after their pets. Small parks on S side WCT
There is no room and no need for future development except for neighborhood home improvement. People seek out White City to 
get away from urban areas.
There is no room for future developement.
There is not a need for future development in White City. Where are you going to put it? I like the improvement of sidewalks
Township and county parks are of good quality. Maintain open spaces.
We have very little area for development. City is primarily built out and the majority of the residents want to keep the integrity of this 
type of community.
We need better street lights. We need more code enforcement for those with too many vehicles, junky yards and motor homes, etc. 
We need people to clean up their yards.
Where to start!? A website that doesn't look like it was built in 90's would be nice. How about official city social media pages? It's 
almost like our city is still living in the yeah 2000
White city is landlocked. We do not need to turn it into California and change areas that will be developing to look like some of those 
communities.
any open spaces within White City could be made into small parks for families to utilize for family get togethers and other related 
activities.
more lights, and better safety
none
the new bridge across the gully
walking path
In addition to the comments, eleven images were submitted by survey respondents. These pictures 
identify tree-lined streets, a community center/library, park access, sidewalk maintenance, neigh -
borhood businesses, duplexes that resemble single-family homes, White City’s existing lot sizes, and 
single-family homes as good models for future development in White City. Find these images on the 
next two pages (next spread).
White City General Plan - Page 160

  - Page 161

White City General Plan - Page 162
Q4a. Please describe places/features that you dislike, which even if they can’t be remedied, at least 
shouldn’t be repeated with future development in White City. 
no pictures
Big new developments that have houses right on top of each other.
Crowded communities without adequate parking should be avoided. Neighborhoods without sidewalks are not family friendly.
Dislike homes that have unkempt yards, if you can’t afford, or don’t want to water, then landscape with appropriate landscape that 
doesn’t require frequent water. Also we must get the junk off of our properties.
Generally, I like White City. I don’t see industry sandwiched against residential. Larkspur, Budlea and Violet drives could use more 
streetlights. Some places are a little scary at night if you’re alone.
Gutters and sidewalks that need replacing.
Homes / business that are cheap, junk yards, or poorly kept.
Homes allowed to accumulate lots of stuff looks like hoarding
Homes in extreme disrepair. Weeds everywhere including goatheads and overgrowth covering sidewalks. Makeshift materials for 
fencing. Unapproved / non-standard building practices. Unfinished additions, makeshift roofing. Yards unattended and full of junk.
Houses with trash, non kept yards.
I dislike have lots of really big homes.
I dislike that there aren’t sidewalks throughout all of White City
I dislike the areas without sidewalks or street lights. I also wish some houses were better landscaped and cared for.
I dislike the smaller Bi-Level houses and narrow roads. I also dislike townhomes and apartments.
I don’t like that we don’t have enough street lights. I don’t like that sidewalks are sinking and uneven. I don’t like that people just don’t 
care about their yards.
I don’t like the Speedway building on the corner of 10600 and 700 East. It seems like a building that it meant for tiny geographic of our 
population. I would like to see a business or business that meant the needs of more families. (I miss the aquarium.)
I would add lighting on the trail at night as a security measure. I would love to see fiber come into our community especially with the 
changes to workplace locations being from home now and in the foreseeable future.
Keep NSEW address. Keep small areas for community garden spaces. Corner of 7th e and 98th s Blue-light based LED lighting. Return 
private property rights - land grants & alloidial title property ownership, not rental of real estate from IMF.
Lack of street lights
Many homes in different areas of White City are in disrepair; too many homes have multiple autos/trucks in driveways and on streets 
(suspect more than one family live in these areas).
Many properties have room for improvement in terms of landscape and curb appeal. However, I am unsure how to accomplish better 
curb appeal while still respecting owner’s wishes and rights. You cannot force someone to keep things neat and tidy…can you?
Many years ago I stopped at the end of a street to assess why it looked unkempt and noticed it was chain link fences, old abandoned 
cars in the front yards and WEEDS. I wish keeping up yards could be enforced.
Na
No image.
No photos uploaded
No sidewalks in the residential areas, always been a poor choice.
No traffic light at 9400 S and Poppy Ln. Big dip heading east towards Poppy reduces visibility when I need to turn west there. Going 
east towards Walmart the first intersection you come to is a mess. Off center??
Not placing sidewalks. Sidewalks are a must!
Only dislike is unkept run down yards in White City. Can these be remedied with organized service or a fund to provide a 1 day curb 
appeal mini makeover for residents unable to do manual labor? Hire a small seasonal community landscaper?
Other areas of White City - residential areas which streets still have very darkness at night.
Some streets have no sidewalks. Some properties are not very well maintained.
  - Page 163
Speeding on Sego Lily
The lack of sidewalks and street lights is something I hate. It makes the neighborhood feel unsafe.
The low skill diy changes people have made on their properties, including perpetually unfinished projects should be discouraged. The 
shallow curved gutters should grIADUally be replaced with more effective options.
The non existent safety and privacy wall along the trail, it was very callous and disrespectful to not have that be a priority and is 
causing many many problems for the residents directly affected
The only negative thing I can think of is how run down some of the homes in the Township are, they are neglected and overrun with 
trash and such, just turning into our Township in some areas is embarrassing, don’t we have codes that can be enforced.
The trashy yards and unkempt property.
The walkway with NO PRIVACY FENCING for people living on either side. ABSOLUTLY IRRESPONSIBLE, UNCARING, AND A VIOLOATION 
OF PRIVACY!! SHAME ON WHITE CITY, SANDY CITY AND SLCO. Your lack of concern for the safety and privacy for citizens is sickening.
There are places on/near Larkspur that do not have sidewalks. It feels unsafe to walk around there or as a driver be more vigilant that 
you don’t encounter walkers.
There is a tree on a corner of 106th South and Primrose the was pruned and has now overgrown so it blocks the vision for cars pulling 
out onto 106th which I feel is dangerous.
There isn’t anything that comes to mind.
Trashy yards that renters do not up keep. No noisy business like tire shops etc. The business should be low keyed and blend in. We do 
not want White City to look like State Street.
We could use more street lights. Also white city water crews need to be more conscientious when repairing lines. I now have a sinking 
sidewalk because of their lack of concern.
We live on Silver Mountain Drive which is a block east of 700 East and very close to 10600 South. It is already quite noisy with various 
businesses and the fire department near, so more commercial development would make it noisier.
While some businesses may do a good job of not being detrimental or disruptive to the neighborhood, rezoning or allowing busi -
nesses is a terrible idea. NO mixed use/business interests. Residential properties only.
Worst feature has got to be our current elected officials. They are crooked and undermining the wishes of the community. And most 
likely involved in some kind of illegal payback from potential developers.
Yards that are full of weeds, or dying grass. Trash in the yards. We should have clean, well kept homes and yards. We have plenty of 
stores that can be walked to if needed. We don’t need any more business. We don’t need Big 5.
n/a
no knowledge
no proper landscaping plans for the areas along the new trail.
nothing
the lack of sidewalks and walkable routes. How old and worn everything looks.
White City General Plan - Page 164
In addition to the comments, thirteen images were submitted by respondents. Please note that seven 
pictures depict a resident’s home/yard and are not included for privacy reasons. Those pictures convey 
buildings in disrepair, with potential safety issues, as well as weed-filled and unkempt yards. The six 
pictures below show unkempt vegetation that inhibits walking on the sidewalks, fences, and on-street 
parking of large trailers and boats.
  - Page 165
Q5. For a small-scale mixed-use area (residential and small business), what kind of building design do 
you prefer? (51 respondents, 51 responses, 2 skips) 
Q6. Building Frontage. What type of building relationships to streets or spaces are desirable for 
mixed-use areas in White City? Choose all that apply. (35 respondents, 71 responses, 18 skips)
56.9%, 2929.4%, 15
13.7%, 7
No Mixed Use
Mixed Use Vertical
Mixed Use Horizontal
0
5
10
15
20
25
Building face
plaza
Building face
inward
Building face
street
minimum
setback
Building face
street small
setback
Building face
street medium
setback
Building face
parking
White City General Plan - Page 166
Q7. Which parking locations are desirable for mixed use buildings in White City? Choose all that apply. 
(45 respondents, 91 responses, 8 skips)
Q8. Select the mixed use building designs that fit the character of White City. Choose all that apply. (37 
respondents, 102 responses, 16 skips).
0
5
10
15
20
25
Small back
lot
Small side
lot
None On street
only
Small front
lot
Medium
side lot
Medium
front lot
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Craftsman Minimal
Traditional
Bungalow Modern
Urban
Modern
Brick
Tudor
Revival
Two Story
  - Page 167
Q9. What landscaping or public spaces are desirable for White City mixed use developments? Choose 
all that apply. (39 respondents, 153 responses, 14 skips)
Q10. In the future, where do you think it would be most appropriate to allow mixed use areas in White 
City? (53 respondents, 77 responses)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Landscape low
water
Landscape park
strip
Landscape
useable space
Landscape
outdoor seating
Landscape
transportation
accomodations
Landscape full
cover
Landscape none
33.8% , 26
26.0% , 20
16.9% , 13
16.9% , 13
6.5%, 
5
No where
Major intersections
Major roads
Near existing attractions
All areas
White City General Plan - Page 168
Is there anything else you’d like to add?
At most I’d be interested in a public use area on the south side of Dimple Dell similar but maybe not as big as Big Bear. Also maybe a 
small convenience store where I don’t have to cross 700 or 10600
I like the small-town feel. Please don’t advocate for making everything large apartment buildings or jammed-together townhouses.
Why are we continually asked about mixed use facilities when we have expressed each time that we do not want to loss any houses 
for mixed-use. Are you still considering eliminating houses? I must say that the pathway is fantastic and glad to have a sidewalks along 
Galena for pedestrians safety. 
Improve what’s already here. Stop coming up with plans that are going to pull people out of their homes!
I’d like the focus to be on affordable housing instead of McMansions.
Why do you keep trying to get rid of peoples homes? We have enough crummy strip malls and chain restaurants in Sandy. Let’s 
preserve some neighborhoods!  We all are wondering where you are getting the kickback from and want current white city elected 
people out of office ASAP! Crooks!
Please keep White city as it is. We do not need to become like the rest of urban cities. You think you are doing good by changing the 
feel of white city. It isn’t needed.
We don’t want mixed use in WhI don’t know how many times we as a community have to make it known, WE DON’T WANT MIXED USE 
IN WHITE CITY!!! LEAVE. IT. ALONE !!!!!  It is time for the “mayor” to step down. We need leadership that does not bow down to her. It is 
not acceptable for her to have her thumb on the other members who seem to worship her. There is something seriously wrong with 
that picture. New members of the community council are being shunned for speaking the truth. How unfortunate. 
Most of the residents in White City do not want mixed use buildings in our township,that is not why this community was established. 
Why are we pushing this concept? I have seen mixed use buildings in Sugarhouse, the living spaces are filling up but many of the 
business are not in use, they have also built some mixed use buildings in Draper, some of the living spaces are occupied, but not the 
businesses. Maybe you need more input from the residents of the community. Many were not even aware of this plan! 
No multi-family dwellings or business is in White City. Single family dwellings only with maintained property
Love the little ‘police station’ at 94th & Poppy. The crack-house look right next door to it is interesting. No code enforcement there 
either, I guess
I’d like to existing homeowner/landlords to clean up thei properties. 
Leave White City as it is!!!!
We moved to White city because of the small town feel, the friendly neighbors, the walk ability, and the closeness to other places. 
Please do not make this area a mixed use area. We live on Hollyhock Avenue, just on the other side of 106th. We are very concerned 
about the effects of mixed use properties on the safety and desirability of our neighborhood.
just to be left as a “”bedroom community”” and to be encouraged to keep property neat and clean thank you
I’d like to keep the residential feel and relatively low traffic of White City and see more streetlights.
We became separate and didn’t integrate with Sandy so we could stay united as a community and no one wants businesses we are 
a residential area that’s what people believed wouldn’t change so it would be very discouraging if we were misled into thinking we 
would stay a safe family residential community and be turned into Sandy that we didn’t want
White City needs sidewalks everywhere, bike lanes, repairs to streets, gutters and curbs. Residents need to be forced to take care of 
landscaping and have no weeds and to repair their homes with new roofs and siding, paint, windows, etc. Streets should be modified 
for more trees, narrow in spots to slow traffic and attractive entrances into the town.
I like ordinances that make it harder to remove large trees, that encourage natural or artificial shade, that keep homes small, that 
encourage foot traffic over vehicles, and that protect darkness at night (so late night pedestrians don’t lose their dark adaptation from 
blinding lights).
We desperately want a local pub or restaurant in the area. Something that we could walk to on cooler evening and actually enjoy 
within white city instead of having to go to Sandy or Draper. 
No not at this time.
I wish we would have just merged with Sandy.
I grew up in White City, and I love living here now. Would love to see more life and modernization in the area.
Now more than ever with the rise of work from home situations, I think we will see the demand for walkability and conveyance of 
mixed use be a high priority for residents looking to move here. 
  - Page 169
This township was forced on us. We would have done better if we could have incorporated into our neighbor Sandy City. I’d like that 
to be a possibility.
Once again please consider what you have done to our neighborhood by allowing a walkway without protection for homes that 
back the walkway. Without privacy fencing - at least 12 ft tall - but 15-20 ft is really needed our crime will continue to increase, our 
children continue to be at risk, and no enjoyment had by those living along the walkway. Who wants to live in a fishbowl. Shame on 
the approval to move forward on this project without planning for privacy for the citizen’s already living in the space! 
White City is a suburb. Don’t make it into a mixed use.
survey options, that don’t have to have pictures. feed back that allows everybody to leave responses
I like White City to remain a residential only community without commercial development or mixed use.
Maximize Freedom and flexibility and limit corporate government oversite.
I realize that this “”community”” needs a tax base. In the long run the committees are going to do what they want. Asking residents to 
upload pictures is crazy. Especially the older residents. We need to keep our township clean and help neighbors with their property. 
We have residents that have junk all over the yards and have for years. Maybe thats a good place to start?
I’m not sure what needs to be said to make it clear that the majority of residents in White City want developers to basicly leave us 
alone. The community has been sucessful for 60 years. NO NEW GRAND PLANS!
Create progressive areas to bond move ins to community. Keep home ownership in the community. Aganist realtors and investors 
buying properties and turning them into rentals or duplex’s. I’m ok with residents who rely on short term rental income, with strict 
rules (ie No parties). Being owner occupied and renting part of the home helps insure that guest renters are screened. Ratings help 
insure that the home and yard is kept in good shape. Quality owners and guests contribute to the community. 
We feel that this survey is slanted toward incorporating mixed use development into White City whether we want it or not. Is there 
anyplace in White City that is not already occupied by residential homes other than schools, parks, and churches? Who is volunteering 
to tear down their homes in order to add mixed use development? (All of the normal places for development have already been 
annexed into Sandy City.) We like the community as a residential community. Encourage clean and orderly residences/yards.
I think there are very few areas where mixed use could make sense in White City, but I am in favor of looking for ways to allow more 
home based businesses. If mixed use was incorporated I would support a model that allows a home to be used as a business, but also 
has to maintain a residential unit on site to maintain sense of community. Or not allow major changes that wouldn’t allow it to easily 
be used as a residence by the next owner. And I would limit it to specific areas instead of community wide.
I am old-fashioned and like White City the way it is now with no changes. I have lived here for 35 years.
White City General Plan - Page 170
Area Needs and Priorities Survey  Results
This survey is intended for residents of White City Metro Township and will inform White City’s ongoing 
General Plan. Responses guide your neighbors on the General Plan Steering Committee in developing 
goals and actions related to land use in White City. Thanks for taking the time to help shape White City’s 
future!
The survey takes approximately 5-10 minutes to complete. 
Questions 1-5 ask about observations specific to different areas in White City. Refer to the map to 
identify the areas (the Character Area Map on page 47 of this General Plan). Consider a wide variety of 
likes, dislikes, and opportunities. For example, you can comment on the amount of crosswalks, neigh -
borly relationships, yard maintenance, streetscape aesthetics, access to trails, the need for a specific 
road sign, etc. Why is this information helpful? Area-specific feedback helps the Steering Committee 
and planning staff identify spatial goals, such as “Improve street lighting in X area. ” 
1. Consider the area around 10600 South. Please share anything you like, dislike, or see as an opportu -
nity for improvement specifically in this area.
The South side of 106th South that have remained unused and vacant for more than a decade.
We need lights and sidewalks
We live behind the raceway which is generally quiet unless there is a parking lot event. The traffic and ambulances and fire trucks are 
noisy but we can live with the noise.
This area is appropriate for commercial development. An East/West commenter train could also be added to this area. Multi-family 
housing development in this area would be appropriate also.
The traffic light is too short for the crosswalk and you have to run to get across the road that needs to have a longer time frame
The street crossing for the bike trail sound be a raised street crossing with and island in the middle. This will create a safe crossing and 
slow traffic down
The only improvement I would like to see happen is people maintaining their property a little better.
The canal trail crossing at 106th is very cumbersome to have to go down to 700 East to cross. Often I just turn around at that point and 
am generally unwilling to make the crossing. I wish it was easier access to cross the street near the trail.
The canal trail crossing at 106th is quite burdensome. I often just turn around at 106th since taking the time to cross the street at 7th 
East is a perceived challenge. I’d like to see the gas station go and see more small businesses like the chocolate cottage.
Rezoning to multi family homes and buisnesses
Rebuild with a grocery store and shopping area, where the rock church was. Fill in that lot with stores.
Please keep it residential.
Please don’t make the area on 10600 south mixed use. We like that it’s all residential. We live on hollyhock and are concerned about 
what that would do to our block. We have little kids and would feel unsafe with businesses in our backyard.
Nothing comes to mind.
Nothing
Not in favor of any more businesses in this area.
No opinion.
Many homes have upgraded their landscaping. However, there are still many who do not maintain the property. Hundreds of thousands 
of people travel up and down 10600 South and see the images. Many of these properties are rental units and have such small front 
yards, driveways, etc. that it creates a hazard. Wider or curved frontal driveways would reduce risk and look better.
  - Page 171
Like the single family homes on 10600 South. Keep that neighborhood feel.
Keep 106 residencial! People don’t want businesses in their backyards.
I would like it if people would take care of their yards more, but otherwise, I like the area and don’t really want to see a lot of change.
I think this area would be a good area for businesses.
I think it’s important to preserve the rights of home owners already living up 106 South. I understand the desire to have more oppor -
tunities for businesses, but that shouldn’t come at the expense of residents. A cross walk or other pedestrian safety measure would be 
a welcome addition at the intersection of 106 S and the Canal Trail. I witness many jaywalkers bolt across the road to get to the other 
side of the trail, and to be honest, I can understand. The cross walk at the light is quite a ways away.
I like the sidewalks on both sides and that we have trees along most of it. It’s also nice to have the cross walk at 1000th east, the 
midpoint between the two big intersections.
I like the residential nature of 10600 S to provide a nice contrast to the busier Main Street area. It prevents us from turning into the 
awful garbage pile that currently is Salt Lake City. A strip mall is a great way to destroy the neighborhood.
I like the rec center on the south side. I like the nice wide road. Traffic moves nicely here. The left turn up near mcdonalds is a nice 
improvement.
I like the area the way it is now, as residential area. I don’t want anything to change for it at all.
I like it how it is and would not enjoy it changing to a non residential area. Street lamps would be nice.
I like it as it is.
I know that commercial has been thrown around for this area, and I’m not completely opposed to it as long as it is well-planned and 
not a series of hap-hazard strip malls that are frequently vacant. It does depend, however, on how many homes are actually OWNED 
as opposed to rented.
I cannot think of anything that I dislike too much. 10600s is an easy to manage quick road to important arteries without feeling too 
crowded or obnoxious for what it is. When walking/jogging I try to avoid it as much as possible since it is loud and less pleasant, but it 
can be avoided without too much trouble.
Getting off the Canal Trail with a bike and trailer is difficult at many of the breaks at streets. I have to stop and wiggle Mike bike and my 
2yr olds trailer around.. so difficult.
For the most part, I like it.
Encourage clean up of yards.
Dislike, this area is not congested as is and is only used as a raceways at night and early hrs of the morning. Widening this road will 
cause more problems and take lower income house away from people who do not have funds to buy hosuing in the higher market.
Better crossing for the canal trail. Ideally a separated crossing.
Add a crosswalk at the canal trail
A crosswalk would be nice where the trail passes on 10600 south (about across from Brews on 7th).
A code needs to be written and enforced for junk in yards and dead grass, weeds, etc. There is a definite difference between the North 
and South sides of 106th. We need sidewalk improvements and beautification.
10600 s. is fine to me. A little busy, but nothing that can really be changed. I really don’t think commercial would do well along 10600 
s. if that’s what you are asking.
1.A lot of vehicles run red lights at 106 S. and Carnation. What can be done about this? 2. What’s up with the vacant lot next to big five 
sports? What are the plans for this space? 3. It could always look better if people put a little more effort into their yards. 4. I dislike that 
crime is drastically increased in our area.
2. Consider the area around Sego Lily Drive. Please share anything you like, dislike, or see as an oppor -
tunity for improvement specifically in this area.
We need to add sidewalks along Sego Lily Drive, there currently are none. This would make it easier for students to walk to and from 
schools safely, also make it safer for people to walk up and down the street as well.
We need lights and sidewalks
traffic control would be nice.
This would be a great boulevard. There’s plenty of room for trees in the middle which would make the street feel more like a neighbor -
hood and community rather than a busy throughway.
White City General Plan - Page 172
This road would be a great boulevard. There’s room for trees in the median and would help improve the feel of the community.
This is a very busy road that is frustrating as a vehicle and as a pedestrian. I’m unsure of how it could be improved. Sidewalks is 
probably the biggest improvement. I feel uncomfortable driving it. “Will I hit someone?” “I’m going too fast, crap. ” and “Shit, another 
crosswalk. ” are common thoughts. Overall, it does not seem to be an intuitive road. There are sections where there are no sidewalk, 
which I think is the maybe most of the problem with it feeling uncomfortable, as both a pedestrian and as a driver. With the new Canal 
Trail, there is easier access to walk Sego Lily. Once free from the protected trail you emerge right on a road that’s much bigger than a 
normal side-residential road where it wouldn’t be a bother. You are left either walking a bit into people’s front yards, or gambling your 
life walking on the road-side of parked cars. I avoid Sego Lily as both a driver and pedestrian as much as possible.
This area needs sidewalks!
There needs to be a traffic light at the new crosswalk that was installed on sego Lily after the trail opened up people disregard the 
lights and blow through the crosswalk it is quite dangerous for people to use. The city and eastmont need to get together about the 
traffic conditions in the morning of parents exiting eastmont from the top parking lot. There is a no left turn sign and parents will turn 
right and then flip a u-turn on sego Lily to continue to go East which causes even more traffic problems in the morning. There needs to 
be sidewalks all the way down sego Lily they’re also needs to be a cross guard at the top crosswalk for eastmont closest to 1300 East 
for students use. The car eating manhole covers going east of sego Lily. Street lights
There is a tall stone fence on the corner of Sego Lily & Poppy Lane (northeast corner) which makes it impossible to turn from Sego Lily 
onto Poppy Lane safely. If there is anyone walking there or even a car parked there, it would be easy to have an accident.
The speed limit is way too low and varies from the parts of Sego Lily that are in Sandy. It would be nice if White City and Sandy would 
work together to plan Sego Lily so that it’s consistent.
The road could use repair - like a good rip out and new, not another coating-- its extremely rough. Other than than that, I LOVE this 
area and have lived here for 21 years - and directly across the gully since I was born. I do NOT want any changes to structures, traffic, 
housing, ect. Leave us alone... PLEASE.
The majority of properties surrounding this area are residential. This area should remain primarily residential. Some multi-use zoning 
could possibly be appropriate though restrictions would need to be made to maintain the integrity of the community. Honestly, the 
road needs to be completely revamped. I personally believe sidewalks on both sides and remove the center turning lane!!! Flow of 
traffic WILL slow down. If studies have proven this to be true then let’s go with studies!! I support East/West single lane traffic flow, 
no middle ‘turning’ lane, bicycle lanes both sides (painted), side walks, curb and gutter on north and south sides of the street! Center 
island with trees! Yes, let’s make it look as charming as we KNOW our community is!!
Sidewalks, traffic calming\slowing improvements
Sidewalks would be a good think to have on sego lily drive. Kids walk to school on the side of the street right now.
Sidewalks on the West end would be nice. We should coordinate with Sandy City to make Sego Lily where it runs through White City, 
consistent with Sego Lily where it runs West of 700 East and East of 1300 East.
sidewalks needed.
Sidewalks are needed
Sego Lily Drive seems fine and does not need any improvements.
Seems okay.
Same as above. It is nice to drive around an area where families can come together.
Safer/easier turning out of the smiths parking lot to Sego Lilly going west.
Put this road on a diet and give it bike lanes and sidewalks! It is so scary to try and walk or bike along here.
Please put in more measures to slow drivers down. A sidewalk would also be nice.
Not in favor of anything more being built in this area. Do not want any high density housing going in anywhere in this area.
Needs sidewalks
Needs curb, gutter, sidewalks where missing. Needs proper patrol and landscaping to reduce speed and minimize dangerous driving 
habits.
Need sidewalks.
More street lighting is needed on the major artery. Also sidewalks need to be all the way through the area, not just from 13th to 10th. 
Also they need to be on both sides of the street, not the plan that showed a combo bike path on one side. Speed is still an issue on the 
street, any plan to increase the speed limit is not a good idea. They already go 10mph over the speed limit.
  - Page 173
It would be nice to have sidewalks all the way down both sides of the street, and maybe more street lights. I don’t want to see any 
zoning changes or significant widening of the road. A slightly increased speed limit would be nice!
I would like to see the houses and yards looking nicer. Some of the neighbors exteriors and yards just look so trashy and make oír 
neighborhood look ghetto. Every person could receive money that they have to use on the exterior or front yard?
I would like to see sidewalks running the full length.
I would like to see sidewalks on both sides of the road. Maybe more speed bumps, I dont like how everyone treats it like a speed way.
I would like to have sidewalks.
I truly do not drive on Sego Lily often. It seems like a good road. Some corners are a bit hard to see around, but not much can be done 
in that regard.
I love the new walking trail. Sego Lily needs bushes trimmed and Flint Drive badly needs speed bumps.
I like the width of the street
I like the lower speed limit. It helps the neighborhood feel safer. Crossing guards working at the bottom of the hill near Eastmont 
Middle school report frequent speeding possibly due to the steep hill facilitating acceleration.
I do not use that road frequently and have no strong opinions on it’s use at this time other than to note that if any commercial or multi 
family development is being considered, I would prefer not to have lots of high-rise/density multi-story buildings.
Have people clean up their ugly yards and old cars. Better lighting all along sego lily. Have something out for people that think they 
can go 40 in a 25 mile zone.
Exact same. I want it to stay the same. White City is already developed, we don’t need to change things.
Dislike the slow speed limit. Should be 35mph
Dislike the fact people treat Sego Lily like a race track. Also I would like to see sidewalk all the way up and down both sides of Sego Lily.
Change speed limit to 35mph between 700 and 1300 east
Bike lanes and sidewalks would be a nice addition to this street
Better sidewalks would be nice.
Add sidewalks on both sides where there are no sidewalks.
A nice road to bike and connect to other major roads and trails.
1. I’m disappointed they’re putting in another car wash, across from 7-Eleven. Seems like the last thing we need in a desert. 2. The 
White city water improvement District work yard sure looks like a big crap heap.
3. Consider the area around the Canal Trail. Please share anything you like, dislike, or see as an oppor -
tunity for improvement specifically in this area.
You should make it easier to cross Larkspur with a bike. The access pinches off to where it is difficult to negotiate it on a bicycle.
Wonderful addition to this community
Weed control in the summer
We need some landscaping attention! The trail especially between 10600 and the gulley is a minefield of goat heads. We enjoy the 
trail immensely and appreciate all the effort that was put into getting developed in the first place and use it frequently, however the 
goat heads and stickers are a huge nuisance and make it very expensive to enjoy the trail on bikes because of the expense of replacing 
tires all the time.
We need lights and sidewalks
We have property that borders the Canal Trail and have had no problems with it. We see it is used very regularly and are happy about 
that, although we haven’t used it yet.
TREES!! Plant trees along the path .. shade & sitting tables. Work out stations! How about an air compressor for bicycle tires? Goat head 
thorns!! These need to go!! How about a water station .. you know, someplace you can fill a water bottle? Also.. safe access to the gully 
would be nice! You know ... a designated access area near the bridge .. on both sides!
Too many bright lights along the path at night, either from backyards or the sports field lights from the nearby park.
White City General Plan - Page 174
This has increased the homeless and drug use. The trail needs to be maintained for weeds and needs to have some type of crime watch
There needs to be a mitigation pan for goatheads. These weeds pop bike tires making the trail not as desirable to ride. More green 
space next in areas there is room next to the trail would help.
The trail is lovely. Personally I am not fond of over-manicured landscaping. It feels like a departure from the natural local vegetation 
that should be grown, but I am probably an outlier. I hope in the future the trail will feel less like new construction and will gain some 
larger vegetation and mature plants. Rosehips, scrub oak, sagebrush, and other native grasses would be great additions. I love seeing 
more low-water, and biodiverse areas to improve the valley for wildlife and overall natural health. (We must give more homes for local 
insects and of course, quail. :D)
The trail is almost unusable to ride bikes on because of how many goatheads are always on the paths. I’ve gotten 3 flat tires on that 
trail, and now I just stick to the roads instead of using it.
The trail has had some nice improvements lately.
The cross walk passing Larkspur Drive is extremely dangerous. Drivers come speeding down the road and the path crosses at a slight 
hill. Drivers will not be able to see pedestrians from a distance and I see this area as very dangerous. Maybe put in speed bumps in this 
area to slow drivers down. I love the new addition of the trail. Good work to everyone involved! Now just some minor improvements 
needed.
The canal trail really needs to be xeriscaped. There are tons of bikers and walkers with dogs and the area is over run with goat head 
weeds. Considering that is what the trail is for the weeds are dangerous and costly. We have popped several tires on our bikes when 
riding this trail.
The canal trail needs better functioning and better signed crossings. The Galena crossing is too far from the main trail to be discovered. 
The whole trail needs better maintenance to remove goat heads and other weeds. Please provide landscape, especially trees! The trail 
is too exposed to be useful during the summer.
The canal trail is a great addition to our community. I would like to see some type of landscaping or just general maintenance done, 
such as weed control, controlling people who are throwing their cut tree branches over their fence to get them out of their yards, etc. 
I also would like to know if the trail will be maintained in the winter so people can still use it.
The Canal Trail has been amazing since it was completed, however it’s absolutely full of goat’s heads/thorns. I am always hesitant to 
take a bicycle on this trail or even my dogs because there’s such a high chance of getting a thorn. In addition to getting rid of those, it 
would be so nice if this trail were landscaped a bit more. The bridge over Dimple Dell is amazing!
The canal in its entirety needs park benches every so many yards lamps or lights a crosswalk painted on the asphalt and crosswalk 
lights put in on larkspur drive at the canal trail. There needs to be fence and vegetation put in in the Gap along carnation by the bridge 
on the south side of the neighborhood. Safety fence on the south side of the bridge like there is on the north side of the bridge right 
at the entrance of the bridge. Use the space along the north side of the trail just past the bridge as a possible community garden ran 
by community residents we have so many talented people that could do that and so many residents that could use that garden or a 
community garden somewhere inside of White City
Soooooooo many goathead thorns. Helping people privatize their back yards. Landscape this area
Some people’s yards reek of dog poo. This isn’t pleasant while on a walk. Speaking of dogs, please put up doggy bags for people to 
pick up after their dogs and trash cans. If people can’t clean up after their dogs please prohibit dogs on the path. Benches would be 
nice along the path.
Possible needs include weed control and landscaping. The trail is nice although privacy has been lost for residents whose backyards 
line the trail.
No changes are needed
Needs plants & trees along entire path. This would not only increase the beauty of the trail, but would provide needed privacy for the 
homes on the trail.
Love the trail. Woukd pimento see better weed control along it.
Love the trail! I love the new paved trail and bridge. My only concern is the pokey weeds that have been taking over. I’ve gotten a 
couple of flat tires along the trail.
Love the new bridge. Like the homes and quiet neighborhood feel.
  - Page 175
Lights and poop bags to encourage owners to pick up after their animals
Lighting along the trail, that is directional and on a motion sensor, with the exception of the bridge, that should have lighting on at 
night. Keeping the weeds down and the goats heads under control will be a good idea. The trail is fantastic
Leave as is
Landscaping
Keep the weeds and trash cleared. Keep it simple, natural.
It would make the trail much prettier and more relaxing if the backyards of several of the homes along the trail could be encouraged 
or helped with getting fences. Some of the backyards are very concerning. The first time we walked the trail, we were actually shocked 
at how some of the yards looked - yikes! Wondered if we should call DCFS or other authorities to check things out for safety.
It needs to be maintained- they let goat head thorns grow and now they are in yards, in bike tires, shoes and pet paws. They sprayed 
them, which is worse bc once they die you NEVER get rid of them. Very angry about this, as I tore up my entire yard to get rid of them 
and now they are back. I am also angry that between Sego and Galina, they built the trail up so high and all of my privacy is gone. And 
to have to pay for a fence extension is expensive AND I have to get a building permit. If my privacy was secure and the weeds were 
gone, it would be perfect.
It is ABSOLUTELY irresponsible of the Township, County, and City to not have a privacy wall for residents whose backyards back the 
canal. The privacy and safety of residents should be the #1 priority. It should not be the homeowners responsibility to put up a wall for 
a PUBLIC walkway. Taxes should cover the expenses. It is a nominal one time expense to the citizens as a whole for the benefit of the 
walkway. If the county and public want a walkway, hey should pay for the comfort, privacy and safety of that walkway to the citizens 
most impacted by it.
is it possible to provide grants/funding for fencing in people’s backyards? some of the homes do have nicer front yards, but their back 
yards leave the impression that this is a “run-down” community. Not everyone has time to focus on backyard landscaping, and a fence 
would help with community image. PLEASE provide more garbage cans and dog-baggie stations. I’m not a fan of all the dog poop 
that people don’t pick up. Also, the goat heads have wrought havoc on bike tires! They need to really be pulled, not sprayed so they 
just go to seed!
I would like to see more greenery and sitting places along the trail.
I wish there were more uniform fences- I feel bad seeing into everyone’s backyard. Also, some more lighting at night would be nice.
I very much appreciate the Canal Trail and the new bridge connecting the two sides over the gulley. I think increased lighting could 
be good just for safety purposes along the trail. I have often wondered if neighbors along the trail would benefit from being offered a 
tall privacy fence, as some of the existing walls are quite short and don’t provide much privacy.
I really love having access to this trail and use it almost daily. I’d love to see more landscaping done trailside. Planting some trees to 
provide shade and some native plants alongside the trail will not only add beauty but hopefully reduce invasive species like goat 
heads. Goat heads should be sprayed for, they are a problem! Also crossing Larkspur can be very difficult on a bike, too tight of turns 
to stay on the trail.
I love the trail! I get scared, as a 27 year old woman, to go in there alone though. Maybe some patrolling could be nice!
I love the paved trail. I think we need a fance, to keep the property’s that back the trail, save and some privacy
I love the new bridge! It looks great and makes it so easy to access the other half of White city!
I love having access to the canal trail and use it daily. I would like to see more landscaping alongside the trail with trees to eventually 
shade the trail and native plants to both beautify and keep invasive species, like goat heads, at bay. The trail should be sprayed for goat 
heads, they are a real problem. Crossings are generally good, but Larkspur crossing can be very awkward and difficult to navigate on 
a bike, the turns are too tight.
I like the recent upgrades to the trail with crosswalks. It
I honestly haven’t used it all that much, but it always seems to be fairly dark on the trail, which is a little concerning near sunset/night.
High fences around unkept yards
Great value in having this to use. Encourage more use. For safety purposes it might be wise to install cameras so illegal activities can 
be reduced.
White City General Plan - Page 176
Getting off the Canal Trail with a bike and trailer is difficult at many of the breaks at streets. I have to stop and wiggle Mike bike and my 
2yr olds trailer around.. so difficult.
Get rid of the goat horns!! They are horrendous!
Get rid of puncture weeds.
Fun recreational activities.
Enjoy walking on the trail. We like the connection between the north and south areas of White City. Encourage dog owners to clean 
up after their pets. Maintain and control weeds.
Dislike: - lack of safety for anyone after dark (no lighting, cameras etc) - lack of privacy provided by construction of trail Like: - ease of 
access
Better fencing so we can’t see everyone’s backyard. Also, so many goat heads! Let’s get that under control so I can stop popping my 
bike tires. Maybe rocks in the canal to help keep weeds down.
1. Better maintenance with removal of the weeds. Put in plants that are Desert friendly. 2. Trash cans at Each intersection where the 
trail crosses over the street would be great. With Plastic bags for dog poop removal 3. At Carnation right above 7th east right before 
you get to the bridge they need to paint a crosswalk there. 4. Maybe in the middle of each trail you could put a bench for people that 
are walking to rest on or take a break.
4. Consider the “Southern Spur” area - the agricultural area south of 10600 South (marked “B”). Please 
share anything you like, dislike, or see as an opportunity for improvement specifically in this area.
We should have s more distinguished entry and maintain the space for horse property. Keep it residential unless it more than 60% of 
the space is not used for horses. Then we should consider options of semi condensed housing and commercial.
We need lights and sidewalks
Used to be beautiful, but they really let it go. It’s a shame. The owners should either care for it or move on.
This looks like something people would want to develop, but we really DO still need some open space, and the horse property isn’t 
causing any problems.
This area is great and I hope it doesn’t change. I like living close to horse property and farms.
This area could be developed for commercial use. It is ideal without taking people’s homes away from them.
Support those keeping animals on their land.
Seems fine from driving by. Can think of no improvements or changes needed.
Provide incentives for people to not develop/ subdivide there horse properties. Such as land trusts or tax benefits
Preserve it! Do something with it for the public, like Wheeler Farm or a U-pick orchard. DO NOT develop it for retail. That would just sit 
empty and look bad. If it must be developed keep it residential to help the housing shortage.
Our kids love taking walks to see the horses! We hope that the horses will remain!
No changes please
Nice area
Love the remnants of what the area used to be. Nice to have the horse trail nearby.
Let this agricultural section in the southern spur stay an agricultural section please allow for the contemplation of a community garden
Leave it the way that it is.
Leave as is.
Keeping this area as an agricultural/horse property is essential. We are so fortunate to have this in the area adjacent to the horse trails 
in Dimple Dell.
  - Page 177
Keep it as it is.
Its good.
Is this land owned by White city? Seems like a prime opportunity for a small retail strip. Right now it’s just a big weed patch. It looks 
bad and just causes more weeds in the area around it.
Is this area still zoned as agricultural, before you do anything wouldn’t that area need to be rezoned.
Is it agricultural? Or is there some commercial dev there?
If White City wanted to add Business Tax revenue. I feel like this area would make the most sense.
I’d like to see this area remain as is. The residents seem happy to be part of the community. I would only suggest the look see at 
possibly paving 1225 E.
I think that area should remain the same. I’m glad we have some agricultural land in White City, and I think we should keep it, as other 
cities have been getting rid of theirs.
I think if you are going to zone something commercial, this are makes the most sense. That being said, there are very few areas left 
on this side of the valley for agriculture uses and it would be a shame to see this area disappear. Would be nice to see some kind of 
agriculture protections put in place that keep that land agriculture no matter who owns it.
I see this becoming a good spot for commercial purposes. Perhaps mixed-use development with first floor businesses and residential 
above. I’d love to have a more natural grocery store close to home (Trader Joe’s, sprouts, etc).
I see this as an opportunity for growth with a commercial influence. Perhaps mixed use with commercial on the main floor and resi -
dential above. I’d love to see a more natural grocery store come, like trader joes or sprouts.
I like that it is more agricultural/horse property and would really like to see it stay that way.
I don’t know much about this area.
I don’t know much about this area or utilize it. No comment.
I didn’t realize that was part of White City boundaries. I do not have any suggestions at this time.
I am not directly involved in anything utilizing that area. I think it is important to listen to the voices of those who do. I know having 
an area for horse related husbandry is important to many. These type of spaces are becoming rare as urban sprawl continues, and I 
believe that area is worth preserving.
Honestly, this is a tough one to say but, that is prime multi-family dwelling property. This area could have property that has businesses 
on bottom level and housing above. Think .. karate dojo & owner lives above; coffee shop & owner lives above, palates studio & owner 
lives above .. the list goes on. Bakery!! Oowner lives above! Covered parking/garage included.
Don’t know much about this area.
Didn’t know this area existed.
5. Consider the other residential areas (properties not bordering 10600 South, Sego Lily, or the Canal 
Trail) (marked “A”). Please share anything you like, dislike, or see as an opportunity for improvement 
specifically in this area.
We are on the South side of the gulley, so most of my thoughts are in regard to this half of white city. I think more efficient streetlights 
are greatly needed. On Buddlea Drive, a fairly large and often used road, there are not many streetlights, and some of the existing 
lights have not worked since we moved in. It seems more and more we are hearing about attempted break ins, people snooping 
around yards, and car break ins/thefts. I believe having more streetlights could greatly help discourage such behaviors. Additionally, I 
think it would be well worth looking into streetlights that angle light downwards to help reduce light pollution. We live in a great area, 
there are ways to improve safety while maintaining our beautiful night skies.
This area does have a lot of people violating zoning ordinances by having more than one family per home. (That can lower property 
values) ANY development here would lower property values. The only thing I’d like to see would be more parking for people using 
Bear Park.
White City General Plan - Page 178
The section of Poppy Lane between Sego Lily & Galena is used as a speedway. The speed limit is 25 mph but, cars are traveling much 
faster than that...especially around the curve on that section. Since this is one of the main streets that runs through White City, a speed 
bump between 9884 & 9874 running between 9889 & 9881 may solve this problem. Also, the stop sign on the south east corner of 
Galena & Poppy Lane is often covered by the tree on that property and needs to be cut back regularly. People tend to not stop there 
because they don’t see the sign....especially when the leaves are on the tree.
The only complaint I have is the lack of people who don’t maintain their property, such as junk everywhere, non running unlicensed 
vehicles sitting in their yards and on the street. At times you can’t walk on the sidewalks because of trees and shrubbery blocking it. I 
don’t expect anyone to keep a home and garden yard, just tidy and maintained.
The gully is great. It would be nice to see this improved. NOT developed but kept up for trails and walking etc.
The deep road dips are annoying, but I don’t know if that’s mandated by a superordinate entity - if these could be made shallower and 
all speed bumps removed, that would be preferred. I would like to see fewer offensively bright lights at night, these are irritating in 
much the same way as very loud sound is.
Square off corners. My home sits on a corner and people speed thru and cut the rounded corner ALL the time!! Sidewalks!!!
Some residents may benefit from knowing more about programs that support house and/or yard maintenance.
Some areas seem dark and could use more streetlights. The addition of sidewalks on Carnation heading east from 700 were a great 
improvement and it would be nice if sidewalks could be added in other areas where they are lacking.
Some areas are extremely run down. Im not sure the best way to fix these areas, however it would be nice for some improvement.
Sidewalks on at least one side of the road would be nice.
Sidewalks & stop or yield signs at cross-sections
Sidewalk corners do not always allow for strollers, wheel chairs and bikes to go off on a ramp. We end up clunking off the edge. It 
would mean so much to have each corner shaved down so we don’t have to deal with this problem anymore!
Side walks could improve the neighborhood areas, along with additional lighting.
Roundabouts at all the stop signs on Carnation. Small roundabouts not giant ones with huge art and landscaping stuff in the middle. 
Keep it simple.
Property maintenance in some area is becoming a problem. More attention to high weeds, junk cars, junk under tarps in the from and 
side yards, and trash in general needs to be addressed and enforced. These unsightly homes bring everyone’s property values down, 
and creates an unhealthy environment.
Please put more lighting in the side neighborhoods and better lighting in the neighborhoods.
No changes.
Need to clean up yards at least maintain a clean weed free front yards
More sidewalks would be an added benefit to the neighborhood. I eould also like to see corners updated to modern corners and not 
so rounded to help prevent people from cutting corners as they drive.
More night time lighting is needed throughput White City. Better sidewalks are also needed.
Many of the residential areas feel pretty unkept. I think that the intersection of Larkspur and Violet Drive should have a stop sign. 
People speed through this all the time and I’ve almost been hit before.
Love the feel of this neighborhood with single family homes a neighborhood pool, park, and elementary schools nearby in safe 
walking distance.
Leave these areas alone, no business, no high density housing at all.
Leave our neighborhoods as they are. We like them.
Keep White City safe, clean, affordable.
Keep them as they are
  - Page 179
It would be appreciated if homeowners and occupants would be required to keep their front yards looking nice (weeds less than 6” 
high, lawns mowed, junk removed, etc). We would welcome enforcement of this rule.
I’d love to be able to do AirBnb at my residence if I choose to do so.
I would like to see the houses and yards looking nicer. Some of the neighbors exteriors and yards just look so trashy and make oír 
neighborhood look ghetto. Every person could receive money that they have to use on the exterior or front yard?
I would like to see more street lighting. I would like to see a stop light at 9400 South and Poppy Lane. If we were to have to evacuate 
quickly for any reason, those of us north of Galena Drive would never make it out of White City. I have lived here for 60+ years. Many 
attempts have been made to put a Stop Light at this intersection, all to no avail. We have one street light on Emerald Drive, none 
on Amber Lane, or Garnet Drive. The only light is from individual house porch lights. Poppy Lane hasn’t a street light either. Very 
dangerous situation.
I would like to see code enforcement go nuts and site everybody in White city. This area is especially bad. Looks trash quite a bit of the 
time. Far too many cars on the street. Multiple families living in a single-family residence. All of these things should be cited. Yards with 
weeds that are out of control. Dilapidated fences, houses that look like nobody cares. If the homes are owned which city should offer 
help to those individuals or get volunteers to help with yard cleanup and home maintenance. If their rentals the landlords should be 
cited for lack of maintenance.
I would consider these areas the heart of White City. Beautiful area, continued street improvement would be nice.
I think they are just fine. They are residential areas just like any other part of this side of the valley. People maintain them as best they 
can. Although White City does an awful job with maintaining all the surface streets... potholes everywhere.
I think our city looks great, and is great. I don’t think we should change anything at all.
I love my neighborhood. Keep it how it is.
I like that they are more affordable houses, and I really don’t want to see a lot of change. I don’t want rezones, and would like to keep 
the character of the area that it has now. I would like more street lighting because some of the areas feel really dark.
I like it.
I generally really enjoy not having sidewalks in my neighborhood. The streets are quiet and wide enough that I don’t feel like my safety 
is threatened, or my children. Although larger or busier streets should have sidewalks, like Poppy drive to access the park. Some homes 
can be unkept, but I don’t know how to improve that. Buildings should have restrictions on height and character to match what is 
already here. I’d hate for an older home to be taken down and to build some new tall, big house that is not in character.
I generally am okay with no sidewalks in the area as the roads and streets are quiet enough and I feel safe. I like the neighborhood 
feel with no sidewalk. However main arterials or busier streets should have them, specifically on Poppy Drive to access the park. There 
should be priority for new construction to match the height and character of current buildings. I’d hate to see some older homes torn 
down to build new, tall, out of character homes.
I dislike the lack of street lights.. Also there should be a four way stop sign at onyx and poppy lane. The large dips make the N/S bound 
traffic slow down and it confuses people.
Help those on the canal trail to privatize their back yards
For people to have clean front yards and side yards and more information either mailed or stuck to the door of the home that you 
do not park on the road from November 1st to April 1st. And for people not to park over the sidewalk with car sticking out of their 
driveway and also the sidewalk from Carnation to sego Lily that gaps the road and bridge over the goalie on 7th East needs to be 
shoveled and snow removed during winter months. There needs to be stop signs put at the end of road such as hibiscus and and 
amaryllis and verbena and amaryllis they’re also needs to be more Ada accessible sidewalk entrances. stop sign should truly be put on 
the ends of every street that doesn’t already have a stop sign
Encourage clean up of yards. Continue to repair/replace gutters and sidewalks as funds allow.
Big Bear park traffic flow is awful during regular years. Need seperate in/out or additional parking lot in NW corner. Overall, it’s a good 
community, but the population and traffic is growing. We don’t need to do things that would attract even more people and traffic.
All roads need to be lined with side walks. Those properties not maintained need to he assessed if left derelict for more than 3yrs. We 
need to offer assistance through our community for elderly or disabled to help out and those unqualified for assistance should be 
fined by the county.
Adding sidewalks on all streets, more street lighting
White City General Plan - Page 180
Add sidewalks and bike lanes to key streets, such as Poppy, Galena, Flint, Carnation and Larkspur. Need a continuous system for people 
to use and feel safe on these thru streets.
A1 - A area on 9400 South —> prime commercial area A2 - A area bordering 700 East, south of the gully .. multi family housing similar 
to what is currently south of there. This area could be transitional .. multi family housing that transitions into duplex .. that transitions 
to what is currently there. A3 - A area where Carnation intersects with 700 East .. possibly multi-use zone? I can envision a small cafe, 
coffee shop, breakfast shop, childcare facilities in this area. Again, transitioning to the Quaint and Charming Neighborhood Township 
that is White City Township. A4 - A area west of canal, north of gully and east of 700 east and south of Tulip .. multi family housing in 
the form of duplexes & fourplexes. NO APARTMENT COMPLEXES!! AND NO HOUSING BUTTING UP AGAINST THE GULLY!! But, dang, that 
could make it very valuable housing with the nature walk RIGHT there!!
A stoplight at Larkspur and Violet Dr. Both roads feel like the “main road” and I see a lot of careless drivers speed through that intersec -
tion (especially on Violet Dr.). If it was clear one direction or the other is the through street, or make it obvious to treat it as a four-way 
(I know it already should, but it isn’t always observed.) The upgrades to Carnation off 700e are amazing. For years that narrow section 
of road has been a disaster waiting to happen for pedestrians accessing 700e and the park. With the additional sidewalks it is SO 
much safer. However, now that the (amazing) sidewalks have been added, I am concerned that the south-east corner is not wheelchair 
friendly. (It wasn’t before either) The stone sound-barrier/fence from 700e extends into the narrow sidewalk. I hate to disrupt the 
house on that corner any more than necessary, but the sidewalk is still narrow. Is it ADA compliant? If it is, great, ignore more. :)
  - Page 181
6. The following statements have arisen from previous public feedback and Steering Committee discus -
sions. How are important are the following?
White City General Plan - Page 182
7. Land use policies in White City are:
43 responses.
  - Page 183
8. What do you believe local government’s priorities should be with respect to the development of 
private property?

White City General Plan - Page 184
9. Use this space to share any additional thoughts on area needs and land priorities that you have.
White City Township is a unique area that is very safe and is a very nice place to live. By changing it you may cause unforeseen conse -
quences that will ruin a good thing.
We would like to maintain White City as single family residences. Would like to see continued upgrade and repair of sidewalks and 
gutters. Also would like yards to be neat and clean.
we should be able to have mother in law apartments or renters.
We really need more lights around the neighborhood
We need to address homes that are renting out their basements, we need an accurate count of those and make rules and inspections 
to make them legal, and up to code. Parking at these addresses is a real problem.
This proposal has come up for the past 3 yrs in different fashions. Stop trying to take peoples homes away to add business and widen 
roads in our area (106000th projects) they are not needed or wanted. We have spoken against these projects every time they come up 
and our comments are ignored and new proposals keep being brought in. You have a community of people that fear for the removal 
of homes they have lived in for years. These house are not of higher value, we can not move to a newer home with the higher values 
in this market. This year has been bad enough stop adding stress to your residents!
This is basically a lower income area now. If people struggle with their yard maintenance, and it bothers you, then the local govern -
ment should figure out a way to help them. It's their property to do with as they wish. My neighbor's yard is usually an eye sore, but it's 
none of my business and if I were to want to make it the government's business, then the government should try to help, not punish.
There should be some sort of improved or increased commercial district to provide more taxes and funds for projects, rather than 
taxing the small number of businesses higher.
The creation of the walkway has utterly ignored the privacy and safety of the residents whose homes back the canal. We are no longer 
able to enjoy our backyards. No longer safe from trespassers that were not so much a problem before the canal was built. No longer 
able to sit outside without strangers stopping to looking your backyard or back doors/windows. It is an utter invasion of basic privacy. 
Shame on White City for putting the burden and expense of a privacy wall for a PUBLIC walkway for many, on only those residents 
affected. Put your home, children, life, privacy in our position and see how you would enjoy the same. So disappointing. Such a let 
down. And such an embarrassment. Landscaping and trail maintenance should have also been considered.
Remember this is a township not a city. Don’t make us bigger than we are now. It’s worked for 60 plus years don’t change it because 
you see a potential short gain that in the end will cost the citizens of White “City” (township) more.
Open space is a priority. The tendency of urban sprawl from Salt Lake City and slow encroachment of multi storied buildings like in 
Sandy City should be resisted. The loss of quality of life is not worth the price of gaining tax base. It's like selling your soul.
One possible option would be xeriscaping of yards give the home owner a discount on water costs. The yard plan should need to be 
approved by An appropriately trained landscaper. So people just don’t do crazy crap in their yard and say it’s low water maintenance.
No tear down and rebuilt- leave that up to the home owners. No high density housing no matter what.
Low income housing is not a good idea. We also should not put a strip mall on 10600 S. It’s a way to destroy the neighborhood and 
increase traffic.this would mean increasing green house emissions in our area and worsen air quality if the strip mall is approved.
Love the neighborhood would like to see more people care abouy the look of their homes and the neighborhood.
Keep White City single family residential.
It is important to me that the neighborhood maintains mostly single-family homes, but I have zero concern about new construction 
or remodels that deviate from the current style. I like diversity. Homes can look however the owner wants them to look. While a multi -
ple-story apartment would not be okay. A purple home with a giant mushroom dog-house out front is perfectly fine.
I'd rather see increase in commercial district rather than increasing the taxes of the small amount of businesses that are here.
I would love to have more streetlights on Amaryllis Street, specifically south of Larkspur.
I want to keep white city they way it is and has been. No new development housing or outside land development people coming in 
and trying to take our housing land to build apartments or anything else
  - Page 185
I think White City is great as it is and does not need any major changes. And it definitely doesn't need rezoning of ANY kind.
I love the idea of grants to help the neighborhood look nicer. Sometimes I am embarrassed of my neighborhood because of the 
people who do not upkeep their yards or homes
I firmly believe we can find an answer that will bring us successfully into the next thirty years. Times have changed tremendously since 
I moved here (1967) We must move forward. We must make difficult decisions. We can retain the quaint and charming community, 
but it will definitely look different. Population will only get larger, we have a civic and moral obligation to plan for the future, difficult 
decisions and sacrifices must be made. Oh! A community garden would be super awesome also!! Not everyone is LDS, so, the garden 
off Poppy doesn’t ‘fit the bill’! A community garden could support a community farmers market . A White City Township Community 
Center with classes and DAY CARE!! (REVENUE) This would be an awesome opportunity for our community!!
I feel like many of the questions contained in this survey are leading. If you want to change White City, just come out and say it, please. 
It's disrespectful to your residents for you to try to garner support for redevelopment via carefully constructed and leading questions/
surveys.
I believe whoever occupies a property, be it a renter or homeowner, that property needs to look nice. No broken cars on lawn (or on 
the street for weeks on end), no 4 foot tall weeds and other such eyesores. It's not fair for those of us residing who care for our property 
to have a neighbor that is lazy and thoughtless.
I absolutely am not in favor of high-density housing in White City. I believe that traditional neighborhoods do need to be preserved, 
especially this one that is so close to nature with Dimple Dell, and also not right on the TRAX line. Any master plan should strongly 
reflect the values of a traditional neighborhood.
First off let the residents know what White City land policies are cuz I have no idea and I've lived here 35 years. See more transparency 
with our community council steering committee and our mayor.
Do people really value the existing style of the structures in White city? I don't think there is hardly anything of merit here. The house 
style is generally incredibly boring and cookie-cutter, not to mention somewhat ugly. I think all types of building styles should be 
encouraged.
An elderly neighbor on our street is in dire need of a new roof, but does not have the money to replace it. It looks like the roof may 
collapse soon if not replaced. Are there any grants available to help him?
White City General Plan - Page 186
Questions 10-11 (optional) ask how you participate in the General Planning process. The Steering 
Committee and Planning Staff value public input. Answering these questions helps us make participa -
tion increasingly easier.
10. How have you participated in the planning process so far? Select all that apply.
11. What is the best way for you to participate in the planning process?
  - Page 187
Questions 12-14 (optional) ask about your demographics. We use this information to understand if our 
survey responses are representative of the White City community.
12. Select your gender:
13. Select your age range (in years):
14. Select the racial or ethnic identity(ies) that describe you. Select all that apply.

White City General Plan - Page 188
“Share Your Thoughts”: Online Comment Box Results
Online Comment Boxes asked residents about their reactions to each of the following chapters: All 
About Planning, Community Engagement, Community Background, Land Use, and Transportation. 13 
sets of responses were collected with a total of eight written comments. 
Pg 18 - Since Blight is not being used as the legal term, maybe consider changing the term and eliminate the 
confusion. Maybe: Reduce property and home disrepair and dilapidation.
In every meeting that I have attended, it has been made abundantly clear that the majority of people want 
White City to remain single-family housing. I am honestly astounded that this conversation is still ongoing. 
I live on Hollyhock Avenue. The idea that the buildings behind me could be turned into businesses is very 
disheartening. We moved here to have a quiet lifestyle where we could enjoy the neighborhood and our back 
yard, raise our family, go on walks, and enjoy friendly neighbors. As I have talked to neighbors and friends 
that live in White City, I have found that they want the same things. How would this general plan contribute to 
that goal? I was also frustrated that Boulder CO was referenced as a model to develop White after. the average 
house in Boulder is on sale for around for $800,000 as compared to White City’s average of around $300,000. 
With that difference alone, it is ridiculous that people would make that a realistic goal for White city.
Pg 5 - add a heading to the diagram and decrease its size to fit within the margins Pg 16 - connectivity issues 
on the map are hard to see. Maybe a bold color instead of black? Pg 18 - I think Carnation Dr should be consid -
ered and shown on the map as a major or minor collector street.
I would like to see more sidewalks in and around the neighborhoods particularly around Sego Lilly and the 
areas around Big Bear Park.
I think it looks great and gets me excited for more walkability and other improvements. The sidewalks near 
Daisy and Hollyhock are not bike friendly as they don’t end or start with a ramp. I hope lighting on neighbor -
hood streets could also be addressed. It is very dark when you walk on many of the streets here on the south 
side of white city, and when it gets dark at 5:20 that means we walk in the dark a lot.
I have concerns regarding 10600, if residents wish to run a business out of their home, what about parking, 
at this time there is no way to park except in the driveway of each home, then to get back on 10600, is very 
difficult, I have witnessed many close calls as it is, it is very difficult for the current home owners to access 
10600, and adding business parking would increase the risk of accidents. How will this be addressed.
Generally good. Strongly disagree with another respondent's ask for more parking and vehicle access to Big 
Bear Park. Absolutely not! The parking lot is more than enough and is rarely full, maybe once a week for a 
couple of hours during peak season at best. And don't even get me started on vehicle access. Poppy Lane is 
already a raceway for all these people coming from outside the neighborhood, even with the speed bumps. 
Leave Big Bear as it is, things work well in the current configuration.
  - Page 189
Because of telecommuting it may be valuable to invest in high speed internet access. Sidewalks need to be 
present and sloped curbs to street need to be in place (statice ave has stepped curbs which makes it difficult 
for strollers.). Biking is difficult because of all the goat heads that are extremely common around the canal 
trail.

