DRAPER CITY


      2019 General Plan




       Photo Taken By Resident Ben White
                         TABLE OF AMENDMENTS

ADOPTION
Ordinance No. 1412, November 19, 2019


TEXT AMENDMENTS
Ordinance No. 1561, September 20, 2022
  Housing Element Amendment
Ordinance No. 1623, September 17, 2024
  Housing Element Amendment
Ordinance No. 1635, March 4, 2025
  Town Center Station Area Plan Adoption (incorporated by reference)
Ordinance No. 1670, September 2, 2025
  Draper FrontRunner, Kimballs Lane, and Crescent View Station Area Plans
  Adoption (incorporated by reference)
Ordinance No. 1692, December 2, 2025
  Draper FrontRunner, Kimballs Lane, and Crescent View Station Area Plans
  Amendment (incorporated by reference)
Ordinance No. 1694, December 2, 2025
  Water Use and Preservation Element Adoption
                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER 1
  Introduction                                     Page 3
CHAPTER 2
 Community Mission, Vision, Outreach, and Values   Page 6
CHAPTER 3
  Draper Demographics                              Page 14
CHAPTER 4
  Housing (2024)                                   Page 19
CHAPTER 5
  Transportation                                   Page 27
CHAPTER 6
  Land Use                                         Page 29
CHAPTER 7
  Water Use and Preservation (2025)                Page 33
CHAPTER 8
  City Goals And Policies                          Page 58
APPENDIX A
  Moderate Income Housing Study
APPENDIX B
  Draper Master Transportation Plan
APPENDIX C
  Land Use Categories
APPENDIX D
  Draper 2019 Survey Report
INTRODUCTION
Chapter 1
                               General Plan Purpose
    Utah Code Title 10
                               Draper City was incorporated in 1978, adopted its first
    Utah State Law (Utah       General Plan in 1981, and updated the General Plan in 2004.
    Code Title 10, Chapter     A General Plan (“the Plan”) is a city-adopted, long-range
    9a) requires that          advisory document that outlines the present conditions
    each city adopt a          within the community, identifies future community needs, and
    comprehensive, long-       plans for growth of specific areas within the community. The
    range plan to              Plan provides a uniform vision for residents and guides city
    guide the physical         budget and development decisions. The Plan can be flexible
    development of their       to accommodate unforeseen conditions and opportunities
    community. A general       but is not a regulatory document. City zoning and ordinances
    plan may include maps,     provide the regulatory framework that outlines specific
    and diagrams, that         development standards and are adopted by the City’s
    answer community           legislative body.
    conditions, principles,
    goals, objectives, and     Although not regulatory by design, the Plan is an essential
    strategies.                municipal tool. The Utah State Legislature has reaffirmed the
                               significance of General Plans by enacting laws that dictate
                               form, function, and updates for various components of the
                               Plan. Utah State law specifically requires the Plan to address 3
                               elements: (1) Land Use, (2) Transportation and Circulation and
                               (3) Moderate Income Housing.
                               The scope of this Plan is limited to addressing those three
    Legal Document             required elements, as well as the community goals and
                               implementation strategies to support them. Draper City has
    Court decisions and        adopted various other plans such as the Open Space Master
    legislation adopted by     Plan, Drinking Water System Master Plan and the Parks,
    state legislatures have    Recreation, and Trails Master Plan. The City also has other
    greatly strengthened       plans for expansion of services and facilities required for future
    the importance of          development. Those plans inform the General Plan, and are
    general plans as a legal   updated as directed by the City’s legislative body.
    document. In litigating
    development cases, the
    courts are beginning
    to increasingly rely
    on general plans as a
    basis for enforcing land
    development regulations.
    Utah State Statute
    requires every city to
    have a general plan,
    but also allows for
    flexibility in how each
    municipality ultimately
    uses the document in
    decision-making.




4
5
    COMMUNITY MISSION, VISION,
    OUTREACH, AND VALUES
    Chapter 2




6
DRAPER CITY’S MISSION STATEMENT
Draper City is a community that preserves its unique
identity and heritage, and provides protection and
services for its community.
When the Mayor and City Council make decisions, they base
these decisions on the following values:
  • Unity – Neighbors work together to build a
    strong community.
  • Respect – Citizens are open-minded, understanding,
    and sensitive to one another’s differences.
  • Quality of Life – Citizens of all ages feel safe, have
    places to gather, and enjoy traditions, events, and culture.
  • Environment – Draper is clean, pleasant, with an
    extensive trail system and thousands of acres of
    open space.
  • Pride – Citizens are proud to call Draper home and are
    involved in community well-being.

CREATING A VISION
The vision of a community relies on broad and
representative community input to establish clearly
articulated shared values. This vision, summarized as
value statements on the following pages, builds on
the established direction of the 2004 General Plan by
recognizing the changing trends in the community while
working toward preserving Draper’s unique community
character and quality of life. Our future vision has been
refined through a multi-pronged approach to engage a
broad spectrum of the Draper community outlined below.




                                                                   7
    OUTREACH: IDENTIFY AND REFINE COMMUNITY VALUES
    During the first weeks of May 2015, small group and individual interviews were held with a
    cross-section of community leaders and residents representing City departments, partners,
    community groups, and regional agencies. Discussions focused on Draper’s greatest
    challenges and opportunities, initial visioning ideas, and other thoughts about the Plan.
    Stakeholders shared their opinions about the issues that Draper City faces as it plans for
    the future.
    The first opportunities for public engagement occurred during Draper Days in 2015. The
    team held visioning exercises to identify issues and priorities, and to develop a vision for
    the community. Residents were asked to describe what they loved about Draper, as well as
    what improvements they would like to see. The team used a prize wheel that asked Draper-
    related trivia questions and rewarded winners with stickers and t-shirts. The Draper Days
    visioning activities were paired with an online questionnaire. In the weeks following the
    festival, an additional 126 visioning surveys were completed.
    In 2019, Draper City set out to ensure that the City’s Mission, Vision and Plan adequately
    reflected our citizen’s current values and input regarding the City’s future development,
    infrastructure improvements, and growth.

    ONLINE INTERACTIVE MAP
    The City engaged extensively with residents during the development of the Plan, providing
    opportunities for feedback both online and in-person during a two-month public comment
    period in July and August 2019. The City created an easy-to-use online interactive map with
    a public comment layer for residents to add their ideas regarding topics such as housing,
    parks and open space, transportation, and community services. The City received 125
    comments through the online map during the two-month public comment period.

    RESIDENT SURVEY
    The City hired a survey research
    firm, Y2 Analytics, to conduct a
    scientifically fielded survey with
    a representative, randomized
    sampling of residents. After
    the representative surveying of
    residents was conducted, the
    City made the survey available
    to all residents. A total of 1,754
    residents completed the survey.
    Residents consider the quality
    of life in Draper to be very high,
    with nine out of 10 residents
    saying they would recommend
    Draper City to friends and
    family. A plurality of residents
    indicated that planning for long-term growth needs should be the top priority for the City.
    Residents’ secondary priorities related to long-term planning, including developing and
    maintaining reliable infrastructure (transportation, water, sewer, etc.) and growing in an
    environmentally sustainable way that preserved natural amenities such as trails, parks, and
    open space. There was growing concern about traffic congestion and increasing density of
    housing developments.
8
 DRAPER CITY GENERAL PLAN PUBLIC PROCESS
                                                       Survey Available                                         Planning Commission                                 City Council Public Hearing
                                                       August 7 - August 21                                     and Public Hearing #1                               and Final Adoption

         Submit Ideas Online                                                                                                            Planning Commission
         July 1 - August 31
                                                                    Open House                                                          and Public Hearing #2
                                                                    At Galena Hills Park Pavillion




 JULY   JULY                  JULY      AUG           AUG         AUG               AUG          SEPT   OCT    OCT      OCT           OCT      NOV        NOV      NOV
 2019   01                    26       2019           07          15                31          2019    2019   10      16            24        2019       14      19

                               Draft Plan Available    Open House                                                        Open House                        Planning Commission
                                                       At Draper City Hall                                               At Draper City Hall
                                                                                                                                                           and Public Hearing #3

                                                                                      Public Comment Closed




OPEN HOUSES                                                                                                                                                              *timeline subject to change


To ensure resident feedback could be meaningfully incorporated into the Plan, the City
conducted four public open houses. An open house was held at Galena Hills Park and
three were held at City Hall. Informational mailers about the open houses were sent to
every household in the city in August and October, and advertisements ran on the front
page of the Draper Journal during those months. Collectively, approximately 200 residents
attended the open houses and 35 submitted hand-written comments.
As an integral component of the General Plan, the Transportation Master Plan was also
developed with robust public outreach. Staff conducted a public open house and fielded
dozens of comments from residents concerned about growth and traffic congestion. Many
wanted to accelerate planned transportation projects.

                                                                       CITY COMMUNICATIONS PLATFORMS
RESIDENT LETTER                                                        Regular social media posts on the City’s Twitter, Facebook,
Staff fielded dozens of                                                and Instagram accounts provided residents with
phone calls and email                                                  information regarding public comment opportunities, open
inquiries regarding                                                    houses, public hearings, and online engagement options.
proposed updates to the                                                Information related to the General Plan was included in the
General Plan, with over                                                City’s bi-monthly Draper Journal and in the City’s monthly
three dozen residents                                                  eNewsletter. Up-to-date information was also posted
emailing questions or                                                  regularly on the City website.
comments. In addition,
staff mailed two letters
to over 6,000 residents
whose properties were
potentially affected by
proposed changes to land
use designations on the
Land Use Map.




                                                                                                                                                                                                       9
     Values
     Draper is an attractive residential community, employment center, and recreational
     destination designed to enhance quality of life and ensure long-term prosperity, economic
     competitiveness, and a healthy, safe, and sustainable environment for all citizens. The range
     of housing and distinct neighborhoods defines its character and sense of place. A greenbelt
     of high-quality parks, recreation, and open space opportunities reinforces Draper’s active
     community identity and promotes environmental protection and open space conservation.
     A well-balanced and connected multi-modal transportation system reflects its diverse
     needs for mobility and lifestyle choices. Draper is a city that recognizes the importance of
     meeting today’s needs without compromising resources for future generations.

                                                    Economic Vitality
                                                      • Support a dynamic, diversified, resilient,
                                                         and regionally competitive economic
                                                         tax base.
                                                      • Provide high-paying employment
                                                         opportunities to our residents.
                                                      • Sustain a robust, unique, and local
                                                         business environment.




                                                    Housing & Neighborhoods
                                                      • Include a wide range of opportunities
                                                         for people at different life stages,
                                                         various income levels, and social and
                                                         physical needs.
                                                      • Promote high quality housing
                                                         developments with safe and desirable
                                                         neighborhoods.
                                                      • Support increased housing density in
                                                        strategic locations.
                                                      • Develop smart growth infill policies.
                                                      • Provide housing opportunities along
                                                        major transit investment corridors.




10
Community Mobility
 • Provide a safe and efficient
   transportation network.
 • Increase pedestrian and bicycle
    connectivity, accessibility, safety,
    and comfort.
 • Balance regional, city-wide, and
   neighborhood transportation needs.
 • Reinforce the relationships in land use
    patterns that reduce the number and
    distance of auto-dependent trips.
 • Create a world-class network of urban
   and regional trails.
 • Encourage transit-oriented
    development along major transit
    investment corridors.


Open Space & Recreation
 • Maintain and enhance open space,
   recreational facilities, trails, and parks.
 • Encourage social interaction and high
   quality recreational opportunities.
 • Connect neighborhoods, parks,
    developing areas, and nature preserve
    areas with a network of multi-use trails.
 • Coordinate investments with Salt Lake
    County, Utah County, and neighboring
    communities.
 • Support goals outlined in the functional
    plans adopted by the legislative body.




                                                 11
     Environmental Planning &
     Growth Management
      • Protect ecosystems, biodiversity,
         archaeological and historical resources,
         and water and air quality from
         degradation and decline.
      • Foster energy, land, and water
         conservation; reduce solid waste
         generation; and the use of alternative
         and renewable energy sources.
      • Support sustainable and healthy
         building practices, energy efficient
         construction techniques, and the use of
         renewable energy resources.
      • Minimize exposure of the public to
        safety hazards like flooding, fire,
        and crime.


     Public & Cultural Resources
      • Deliver highest quality public services
         to residents, businesses, and visitors in
         an efficient and cost-effective manner.
      • Support and expand the community
        and cultural events offered year-round.
      • Support libraries, schools, and cultural/
         civic centers that provide a sense of
         pride in the community.
      • Develop strong partnerships with
         other jurisdictions and school districts
         through joint use of facilities.
      • Strategically preserve, reinforce, and
         revitalize the community’s local, historic,
         and cultural heritage.




12
Land Use & Character
 • Ensure a rich variety of living, working,
    and leisure environments that visually,
    aesthetically and economically
    complement one another.
 • Reinforce a sense of place by creating
    unique, walkable spaces for the
    community to socialize and recreate.
 • Encourage the integration of uses
    including residential, retail, office, and
    light industrial along major transit
    investment corridors.
 • Protect large, unspoiled portions of our
    mountain areas and important urban
    open areas.
 • Create an unsurpassed quality of life.




                                                 13
DRAPER DEMOGRAPHICS
Chapter 3
Snapshot
As Draper grows and adds residents, the community needs to decide how it can capitalize
on growth. In general, land uses and community design should be efficient and sustainable;
support a multi-modal transportation network; provide housing choices conveniently
located near jobs, schools, shops, and parks; minimize conflicts between incompatible uses;
and integrate development with existing and planned infrastructure.
A community land use plan that is programmed in a deliberate manner, with an
understanding of market, financial, and physical realities, can help foster a healthy
balance of land uses and minimize uncertainty for its officials, staff, residents, and
other stakeholders. The existing conditions snapshots on the following pages provide
background and historic trends, highlight issues and opportunities, and illustrate data
trends and patterns.




                                                                                              15
     Residential Placement
     The population map illustrates the residential density within the City in 2010. More residents
     per acre live in the northern neighborhoods of the City, bordering Sandy and the TRAX line.




16
Establishing the proper canvas for economic growth and development is a key function
of the City, and translates into opportunities to make Draper more vibrant and business
friendly with each succeeding generation. This Plan can encourage economic growth
using land use polices to retain and expand existing business in locations that provide
optimal benefits to the community. It lays the blueprint for directing new growth and
redevelopment into key areas where job centers and retail development will be most
successful, and where the community can realize its full potential.

JOBS
The majority of Draper’s jobs are office/professional, with some retail and industrial. As of
2018, the largest employers in the area were eBay, Utah State Prison, Edwards Lifesciences
LLC, Healthequity, Inc., Prog Finance, LLC, Academy Mortgage Corporation, and Swire
Pacific Holdings Inc..
As projected population increases occur, Draper’s strategic transit access, lifestyle
amenities, quality neighborhoods, and other features make it a premium attraction to
employers and employees.
The employment map illustrates areas identified as employment uses, especially
commercial, office, retail, industrial, and manufacturing. The majority of employers are
clustered around Interstate 15 and 12300 South.




                                                                                                17
     JOBS-HOUSING BALANCE
     Comparing employment numbers with household data indicates whether a community is
     a net importer or exporter of employment. A ratio above 1.0 suggests that a community is
     a net importer while a ratio below 1.0 indicates residents tend to work outside of the area.
     Draper has by far the highest jobs-to-households ratio among its adjoining neighbors,
     with 2.58 jobs per household. Lehi, the closest competitor, has a 1.93 ratio and Sandy City
     provides 1.67 jobs per household.
     Draper’s strong jobs-to-housing ratio underscores the City’s growing success as an
     employment center. While this trend indicates excellent local employment opportunities for
     its citizens, 88% of residents commute outside of Draper for work.

     JOBS TO HOUSING RATIO
      3
              2.58

     2.5

                                                      1.93
      2
                           1.67
                                        1.33                         1.51
     1.5

      1

     0.5

      0
            Draper        Sandy        Bluﬀdale     Lehi            South Jordan

     Source: Envision Utah’s Market Driven Growth Analysis (2014)



     HOUSEHOLD INCOME
     A significant number of high-income households has moved to Draper in the last decade.
     This follows the City’s late transition from rural agricultural to suburban residential.
     Currently, Draper is among the highest income cities in the state, with a median household
     income of $110,270 in 2017. Comparatively Salt Lake County’s median household income is
     $67,920 and the state of Utah as a whole is $65,325.

     RETAIL SALES AND SALES TAX REVENUE
     Sales tax accounts for 27% of the general fund, with property tax at 13%, and franchise tax
     at 18%. The other third is a mix of fines, permit and license fees, and charges for services. In
     contrast, the greatest expenses for Draper are police and fire at 33%, debt service at 18%,
     and public works at 14%. Draper City has not had a property tax increase in over ten years,
     largely because new commercial development in the City has helped supplement property
     tax revenues. Commercial property is taxed at 100% of its value, while primary
     residential is taxed at 55% of its value. Importantly, retail establishments like IKEA provide
     approximately 1/3 of the City’s revenue, much of which is paid by non-residents. This
     particular tax base works like a subsidy to Draper, paid by other county residents.




18
HOUSING
Chapter 4




            19
     In 2019 the Utah State Legislature first passed legislation requiring cities to adopt a Moderate Income
     Housing Plan (MIHP) as part of their General Plan and select specific strategies and targets listed within the
     legislation to increase the number of moderate income housing units available for residents and employees
     within the municipalities’ boundaries. In 2022 the Utah State Legislature made changes to the list of specific
     strategies and required all cities to amend their General Plans by October 1, 2022 to align with the updated
     strategies from the new list provided within the State Code. The State also required that the MIHP include five
     (5) year implementation plans for each selected strategy within the plan, and to provide an annual progress
     report to the Utah Division of Workforce Services each year. The enacted legislation prescribed a set number
     of strategies that each city must implement in order to be eligible for certain transportation funding, and an
     additional count that a city could choose to implement in exchange for receiving priority status for such
     funding.

     Potential Strategies List from Utah State Code Section 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii):
     (A) Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the         notwithstanding [Utah State Code] Section 10-9a-
         production of moderate income housing;                   535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund;
     (B) Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or      (L) Reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to
         expansion of infrastructure that facilitates the         moderate income housing;
         construction of moderate income housing;             (M) Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a
     (C) Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of          community land trust program for moderate
         existing uninhabitable housing stock into                income housing;
         moderate income housing;                             (N) Implement a mortgage assistance program for
     (D) Identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other     employees of the municipality, an employer that
         sources of revenue to waive construction related         provides contracted services to the municipality,
         fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the         or any other public employer that operates within
         municipality for the construction or rehabilitation      the municipality;
         of moderate income housing;                          (O) Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for
     (E) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related      state or federal funds or tax incentives to promote
         to, internal or detached accessory dwelling units        the construction of moderate income housing, an
         in residential zones;                                    entity that applies for programs offered by the
     (F) Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate            Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's
         income residential development in commercial or          funding capacity, an entity that applies for
         mixed-use zones near major transit investment            affordable housing programs administered by the
         corridors, commercial centers, or employment             Department of Workforce Services, an entity that
         centers;                                                 applies for affordable housing programs
                                                                  administered by an association of governments
     (G) Amend land use regulations to allow for higher           established by an interlocal agreement under
         density or new moderate income residential               [Utah State Code] Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
         development in commercial or mixed-use zones             Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services
         near major transit investment corridors;                 provided by a public housing authority to preserve
     (H) Amend land use regulations to eliminate or               and create moderate income housing, or any
         reduce parking requirements for residential              other entity that applies for programs or services
         development where a resident is less likely to rely      that promote the construction or preservation of
         on the resident's own vehicle, such as residential       moderate income housing;
         development near major transit investment            (P) Demonstrate utilization of a moderate income
         corridors or senior living facilities;                   housing set aside from a community reinvestment
     (I) Amend land use regulations to allow for single           agency, redevelopment agency, or community
         room occupancy developments;                             development and renewal agency to create or
     (J) Implement zoning incentives for moderate income          subsidize moderate income housing;
         units in new developments;                      (Q) Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone
     (K) Preserve existing and new moderate income           pursuant to [Utah State Code] Title 63N, Chapter
         housing and subsidized units by utilizing a         3, Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone
         landlord incentive program, providing for deed      Act;
         restricted units through a grant program, or,


20
(R) Create a home ownership promotion zone               (X) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related
    pursuant to [Utah State Code] Part 10, Home              to, multifamily residential dwellings compatible in
    Ownership Promotion Zone for Municipalities;             scale and form with detached single-family
(S) Eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling         residential dwellings and located in walkable
    unit that is not an internal accessory dwelling unit     communities within residential or mixed-use
    as defined in [Utah State Code] Section 10-9a-530;       zones;
(T) Create a program to transfer development rights (Y) Create a first home investment zone in
    for moderate income housing;                             accordance with [Utah State Code] Title 63N,
                                                             Chapter 3, Part 13, First Home Investment Zone
(U) Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another        Act and
    local political subdivision for the purpose of
    combining resources to acquire property for          (Z) Demonstrate implementation of any other
    moderate income housing;                                 program or strategy to address the housing needs
                                                             of residents of the municipality who earn less than
(V) Develop a moderate income housing project for            80% of the area median income, including the
    residents who are disabled or 55 years old or            dedication of a local funding source to moderate
    older;                                                   income housing or the adoption of a land use
(W) Develop and adopt a station area plan in                 ordinance that requires 10% or more of new
    accordance with [Utah State Code] Section 10-9a-         residential development in a residential zone be
    403.1;                                                   dedicated to moderate income housing.

As a municipality with a fixed guide-way public transit station, Draper City is required to implement strategy W
from the list above; at least one (1) of the strategies G, H, or Q; and three (3) additional strategies for a total of
five (5). The City can also choose to implement an additional one (1) strategy for a total of six (6) to receive
priority consideration for certain transportation funding. With many strategies to select from, it is important
to select strategies that balance the needs of the existing community with those of future residents and
employees, particularly those with moderate incomes.

In an effort to assist the City in identifying defined targets that were measurable and reasonably achievable,
Draper City engaged Zions Bank to conduct a housing assessment to help inform the Moderate Income
Housing Plan elements of the 2019 General Plan. In 2022 Draper City again engaged Zions Bank to provide
an update to the 2019 housing assessment to reflect the five (5) year implementation timeline (through the
year 2027) as required by the new State legislation. A copy of the study is included as Appendix A and the
data and general assessments are also considered as part of the overall Housing Plan.

The population of Draper City has grown by approximately 22.6% over the past decade, and 10% in the past
five (5) years. The annual population growth trend is slowing, but continues to remain close to a rate of two-
percent (2%) per year. Using uniform and reliable data in decision making and tracking the effectiveness of,
and progress made, through programs and policies is vital. The following data and statistics are provided here
as important benchmarks and considerations for use in evaluating and implementing plans related to the
creation and retention of Moderate Income Housing.

Current Population:
  Draper, UT                                       Amount                        Notes:
  Total Population 2021                            51,749                        US Census Quick facts 2021
  Total Population 2017 / % increase from 2017-    47,043 /10%                   US Census Bureau
  2021
  Total Population 2012 / % increase from 2012-    42,212 / 22.6%                US Census Bureau
  2021
  Total Households                                 14,390                        2020 American Community Survey
                                                                                 5-Year Estimates
  Average Persons per Household                    3.21                          US Census Bureau
  Estimated Households between 50% to 80%          1,887                         2019 Zion’s Bank housing plan
  AMI                                                                            projection for 2023
  Estimated Households between 30% to 50%          648                           2019 Zion’s Bank housing plan
  AMI                                                                            projection for 2023
  Estimated Households <30% AMI                    961                           2019 Zion’s Bank housing plan
                                                                                 projection for 2023
                                                                                                                         21
     Projected Population:
      Linear                      2023                2024                  2025                2026             2027
      (1%) Low:                   52,789              53,317                53,850              54,389           54,933
      (2%) Medium:                53,840              54,916                56,015              57,135           58,278
      (3%) High:                  54,901              56,548                58,244              59,991           61,791


      Linear                      2028                2029                  2030                2031             2032
      (1%) Low:                   55,482              56,037                56,597              57,163           57,735
      (2%) Medium:                59,443              60,632                61,845              63,082           64,343
      (3%) High:                  63,645              65,554                67,521              69,546           71,633


     Current Housing Stock:
      Total Number of             15,590                                                    (H1) 2020 Decennial Census
      Housing Units
      Owner Occupied              12,129                         77.8%                      S1101 2020:ACS 5 Year Estimates
                                                                                            Subject Tables
      Rental                      3,461                          22.2%                      S1101 2020:ACS 5 Year Estimates
                                                                                            Subject Tables
      Number of Total ADU’s       13                                                        City Data
      I-ADU’s                     5                                                         City Data
      D-ADU’s                     8                                                         City Data
      ADU’S in review             27                                                        City Data


     Fair Market Rent for Salt Lake City, UT HUD Metro FMR Area (Set by HUD):
                          Efficiency/             One-Bedroom            Two-Bedroom         Three-Bedroom      Four-Bedroom
                          Studio

      2021                $829                    $1,001                 $1,204              $1,690             $1,892
      2022                $924                    $1,112                 $1,327              $1,843             $2,066


     Current Moderate Income Housing Availability and Need:
      (2022 AMI for a family of        <80% AMI            <50% AMI               <30% AM
      4)
      Gross Income (upper              $81,900             $51,200                $30,700          2022 HUD Income Limits
      limit)                                                                                       Documentation System

      Gross Affordable Rent            $1,748              $980                   $468             Calculated
      [30% percentage of Gross
      Income minus $300 for
      utilities]
      Estimated number of              2,059               217                    0                DP04      Selected    Housing
      Housing units affordable                                                                     Characteristics 2020: ACS 5
      to target Households                                                                         year estimates data profiles




22
Current Moderate Income Housing Availability and Need (Continued):
 (2022 AMI for a family of <80% AMI       <50% AMI        <30% AM
 4)
 Approximate % of            13.2%            1.4%               0%                 Calculated
 Housing units affordable
 to target Households
 Approximate Additional      (213)            417                940                Calculated
 units needed 2022
 Approximate Additional      (6)              488                1046               Calculated
 units needed 2027
 Approximate Additional      201              559                1152               Calculated
 units needed 2032


Projected Number of Target Households:
                   2023               2024               2025               2026                 2027
 <80% AMI          1,887              1,928              1,970              2,011                2,053
 <50% AMI          648                662                676                691                  705
 <30% AMI          961                982                1,003              1,025                1,046

                   2028               2029               2030               2031                 2032
 <80% AMI          2,094              2,135              2,177              2,218                2,260
 <50% AMI          719                733                747                762                  776
 <30% AMI          1,067              1,088              1,109              1,131                1,152


Regulatory Environment:

The character of Draper City has historically been rural in
nature consisting of large residential lots and integrated
agrarian uses, many of which still remain. Current residents
place significant public interest in maintaining the core
character of the City as it contributes to protection of the high
quality of life they enjoy. Recent changes to zoning
regulations to allow for higher residential density, including
specific adjustments to zoning near fixed transit stations that
have allowed for increased residential development have
made some progress in addressing Moderate Income
Housing Needs. These have increased the total number of
apartment units in the City significantly.
                                                Public sentiment expressed during the creation of the 2022
                                                update to the Moderate Income Housing Plan highlighted that
                                                a better balance between housing types used to providing
                                                Moderate Income Housing needs to be achieved. Changes to
                                                ordinances regarding the Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU’s) in
                                                2021 effectively ended the City’s prior policy of not monitoring
                                                ADU’s, and has done very little to increase the overall supply
                                                of Moderate income Housing Units. A change in the definition
                                                of a family in 2021 did lower barriers so that some less
                                                common household types could reside together without the
                                                risk of enforcement. Skyrocketing regional housing prices and
                                                rents, combined with slower wage growth, and historic
                                                inflation have exacerbated the demand for Moderate Income
                                                Housing and will likely exert additional pressure to increase
                                                the amount of available housing of all types within the City
                                                over the coming years.
                                                                                                                   23
     Plans to meet Moderate Income Housing Need:

     Draper City has selected to implement the following strategies that the legislature has determined will
     encourage the creation of moderate income housing for residents and employees residing and/or working
     within the city.
     (E) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related (O) Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for
          to, internal or detached accessory dwelling units in   state or federal funds or tax incentives to promote
          residential zones;                                     the construction of moderate income housing, an
                                                                 entity that applies for programs offered by the
     (F) Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate
                                                                 Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's
          income residential development in commercial or
                                                                 funding capacity, an entity that applies for
          mixed-use zones near major transit investment
                                                                 affordable housing programs administered by the
          corridors, commercial centers, or employment
                                                                 Department of Workforce Services, an entity that
          centers;
                                                                 applies for affordable housing programs
        *
     (G) Amend land use regulations to allow for higher          administered by an association of governments
          density or new moderate income residential             established by an interlocal agreement under
          development in commercial or mixed-use zones           [Utah State Code] Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
          near major transit investment corridors;               Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services
                                                                 provided by a public housing authority to preserve
     (J) Implement zoning incentives for moderate income
                                                                 and create moderate income housing, or any
          units in new developments;
        *
                                                                 other entity that applies for programs or services
     (W) Develop and adopt a station area plan in                that promote the construction or preservation of
          accordance with [Utah State Code] Section 10-9a-       moderate income housing;
          403.1;
      * Denotes required selections


     Implementation Plans:

     Draper City has identified the following implementation measures for the selected Moderate Income Hous-
     ing Strategies. These are based on current conditions and reasonably reliable data projections. The included
     timelines are for reference as a general guide only and are not able to account for all situations or barriers
     to implementation. They are intended to meet the intent of the Utah State legislature in that they represent,
     “a reasonable opportunity for a variety of housing including moderate income housing, to meet the needs of
     people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to live or work in the community; and to allow
     people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of neighborhood and com-
     munity life” and to, “provide flexibility for the municipality to make adjustments as needed”. The City may
     choose work on implementation in a different order than listed or may modify the timeframe for completion
     depending on funding and feasibility.




24
Selected Strategies:
  Year       Selection     Proposed 5 year Implementation Plans
             (E) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory
             dwelling units in residential zones.
  2024                     Evaluate current ADU ordinance with respects to reducing the minimum
                           requirements for D-ADUs and I-ADUs in specific circumstances and propose
                           ordinance changes for adoption by the City Council. Specific examples may
                           include changes to the deviation criteria to allow for more I-ADUs in prohibited
                           areas and an allowance for additional flexibility regarding owner occupation of
                           either unit.
  2025                     Create an ADU brochure to provide the public with easily accessible
                           information on the requirements and process for permitting an ADU on their
                           property as a part of efforts to educate and encourage residents to create
                           more ADUs within the city.
  2026                     Continue to monitor and track application data regarding the creation of ADUs
                           within the city. Adjust policies and procedures for processing applications as
                           needed.
  2027                     Re-evaluate ADU ordinance to determine if additional modifications are
                           warranted.

  Year       Selection     Proposed 5 year Implementation Plans
             (F) Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in
             commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers,
             or employment centers.
  2024                     Begin implementation of the Town Center Station Area Plan by amending the
                           zoning map as applicable.
  2025                     Continue the implementation of the Town Center Station Area Plan by
                           amending the zoning map as applicable
                           Implement the updated Vista Station Area Plan. Amend zoning Map as
                           applicable.

  Year       Selection     Proposed 5 year Implementation Plans
             (G) Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income
             residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment
             corridors.
  2023                     Evaluate current mixed-use zones for potential to include increased density
                           when located near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or
                           employment centers where units will meet targeted affordability thresholds.
                           Evaluate the feasibility of creating a mixed use zone for targeted
                           implementation near major transit investment corridors.
  2024                     Amend text of current mixed-use zones based on prior evaluation of
                           opportunities.
                           Begin implementation of the Town Center Station Area Plan by amending the
                           text of the zoning ordinance to increase residential densities as applicable.
  2025                     Continue implementation of the Town Center Station Area Plan by amending
                           the text of the zoning ordinance as applicable.
                           Implement the updated Vista Station Area Plan. Amend text of the zoning
                           ordinance to increase residential densities as applicable.
                                                                                                              25
     Selected Strategies (Continued):
       Year       Selection      Proposed 5 year Implementation Plans
                  (J) Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments.
       2026                      Initiate a study regarding potential zoning incentives that could be granted that
                                 would have the effect of increasing the number of Moderate Income Housing
                                 units.
       2027                      Implement zoning incentives for developments that provide deed restricted
                                 Moderate Income Housing.
       Year       Selection      Proposed 5 year Implementation Plans
                  (W) Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1.

       2023                      Complete and adopt the Town Center Station Area Plan. Plan creation process
                                 begun in 2022.
       2024                      Update existing Vista Station Area Plan and adopt changes as necessary for
                                 compliance with minimum requirements of Utah Code.

       2025                      Evaluate Kimballs Lane Station Area for potential Station Area Plan and/or
                                 waiver based on existing characteristics.

                                 Evaluate 11400 S. Station area zoning and potential for a waiver based on
                                 existing characteristics.

                                 Create and adopt additional Station Area Plans as applicable before December
                                 31, 2025.

       Year       Selection      Proposed 5 year Implementation Plans
                  (O) Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives
                  to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for programs
                  offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an entity that
                  applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of Workforce
                  Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by an
                  association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter
                  13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing
                  authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other entity that applies
                  for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate income
                  housing.

       2023                      Draper City will continue to partner with other Cities and Salt Lake County in
       Through                   pooling CDBG funds for use regionally inclusive of funds utilized for affordable
       2027                      housing projects.




26
     TRANSPORTATION
     Chapter 5




22
     In 2018 Draper City commissioned the creation of a new Master Transportation
     Plan by industry leaders Parametrix. This plan meets the historic legislative
     mandates for the City as well as more recent requirements as passed by the
     State of Utah Legislature in 2019. Specifically the Master Transportation Plan
     must consider the regional transportation plan developed by its region’s
     metropolitan planning organization. Appendix B is copy of the Master
     Transportation Plan which meets the required legislative mandates and is
     adopted as part of the General Plan.




28
     LAND USE
     Chapter 6




24
     Since the 2004 Plan, the City has changed in important ways, not the least of which are
     significant population growth, open space acquisition and redevelopment opportunities.
     Draper City has transformed from a rural agricultural community to a suburban city.
     The character of our community is complex and diverse. Urban, suburban, rural, and natural
     characteristics provide a broad variety of experiences and expressions, each offering a
     unique opportunity.
     The character of Draper should be considered in light of the demands placed on it by an
     ever-growing population, the amount of services required to accommodate growth, and
     the cost of providing goods and services.
     Thus the importance of revisiting and updating the land use map. Land use designates the
     long-term goals and the proposed extent, general distribution, and location of
     land for:
       • Housing for residents of various income levels
       • Business
       • Industry
       • Agriculture
       • Recreation
       • Education
       • Public buildings and grounds
       • Open space
       • Other categories of public and private uses of land as appropriate




30
        Currently Adopted Land Use Map                                                                                            As depicted in the existing
                                                                                                                                  land use map there are
                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                  various areas where the
                                                                                                           W                  E
                                                                                                                                  land use designation has
                                                                                                                                  been changed allowing for
                                                                                                                    S             contrasting development
                                                                                                                                  within the community. The
                                                                                                                                  city’s legislative body is
                                                                                                                                  charged with reviewing
                                                                                                                                  the whole of the municipal
                                                                                                                                  land use and basing future
                                                                                                                                  decisions on a vision of
                                                                                                                                  complementary uses rather
                                 §
                                 ¦
                                 ¨
                                 15                                                                                               than single development
                                                                                                                                  applications by disparate
                                                                                                                                  property owners with
                                                                                                                                  conflicting visions.
                                                                                                                                  Draper is a city of
                                                                                                                                  diminishing vacant and
                                                                                                                                  agricultural land with little
                                                                                                                                  redevelopment possibility
                                                                                                                                  on the horizon it is with
                                                                                                                                  this land use plan adoption
                                                                                                                                  that the legislative body will
                                                                                       0       ½     1                  2
                                                                                                                                  determine the development
                                                                                                                         Miles
                                                                                                                                  that will be woven into our
    Legend                                                                                                                        community as these
        Draper City Limits                      Industrial / Manufacturing                         Special Use Areas
                                                                                                                                  parcels develop.
        State Prison Property                   Industrial/Manufacturing                           Commercial Special District
        Commercial                              Business/Light Manufacturing                       Cultural/Institutional
        Community Commercial                    Residential                                        Utilities
        Community/Neighborhood Commercial       Hillside Low Density (1 du/2 ac- 1 du/5 ac )       Town Center
        Neighborhood Commercial                 Low- Medium Density (Up to 2 du/ac)                Transit Station District
        Regional Commercial                     Medium Density (2-4 du/ac)                         Open Space/Parks
        Office/Service                          Medium-High Density (4-8 du/ac)                    Growth Area
        Destination Commercial                  High Density (8-12 du/ac)                          Sensitive River Overlay




            Summary Report of Draper City Land Use
         Land Use Category                   Residential Density                      Acres                % of city area
Business & Light Manufacturing                                                         163.97                        0.87%
Commercial Special District                                                            631.36                        3.33%
Community Commercial                                                                  1087.24                        5.74%
Community/Neighborhood
                                                                                           80.00                        0.42%
Commercial
Cultural/Institutional                                                                 1210.46                        6.39%
Destination Commercial                                                                   88.39                        0.47%
Growth Area                                                                              32.09                        0.17%
Industrial/Manufacturing                                                                138.43                        0.73%
Neighborhood Commercial                                                                 309.13                        1.63%
Office/Service                                                                            7.04                        0.04%
Open Space/Parks                                                                       6278.22                       33.15%
Regional Commercial                                                                      97.19                        0.51%
Residential High Density                               8-12 du/ac                       301.97                        1.59%
Residential Hillside Low Density            1 du/2 ac - 1 du/5 ac                      2280.76                       12.04%
Residential Low-Medium Density                      up to 2 du/ac                      3052.95                       16.12%
Residential Medium-High Density                         4-8 du/ac                       318.65                        1.68%
Residential Medium Density                              2-4 du/ac                      2508.16                       13.24%
Sensitive River Overlay                                                                 656.72                        3.47%
Town Center                                            6-25 du/ac                        99.13                        0.52%
Transit Station District                                                                254.67                        1.34%


                                                                                                                                                                   31
     Of special note is the area of land designated as the ‘State Prison Property’. Draper City
     municipal government does not direct nor oversee the land use designation nor any other
     traditionally municipal government services for this property. In the 2018 legislative session
     the Point of the Mountain State Land Authority (the “Authority”) was created to oversee all
     aspects of the state owned land. While Draper City’s input has been, and will continue to
     be, essential to the Authority’s planning and development execution processes there are a
     total of 11 members on the Authority’s Board, the whole of which will ultimately direct the
     resulting development and services.


                                                                                                                    N



                                                                                                           W                  E



                                                                                                                    S




                                     §
                                     ¦
                                     ¨
                                     15




                                                                                       0       ½     1                  2
                                                                                                                         Miles


         Legend
            Draper City Limits                  Industrial / Manufacturing                         Special Use Areas
            State Prison Property               Industrial/Manufacturing                           Commercial Special District
            Commercial                          Business/Light Manufacturing                       Cultural/Institutional
            Community Commercial                Residential                                        Utilities
            Community/Neighborhood Commercial   Hillside Low Density (1 du/2 ac- 1 du/5 ac )       Town Center
            Neighborhood Commercial             Low- Medium Density (Up to 2 du/ac)                Transit Station District
            Regional Commercial                 Medium Density (2-4 du/ac)                         Open Space/Parks
            Office/Service                      Medium-High Density (4-8 du/ac)                    Growth Area
            Destination Commercial              High Density (8-12 du/ac)                          Sensitive River Overlay



32
WATER USE &
PRESERVATION
Chapter 7
Introduction
Utah’s signiﬁcant population growth, coupled with persistent drought conditions and a historic lack of
coordination between land use development and water supply planning has intensiﬁed concern regarding
water resources. In direct response to these challenges, the State of Utah adopted S.B. 110, “Water as Part
of the General Plan,” in 2022. This new legislation requires most municipalities to amend their General Plans
to address the impact of land-use planning on water use.
This Element directly addresses this requirement by outlining strategies to ensure responsible water
stewardship in conjunction with land use planning. By exploring the alignment of land use decisions with
water resource realities, this element seeks to build a resilient and sustainable water future for Draper City.

DRAPER WATER SYSTEM SNAPSHOT
Water in Draper City is supplied by two providers (see Map 1 for service area boundaries of each provider)
operating three systems. Each are brieﬂy described below:
·   Draper City System: Draper City operates a drinking water system that supplies areas generally west of I
    -15 and south of 14600 S. The drinking water system supplies water for both indoor and irrigation
    purposes. The Point development, a redevelopment eﬀort led by the Point of the Mountain State Land
    Authority, is within the Draper City system.
·   WaterPro Culinary Water System: WaterPro operates a drinking water system that supplies areas
    generally east of I-15 and north of 14600 S. The drinking water system provides indoor water to all
    customers served by WaterPro. It also provides irrigation water for some customers.
·   WaterPro Irrigation System: WaterPro operates a pressurized irrigation system that supplies areas
    generally east of I-15 and north of 14600 S.
While Draper City only has control over their service area, a review of historical water usage was conducted
for both providers to understand how demand has changed over time and assess the relationship
between development patterns and water demand. Historical water usage data was sourced from the
Utah Division of Water Rights (DWRi), Draper City, and WaterPro. The analysis focused on per capita usage
trends and usage by connection type to identify patterns and potential opportunities for conservation.



    KEY TERMS
    Water Connection                  ERC                                 Water Redundancy
    A link between the public         Equivalent residential              Backup or alternate
    water supply network              connection – A                      systems, sources, or
    (water mains) and a private       standardized unit of                infrastructure to ensure a
    property, such as a home          measurement used by                 reliable supply of water,
    or building.                      utilities to represent the          even when a primary
                                      average ﬂow or demand of            component fails, is
                                      a single-family residential         overloaded, or is
    GPCD                              unit, which is then used to         unavailable due to
                                      calculate charges or assess         emergencies or natural
    Gallons per capita per day
                                      fees for other types of             disasters.
    A standard unit for
                                      connections, such as
    measuring how much water
                                      commercial, industrial, or
    the average person uses in
                                      multi-family units.
    a single day.



                                                                                                             34
3
Water Use
Per capita water used in the Draper City system has shown a downward trend (see Figure 1), consistent with
state and regional goals for water conservation. This trend is likely due to both higher density development
and increased conservation measures implemented by the City. Notable conservation measures include the
adoption of Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD) Outdoor Landscaping Standards and Water
Eﬃciency Standards in 2023 and the implementation of tiered rates. See Table 9 for a detailed inventory of
existing conservation eﬀorts as well as measures from the 2025 Water Conservation Plan.
Per capita water use within the WaterPro service area also displays a decreasing trend (see Figure 2). Inﬁll
development and water conservation measures are likely impacting this decrease. While not outlined in this
element, WaterPro’s key conservation measures include tiered rates for both culinary and PI systems and
universal metering expansion.
 Figure 1—Draper City Water System in Gallons             Figure 2—WaterPro System in Gallons per Capita




                                                                                                           36
Draper City’s water demand is driven by residential, institutional, and commercial users, the latter of which
includes industrial users. As shown in Figures 3–5, residential use consistently accounts for the highest
demand, underscoring the importance of conservation strategies in this area. Commercial demand ranks
second in both Draper City’s service area (Figure 3) and WaterPro’s culinary system (Figure 4), while
institutional uses rank second highest in WaterPro’s secondary system (Figure 5). When combined with the
distribution of connections across these user types, the data highlights clear opportunities for conservation
not only among residential users but also institutional and commercial users.

Figure 3- Draper Water System Total Water Use              Figure 4– WaterPro Culinary Water Use
(ACFT, 2024)                                               (ACFT,2024)




Data sourced from Utah Division of Water Rights (DWRi)    Data sourced from Utah Division of Water Rights (DWRi)


Figure 5—WaterPro Secondary Water Use
(ACFT,2024)




Data sourced from Utah Division of Water Rights (DWRi)




                                                                                                                   37
   The number of connections and water use per connection type together reveal the impact of individual
   properties both individually and collectively. As seen in Figure 6, WaterPro supplies the majority of total
   connections, with residential connections comprising the largest share of both systems.
   Figure 6 - Total Connection Types in Draper City
                        18,000



                        16,000



                        14,000



                        12,000
Number of connections




                        10,000



                         8,000



                         6,000



                         4,000



                         2,000




                                 Draper City - Residential          WaterPro Culinary - Residential    Draper City - Commercial

                                 WaterPro Culinary - Commercial     Draper City - Institutional        WaterPro Culinary - Institutional

                                 WaterPro Irrigation - Commercial   WaterPro Irrigation - Residental   WaterPro Irrigation - Institutional




                                                                                                                                             38
While residential properties make up most of Draper City’s total connections, Figures 7-9 demonstrate that
residential properties exhibit the lowest and most consistent water use per connection compared to
commercial and institutional connections in both the WaterPro and Draper City service areas. This marked
diﬀerence in water use per connection suggests a potential high impact opportunity for implementing water
conservation measures for non-residential developments. While the water conservation of one residential
property remains important in scale, the comparative reduction in demand of a conserving commercial or
institutional property will likely be measurably higher, highlighting the beneﬁt of targeting this area.


Figure 7 – Annual Water Use (Culinary and                Figure 8 - Annual Culinary Water Use for
Irrigation) Per Connection for Draper City Water         WaterPro
System




Figure 9 - Annual Secondary Water Use for
WaterPro




                                                                                                        39
Figures 10-12 present recent data on total             Figure 10 - Draper Water System Source, Use, &
source, retail use, and estimated water loss for       Estimated Water Loss
the Draper and WaterPro water systems. The
ﬁgures show a general downward trend in
estimated water loss in recent years for both
systems, with values appearing to approach a
more stable, predictable range. This trend is likely
attributable to improvements in metering
accuracy and leak detection.




Figure 11- WaterPro Culinary Source, Use, &            Figure 12- WaterPro Secondary Source, Use, &
Estimated Water Loss                                   Estimated Water Loss




                                                                                                        40
Historical & Future Water Demands
A water budget assesses the impact of existing and planned development on water demand and
infrastructure needs. This budget compares current and projected demands with available supply. The
water budget for each system is summarized in Tables 1 and 2. Existing equivalent residential connections
(ERCs) were determined with historical water billing and water production data, which includes both indoor
and outdoor uses (i.e., Draper does not have a separate pressurized irrigation system). Expected future
water use was forecasted in terms of ERCs per acre for each of the City’s planned land use categories.
Density of ERCs was forecasted based on water use in existing, representative parcels and development
requirements as contained in Draper City zoning code.
                                                                             Table 1 summarizes the water
                                                                             budget for the Draper City
                                                                             system. Indoor and outdoor
                                                                             water demands were
                                                                             estimated assuming 37%
                                                                             indoor use and 63% outdoor
                                                                             use, consistent with historical
                                                                             monthly production trends.




                                                                              Table 2 summarizes the
                                                                              water budget for the
                                                                              WaterPro system. Note that
                                                                              the culinary water system is
                                                                              used by some customers for
                                                                              irrigation as well as indoor
                                                                              use.




                                                                                                             41
As both Draper City and WaterPro further develop, the two systems will experience an overall increase
in water demand by the year 2050. While projections illustrated in Figure 13 indicate that each
system’s outdoor water use will grow - Draper City by 39% and WaterPro by 45% - indoor demand
projections diﬀer signiﬁcantly between the two systems. While estimates predict indoor demand to
grow 64% in the Draper City service area, they indicate a 27% decrease in culinary water use in the
WaterPro service area by 2050. WaterPro’s decrease is in part due to the expansion of the system’s
secondary water. As WaterPro expands secondary irrigation, the service area expects the outdoor use
of culinary water to decrease. While both systems will experience an overall increase outdoor water
demand, it is important to note that increased density across both systems mitigate demand through
the development of smaller lot sizes.
As reﬂected in Table 3, the two systems have a total reliable supply of 14,466 ac-ft. Both systems also
have access to additional water through the JVWCD system on an as-available basis. See Figure 14 for
a complete comparison of water budget data of existing and future water demand and source
capacity.




Figure 13: Existing & Future (Draper-2060 &                Figure 14: Water Demand Budget for Draper &




                                                                                                          42
WATER SUPPLY & DEMAND
ANALYSIS
As illustrated in Table 3, projections indicate that
at full buildout, water demand is expected to
exceed existing supply in both Draper City and
WaterPro systems. To close the gap between
existing supply and future demand, both systems
are taking steps to increase reliable supply. While
Draper City is working with JVWCD to increase
their contract volume to cover the existing and
future demands of their service area, WaterPro is
planning to develop a system of shallow wells to
increase future irrigation source capacity.
Continued coordination between Draper City,
JVWCD, and WaterPro will be critical to align water
supply planning with growth projections.

INFRASTRUCTURE
ASSESSMENT & ANALYSIS
Draper City Service Area
Future demands in the Draper City service area
will require several infrastructure upgrades. The
2025 Drinking Water Master Plan identiﬁes that
additional source redundancy is needed
throughout the Suncrest Drive foothills region,
which will also require transmission lines and
pump stations. In addition, increasing the
available source through contracts with JVWCD
will be necessary to meet future demands.
Growing demand will also require additional
storage capacity, such as two currently planned
storage tanks.

WaterPro Service Area
The Culinary & PI Water Master Plan (BC&A, 2020)
indicates there is suﬃcient source and storage to
meet future demands. A majority of the future
infrastructure requirements are centered around
the need to replace aging pipelines and install
additional pipelines to increase redundancy.




                                                       43
Water Conservation
WATER PLANNING CHALLENGES
While Draper City has taken signiﬁcant steps to conserve its water supply, it still faces water planning
challenges. Informed from both the water system analysis provided herein and interviews conducted with
Draper City’s water providers, the following water planning challenges provide insight into future
opportunities to safeguard its water supply in the years to come.

Outdoor Water Use
Outdoor water use makes up 63% of Draper’s water demand. While the city requires new developments to
meet water eﬃciency standards, the outdoor water use of existing developments is contingent on a variety
of challenges including the varied inﬂuence of tiered rates and climate ﬂuctuations. While tiered rates are
key to conservation, they can be inconsequential to users with higher incomes. In addition, while Draper
residents demonstrate a willingness to conserve during a drought, their increased water usage during good
snow years indicates a possible disconnect between ongoing water conservation, ecosystem health, and the
Great Salt Lake.

Long-term Supply for Planned Development
Both Draper City and WaterPro’s service areas will experience increased water demand in the coming
decades. With a present demand of 6,540 ac-ft/year (see Table 1) and a projected demand of 13,450 ac-ft/
year by 2060, Draper City’s water system demand is expected to more than double by 6910 ac-ft/yr of water
by 2060. With an existing source capacity of 4,560 ac-ft/year (see Table 3), Draper will need to obtain 8,890
ac-ft/year of water to meet demand by 2060. Acquiring supply for a major driver of future demand, The
Point development (see Map 1), will be contingent on continued collaboration between the state and
JVWCD. The Point development is taking its own steps to reduce per capita water use through its own water
reduction goals (See Table 4).

Within the WaterPro system, additional development is expected to be modest and culinary water use is
expected to decrease by 2,087 ac-ft/year by 2050 (see Table 2) due to conversion to irrigation use, irrigation
is expected to outpace the exchange with an increase of 3,155 ac-ft/year. This results in a net increase for
the WaterPro system demand of 1,068 ac-ft/year, highlighting the similar need to acquire supply to meet
future demand unless signiﬁcant outdoor water use is reduced.

Limited Redundancy
Both the Draper City Water System and WaterPro service areas require infrastructural upgrades to support
continuous and added redundancy. The Draper City service area in particular requires additional pumps
and transmission lines in the foothill region of Suncrest Drive to ensure supply in the event of a source
failure or emergency. Draper City’s 2025 Drinking Water Master Plan (HAL) identiﬁes this need alongside
water provider interviews.




                                                                                                           44
WATER CONSCIOUS PLANNING
Water conscious planning in Draper City spans a range of eﬀorts (see Table 9). Both the 2020 and 2025
Water Conservation Plans demonstrate sustained focus on infrastructure and policy changes. A continued
rollout of Automatic Metering Infrastructure alongside more eﬃcient leak detection, water redundancy
planning, water reuse infrastructure, the adoption of water and landscape eﬃciency standards, and water
conscious development present key systemic upgrades in the supply, delivery, and use of water.


    CHALLENGE ADDRESSED




   Residential       Non-Residential     Long-term supply         Limited
   Water Use           Water Use         for development        Redundancy


Automatic Metering Infrastructure (AMI) and Leak Detection



Draper City’s Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) installation and leak detection eﬀorts seek to reduce
the water lost to leaks between delivery from wholesaler to city and city to user. Not only will the completion
of this new metering allow the City to more eﬃciently track and repair leaks but also provide water users in
the Draper City water system service area real-time data to track their water use.

Water Redundancy Planning



In order to address the impact of a potential water source failure in the Draper foothills region, the City is
developing plans to install additional pump station and transmission lines to these upper pressurized zones.




Water Reuse
WaterPro is undertaking a water reuse initiative to supply recycled water to its secondary irrigation system,
replacing the lower-quality water from Utah Lake. The project involves building pipelines and linking to the
larger Jordan Valley Water Reclamation Facility (JBWRF) system to access more reliable and cleaner water for
irrigation. The goals of the project are to enhance water supply reliability, oﬀer higher-quality irrigation
water, extend the irrigation season, lower water rates, and provide an alternative to using the Jordan River
and Utah Lake. The initiative requires continued coordination and cooperation with Draper City and the
JVWCD.




                                                                                                            45
Outdoor Landscaping & Water Eﬃciency Standards
Draper City took a signiﬁcant step to increase water conservation by adopting the JVWCD Outdoor
Landscaping Standards and Water Eﬃciency Standards in 2023. These standards further strengthen twenty-
two years of evolving landscaping standards by seeking to reduce outdoor water use for new developments
by limiting turfgrass area, promoting water-wise landscape design, and requiring water eﬃcient irrigation
systems.


While the Outdoor Landscaping Standards and Water Eﬃciency Standards only applies to new
developments, its adoption also contributes to increasing water eﬃciency for existing developments. Draper
City’s adoption of JVWCD’s Water Eﬃciency Standard's, which are illustrated in Table 5, makes Draper
residents and business owners eligible for the Utah Water Savers Landscape Incentive Program, a turf
conversion rebate program. Table 6 demonstrate Draper residents are already applying for and participating
in this and other Utah Water Savers rebates including the Smart Controller Rebate and the Toilet Rebate.
Rebates and incentives are just one method of reducing water demand for existing developments. See Table
9 and the Goals and Strategies list for more information about Draper’s existing and potential rebate and
incentives promotion.




                                                                                                       46
Water-Conscious Development
Draper’s existing zoning code, the Comprehensive Zoning and Subdivision Code Update, compliance with
the state’s Moderate Income Housing Plan, and Station Area Plans increase opportunities for forms of
higher-density development that require less irrigation. The City’s Zoning Code contains residential zones
that allow lots from 40,000 s/f to as small as 4,000 s/f for single family homes, and lots as small as 1,000 s/f
for townhomes. While this represents a broad range of lot sizes, the City is exploring methods to reduce per
capita water use in new developments by revising ordinances and adopting policies that better promote
reduced lot size and increased density of new units. This will not only help the City reduce water demand
but also provide needed moderate-income housing within the City.
Projects in progress include the Comprehensive Zoning and Subdivision Code Update and the
implementation of four Station Area Plans. The Code Update will propose new or modiﬁed zoning districts in
order to encourage a diversity of housing types in the City’s medium-high residential density areas. This will
include standards for “missing middle” housing (smaller-scaled multi-family, or single-family homes that are
on smaller lots). In compliance with the Moderate Income Housing Plan, the City has reduced, and will
continue to look for ways to reduce regulations related to internal and detached accessory dwelling units in
residential zones. Internal accessory dwelling units may be permitted on lots as small as 6,000 s/f and
detached accessory dwelling units on lots as small as 12,000 s/f. This allows for a greater density of
residents on existing lots. Additionally, the City is working on implementing Station Area Plans for the Draper
Town Center TRAX Station, Crescent View TRAX Station, Kimballs Lane TRAX Station, and Draper FrontRunner
(Vista) Station, which will allow for higher density multi-family housing in speciﬁed areas around the existing
ﬁxed-rail stations.




                                                                                                             47
MEETING REGIONAL CONSERVATION GOALS
Utah is both one of the fastest growing and driest states in the country. In order to balance development
with scarce water supplies, the Utah Division of Water Resources released the Utah Regional Municipal and
Industrial (M&I) Water Conservation Goals Report, dividing Utah into nine water conservation regions each with
designated water use goals for 2030, 2040, and 2065. While Draper straddles two conservation regions - the
Salt Lake region and the Provo River region, Draper’s water system targets the Salt Lake conservation
region’s goals which include 187 GCPD or 11% baseline reduction by 2030 (see Table 7).
As seen in Table 8, the Draper City system already meets and exceeds the 2030 GCPD goal while WaterPro
is making progress towards meeting an 11% reduction by 2030.




                                                                                                           48
The impact of Draper City’s decrease in GCPD since 2015 and alignment with regional conservation goals
extends beyond its municipal boundary and into the Great Salt Lake Watershed, a 36,199-square-mile
closed basin spanning parts of Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, and Nevada. Home to 2.8 million people across 141
municipalities, it supports over 1.4 million acres of irrigated farmland and relies on water from ﬁve major
river basins—the Bear, Weber, Jordan, Utah Lake, and West Desert (see Map 2). The GSL’s water levels have
been in long-term decline, hitting a historic low in 2022, raising concerns for wildlife, public health, industry,
and agriculture. Straddling the Jordan River and Utah Lake basins, Draper City is part of this larger, regional
network of users whose individual eﬀorts are collectively contributing to how much water can reach the lake.




                                                                                                              49
Looking Forward
While Draper City faces water planning challenges, existing and future water conservation eﬀorts can play a
signiﬁcant role in improving demand. While water conservation will not directly address redundancy
requirements or substantially reduce demand for planned development in the Draper City service area,
conservation can play a key role in safeguarding existing supply.
The following two sections outline conservation opportunities as well as specify how those opportunities can
address Draper’s four conservation challenges – outdoor water use, long-term supply for planned
development, and limited redundancy. While the “Goals and Strategies” recommends new approaches of
increasing water conservation, Table 9 “Inventory of Current and Developing Water Use and Preservation
Strategies” catalogues Draper’s extensive existing and developing water conservation strategies which
should be continued.
By continuing to adopt and reﬁne the water eﬃcient practices outlined in these sections— such as water-
wise landscaping, education, and public outreach — Draper is taking meaningful steps towards sustainable
water management.




                                                                                                         50
Goals & Strategies
            CHALLENGE ADDRESSED
    CHALLENGE ADDRESSED



    Residential    Non-Residential    Long-term supply
     Water Use       Water Use        for development
    Residential    Non-Residential   Long-term supply
    Water Use        Water Use       for development




GOAL WU-1                                            GOAL WU-2
Strengthen the City’s water conservation             Develop additional citywide policies and
efforts through dedicated leadership,                ordinances that enhance water
support, and collaboration.                          conservation and efficiency through
·   Implementation 1.1: Water                        irrigation restrictions for existing
    Conservation Team: Explore the                   developments.
    formation of a Water Conservation Team           ·   Implementation 2.1: Time-of-Day
    to support the Water Quality and                     Watering Ordinance: Develop and
    Conservation Coordinator in addressing               implement to restrict outdoor watering
    existing and future water use and                    between the hours of 10am and 6pm for
    preservation goals.                                  all residential, institutional, and
·   Implementation 1.2: Water                            commercial properties.
    Conservation Intern: Consider                    ·   Implementation 2.2: Water Shortage
    developing a Water Conservation Intern               Plan: Develop to help protect public
    or similar position for the development              health, safety, and welfare during periods
    and support of additional programming,               of drought, temporary water shortage,
    outreach, and education.                             and supply interruption.




                                                                                                 51
GOAL WU-3                                         GOAL WU-4
Reduce water demand through water-                Increase public awareness of water
conserving development patterns that              conservation through educational
increase development density through              programming. Consider applying for
mechanisms such as modified lot size              the JVWCD Member Agency Grant to
and configuration.                                receive funding for the following.
·   Implementation 3.1: Transit-Oriented          ·   Implementation 4.1: DIY Water
    Development: Implement adopted                    Conserving Workshop Series: Expand
    Station Area Plans including Draper Town          Draper’s existing classes on Localscapes
    Center TRAX Station, Kimballs Lane TRAX           into a multi-topic DIY Water Conserving
    Station, and Draper FrontRunner Station           Workshop Series. Educate and empower
    to provide higher-density, water-                 residents with water conserving skills by
    conserving development.                           developing and implementing DIY
                                                      workshops such as Fix-A-Leak and Fix
·   Implementation 3.2: Zoning and                    Your Sprinklers.
    Subdivision Code Update: Complete
    update to zoning ordinances to propose        ·   Implementation 4.2: Promotional
    new or modified districts that encourage          Items: Provide residents with the
    infill of a variety of housing types in the       resources to conserve water at home by
    City’s medium-high residential areas,             providing free water conserving tools such
    including “missing middle” types, such as         as smart leak monitors, leak detection
    small-scale multifamily or smaller lot            tablets, and conservation kits at public
    single-family homes, which inherently use         events.
    less water than traditional development.      ·   Implementation 4.3: Beautiful Yard
                                                      Award Program: Encourage waterwise
                                                      design and annually recognize and award
                                                      households with exceptional water wise
                                                      yards through the development of a
                                                      Beautiful Yard Award Program. See South
                                                      Salt Lake’s Beautiful Award Program for
                                                      reference.
                                                  ·   Implementation 4.4: Strategic Water
                                                      Management Workshop: Partner with
                                                      the JVWCD to provide businesses the
                                                      opportunity to learn about water
                                                      conserving practices alongside incentives
                                                      and rebate programs.




                                                                                             52
GOAL WU-5                                        GOAL WU-6
Increase public awareness of water               Lead by example and increase water
conservation through the City’s website,         efficiency throughout Draper City’s
social media, and other digital tools.           public landscapes.
·   Implementation 5.1: Water                    ·  Implementation 6.1: Park Strip
    Conservation Webpage: Increase ease             Conversion Plan: Develop a plan to
    of access to water conservation
         Residential           Non-Residential      gradually convert DraperLimited
                                                 Long-term supply
                                                                             City park strips
    information  on
         Water Use   Draper City’s website
                                   Water   by
                                         Use        to water wise
                                                 for development
                                                                  landscapes.
                                                                       redundancy in the
    consolidating water conservation             ·   Implementation 6.2: Turffoothills
                                                                                   Reduction
    information from the Water and
                                                     Plan: Develop a plan to reduce turf in
    Stormwater webpage and the
                                                     Draper City parks and other civic
    Landscaping webpage into one Water
                                                     properties that does not fill a recreational
    Conservation webpage.
                                                     role.
·   Implementation 5.2: Commercial
                                                 ·   Implementation 6.3: Irrigation
    Opportunities: Promote commercial
                                                     System Upgrade Plan: Develop a plan
    rebate programs by creating a
                                                     to upgrade older Draper City park and
    commercial opportunities section on
                                                     civic irrigation systems to more water
    existing Landscaping webpage or
                                                     efficient systems.
    potential Water Conservation webpage.
    Section may include JVWCD’s Landscape
    Inventive Program, Utah Water Savers
    rebates, and the JVWCD’s Strategic Water
    Management resources.
·   Implementation 5.3: Social Media
    Calendar: Enhance existing outreach to
    residents and businesses by developing a
    Social Media Calendar to plan seasonal
    water conservation resources, programs,
    news, and public information campaigns.
    Refer to Slow The Flow, USU’s Center for
    Water Efficient Landscaping, and
    WaterSense for potential messaging.
·   Implementation 5.4: EyeOnWater
    App: Promote the EyeOnWater app at the
    conclusion of the AMI replacement. The
    EyeOnWater app allows user to connect
    to their utility account and view their
    water usage and set up leak notifications.




                                                                                               53
54
55
56
57
     CITY GOALS AND POLICIES
     Chapter 8




28
     Plan Goals and Policies
     The following sections identify several goals, along with broad policies and specific
     action steps to accomplish the goals. These goals are interconnected and they have been
     developed together with the Plan’s values.

     ECONOMIC VITALITY GOALS
     Many activities cultivate Draper’s economic vitality and diversity, including retail and
     varied employment opportunities along the major thoroughfares that dissect the City. By
     focusing on these strengths, Draper is able to broaden its tax base and provide high quality
     employment opportunities for its citizens. Maintaining a healthy environment for existing
     and future business is essential for the long-term vitality of Draper. The purpose of the
     following goals and policies is to increase the City’s taxable base, the quality of employment
     opportunities, the diversity of business offerings, and the quality of business districts while
     ensuring the sustainability of the economy and improving general quality of life.


     GOAL EV-1                                        GOAL EV-3
     Foster new and existing economic                 Sustain the long-term economic
     activities and employment opportunities          wellbeing of the city and its citizens
                                                      through redevelopment and
       • Create a plan to grow and expand
         the city’s economic base by targeting        revitalization efforts
         specific economic sectors for expansion
         in, or relocation to Draper.                   • Encourage quality redevelopment in
                                                          employment areas to provide new
       • Emphasize the retention and expansion            jobs, new retail, and new entertainment
         of businesses in Draper and provide              opportunities in the Draper market.
         support mechanisms for small
         businesses in Draper.                          • Encourage and support the renovation
                                                          and reuse of underutilized or vacant
       • Support entrepreneurial development              parcels, buildings, and shopping
         and incubator activities to grow and             centers.
         support start-up businesses.
                                                        • Improve and enhance the links between
                                                          the physical and social relationship
     GOAL EV-2                                            of non-residential land uses and the
     Encourage and support a diversity                    surrounding residential neighborhoods.
     of businesses
                                                        • Support and encourage public and
       • Nurture and support established                  private economic development projects.
         businesses through economic
         development programs and resources.
       • Foster a pro-business environment
         conducive to attracting new businesses.
       • Diversify Draper’s business and retail
         community so that it includes a variety
         of business types.
       • Maintain a strong, aggressive position
         in attracting new, high-quality retail and
         entertainment experiences to
         the community.
59
HOUSING & NEIGHBORHOODS GOALS
The demographics of our community are changing and land identified for housing
development is becoming increasingly limited. Now and in the future we will need to
focus attention on the revitalization and preservation of our more mature neighborhoods,
to seek creative infill development strategies, and to encourage a diversity of housing
that accommodates a variety of income levels, households, and socioeconomic needs.
The purpose of the following goals and policies is to promote the organization and
enhancement of neighborhoods, and to provide the opportunity for comfortable and well-
maintained housing for all residents. The 2019 Draper Moderate-Income Housing Plan,
Appendix A, as well as the public’s consolidated value statements were the basis from
which these goals were created.

GOAL HN-1                                      GOAL HN-3
Encourage housing diversity along              Ensure the availability and integration
major transit investment corridors             of flexible housing that supports
                                               mobility, independent living, and
  • Consider a variety of strategies to
    increase housing intensity and diversity   services for seniors and those with
    in appropriate locations, including near   special needs
    commercial areas, transit centers, major
    employment centers, and major transit        • Support housing opportunities to meet
    investment corridors.                          the unique housing needs of the elderly
                                                   and disabled.
  • Support public-private partnerships
    whereby developers provide a wide            • Encourage links between housing
    variety of housing options for Draper’s        and adjacent community facilities,
    residents and future residents.                such as senior centers, childcare
                                                   centers, preschools, and youth
GOAL HN-2                                          centers to provide opportunities for
                                                   intergenerational connections.
Advance the preservation and
revitalization of Draper’s mature                • Support agencies and organizations
                                                   that provide shelter, housing, and
neighborhoods to ensure a healthy,                 services for seniors and those with
safe, and attractive place to call home            special needs.
  • Proactively communicate with                 • Participate actively in identifying
    affected residents and business                regional partners and regional solutions
    owners during the planning and                 for those with special needs that may
    implementation of development, or              be most appropriately addressed on a
    redevelopment projects.                        regional basis.
  • Encourage community involvement            GOAL HN-4
    in the maintenance and enhancement
    of properties and rights-of-way in         Provide a wide-range of housing for
    residential neighborhoods.                 different life stages and income levels
  • Leverage state, federal, and matching        • Find creative solutions to encourage
    funding opportunities for housing              affordable housing and increase home
    rehabilitation and preservation of high-       ownership for first-time home buyers
    quality, safe, and affordable housing.         and moderate-income households.
  • Encourage adaptive reuse of existing         • Support reduction of government
    structures where feasible and                  and regulatory constraints to
    context appropriate.                           enhance housing affordability, such
                                                                                              60
         as streamlining project coordination        • Preserve the quality landscapes from
         and processing time and promoting             unnecessary visual disruption by
         innovative and creative design.               ensuring that all development makes
                                                       maximum use of natural screening of
       • Consider incentives that encourage the        the terrain.
         development of diverse housing types,
         including smaller, more affordable units.
                                                 GOAL EGM-2
       • Support the development of a full range Achieve a sustainable balance between
         of housing for seniors to age in place. the conservation, use, and development
       • Increase the availability of housing    of Draper’s natural resources
         opportunities for moderate
         income households.                          • Encourage local industry to adopt
                                                       water and energy conservation
                                                       measures that would minimize impacts
     COMMUNITY MOBILITY GOALS                          to the environment in their operations.
     The Master Transportation Plan provides         • Manage watersheds to protect, restore,
     specific recommendations and goals for the        and maintain the integrity of streams,
     future as outlined in Appendix B.                 washes, and floodplains.
                                                     • Develop regulations and guidelines to
     OPEN SPACE AND RECREATION GOALS                   conserve natural resources and protect
     The Open Space Master Plan provides               the environmentally sensitive lands from
     specific recommendations and goals for the        development impacts.
     future as outlined in the adopted plan.         • Protect life and property by prohibiting
                                                       development on slopes greater than
     ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING &                          30 percent.
     GROWTH MANAGEMENT GOALS                         • Where appropriate, require slope
                                                       stability analyses to be conducted
     The purpose of the following goals and
                                                       as part of any development review
     policies is to ensure that environmental
                                                       process, including an assessment of
     stewardship occurs in a way that is
                                                       debris flow hazards.
     beneficial for economic development,
     while maintaining a high quality of life for    • Preserve local plants, wildlife, and
     our citizens.                                     natural resources to maintain
                                                       the biodiversity.
     GOAL EGM-1
                                                     • Protect historical and archaeological
     Protect and enhance unique and                    resources, where possible.
     significant features of Draper’s natural
                                                     • Manage natural resources by
     environment such as meadows, ridges,              cooperatively using the best ecological,
     hillsides, waterways, vista areas, and            social, and economic information to
     unique vegetation                                 enhance, restore, and sustain the
                                                       health, productivity, and biodiversity of
       • Consider the visual impact of                 our ecosystem.
         proposed development during the
         zoning process and before granting
         development approvals.
       • Encourage all development proposals
         to reflect the unique characteristics of
         the neighborhood within which they
         are located.
61
GOAL EGM-3                                      GOAL EGM-6
Conserve water and encourage the                Reduce the risk to life and property
reuse of water                                  from the impacts of natural and
                                                development-related geologic hazards
  • Review future development impacts
    on water use and encourage                   • Ensure that land use activities do not
    development and design that fosters            increase the risk from geologic hazards
    water conservation.                            in accordance with the Geologic Hazard
  • Encourage landscape improvements               Ordinance, and ensure that grading and
    that limit the amount of turf area and         excavation disturbances associated with
    make optimal use of low water                  development do not accelerate erosion.
    usage plants.                                • Prevent the loss of life and property
                                                   associated with the seismic hazards
                                                   in the region by designing buildings in
GOAL EGM-4                                         compliance with current International
Reduce energy consumption and                      Building Code requirements.
promote energy conservation                      • Protect life and property from the
                                                   increased risk of flooding or damaging
  • Promote mechanical, physical, and              stream or drainage channels through
    natural energy conservation measures           the application of stream setbacks and
    in building and site design.                   FEMA flood zone requirements.
  • Promote solar access opportunities           • Encourage identification and protection
    in building and site design.                   of wetland areas by requiring an
                                                   investigation of impacts prior to
  • Encourage the commercial and                   development near or surrounding
    residential sectors to consider                water facilities.
    energy conservation in design
    and construction.

GOAL EGM-5
Promote local and regional efforts to
improve air quality
  • Participate in regional discussion
    and efforts to coordinate air quality
    initiatives, and maintain regional
    compliance with air quality standards.
  • Support the development of programs
    that allow traffic reduction incentives,
    such as flextime, transit passes,
    ridesharing, free parking,
    telecommuting, etc.
  • Limit airborne particulates by mitigating
    man-made disturbances.




                                                                                             62
     PUBLIC & CULTURAL RESOURCES GOALS
     The purpose of the following goals and policies is to provide community facilities and
     human services that are progressive, accessible, and responsive to the needs of
     the community.

     GOAL PCR-1                                            in the provision of services throughout
                                                           the community and the installation
     Provide city service facilities to meet               and maintenance of facilities in their
     the needs of the community                            respective franchise areas.
       • Strategically locate public facilities and      • Encourage utilities to be located
         parks to serve all neighborhoods in the           outside of washes and drainage
         City and to serve the needs of growing            easements, and open space along
         portions of the community.                        transmission line corridors.
       • Provide public facilities to meet existing      • Manage the visual impact in rights-
         and anticipated community needs.                  of-way of power and communication
                                                           system hardware and encourage the
       • Provide fully accessible parks and                under-grounding of electrical lines.
         public facilities to all residents and
         visitors with connections to various          GOAL PCR-4
         means of transportation.
                                                       Pursue private and governmental
     GOAL PCR-2                                        partnerships with other jurisdictions,
     Protect the health, safety, and welfare           agencies, and businesses to achieve
     of the public from the impacts of                 maximum efficiency in service delivery
     flooding                                          and to address the needs of the
                                                       Draper community
       • Promote sound and appropriate
         floodplain and storm water                      • Maintain a close collaborative
         management solutions for the variety of           relationship with the Canyons School
         areas within the City.                            District and Alpine School District to
                                                           maximize and coordinate the joint use
       • Develop and maintain a cost-effective             of school services and facilities for
         and efficient city-wide drainage system.          public benefit, particularly for young
       • Avoid, to the extent possible,                    people, families, and seniors.
         development in floodplain and flood-
         prone areas.                                  GOAL PCR-5
                                                       Provide an integrated system of
     GOAL PCR-3                                        services, resources, and opportunities
     Encourage provision of power and                  to reinforce quality of life for all draper
     communication systems that match                  residents
     the character of draper and provide
     reliable, efficient service for citizens,           • Provide immediate service to Draper
                                                           citizens in need of emergency services.
     visitors, and businesses
                                                         • Ensure that Draper citizens with
       • Cooperate with all power and                      disabilities have the same opportunity
         communications utility companies                  as all others in our community in
         (electrical, gas, telephone, cable,               terms of access to facilities, services,
         microwave, satellite, and future utilities)       transportation, education, training,
                                                           and employment.

63
LAND USE & CHARACTER GOALS
The Land Use and character goals have been created to provide for a wide variety of
employment, shopping, entertainment, civic/cultural, educational, and residential uses
connected by a major street grid system, open space and pedestrian trails, and bikeways.
The allocation of land uses within the community has been based primarily on Plan goals
and policies, economic development strategies, circulation system, peripheral land use and
policy influences, and site characteristics.
Area Plans, Commercial Special Districts, and special overlays outlined in City Ordinance, as
it may from time to time be changed, provide additional information and a greater level of
specificity.

GOAL LUC-1                                     GOAL LUC-2
Enhance Draper’s identity as a                 Participate in regional planning to
community with a high quality                  coordinate land uses and to
of life, a diverse economic base, and          maintain the integrity and efficiency of
a rich mixture of housing and                  regional networks
leisure opportunities
                                                 • Support the location of regional land
  • Encourage land uses that contribute            uses, such as major employment and
    to the character of the community and          mixed-use centers along regional
    define Draper’s unique identity within         mobility corridors.
    the region.                                  • Support the regional open space
  • Support a regional open space network          network using local, county, and
    that celebrates Draper heritage                regional plans as a baseline to
    and identity as a rural, mountain              coordinate with adjacent jurisdictions’
    community, and maintains the viability         open space systems, recreation
    and connectedness of the natural               opportunities, storm water drainage
    surroundings.                                  corridors, sensitive wildlife habitat and
                                                   migration routes, and the like.
  • Integrate the pattern of land uses and
    mobility systems in ways that allow for   GOAL LUC-3
    shorter and fewer automobile trips and
    greater choices for mobility.
                                              Develop land use patterns that are
                                              compatible with and support a variety
  • Allow for a diversity of residential uses of mobility opportunities, choices, and
    and supporting services that provide for
    the needs of the community.               service provisions
  • Ensure the highest level of services and     • Support the physical integration of
    public amenities are provided to the           residential uses with office and retail
    citizens of Draper at the lowest costs.        uses to provide opportunities for
                                                   pedestrian-oriented development.
  • Support a balance between jobs
    and housing by integrating housing,          • Provide an interconnected open space
    employment, and supporting                     system that is accessible to the public,
    infrastructure in mixed-use centers            including pedestrian, cycling and
    located at appropriate locations.              equestrian links, recreation areas, and
                                                   drainage ways.
  • Ensure that basic levels of
    environmental health and human               • Encourage land uses with the highest
    services are provided for residents of         intensity be located in areas conducive
    all socioeconomic levels within the            to a variety of transportation modes.
    community.
                                                                                               64
       • Guide growth to locations contiguous         are limited and local and regional
         to existing development to provide city      transportation access is available.
         services in a cost-effective manner.
                                                    • Encourage transitions between different
     GOAL LUC-4                                       land uses and intensities through
                                                      the use of gradual land use changes,
     Promote land use patterns that                   particularly where natural or man-made
     conserve resources such as land, clean           buffers are not available.
     air, water, and energy, and serve all          • Focus intense land uses along major
     people within the community                      transportation investment corridors.

       • Concentrate future development in          • Protect sensitive natural features from
         growth areas and other centers of            incompatible development and maintain
         activity, thereby discouraging sprawl,       the integrity of natural systems.
         conserving energy, and promoting           • Incorporate appropriate land
         community identity.                          use transitions to help integrate
       • Integrate land use and transportation        neighborhood services, schools, parks,
         policies to promote a decrease in            and other civic amenities into the
         vehicle miles traveled (VMT) to reduce       surrounding neighborhoods and
         air pollution and resource consumption,      natural environments.
         increase interaction among citizens, and
         provide a stronger sense of community.    GOAL LUC-6
       • Protect and revitalize established areas/
                                                   Provide a broad variety of land uses
         neighborhoods by promoting new            that create a high level of synergy and
         development and the adaptive reuse of a sense of community among those
         existing community resources.             who work, live, and play within mixed-
       • Minimize environmental hazards and        use neighborhoods
         protect the natural character of the
         arid, mountain setting by prohibiting      • Incorporate a diverse range of
         development on environmentally               residential and non-residential uses
         sensitive lands.                             within mixed-use neighborhoods.

     GOAL LUC-5                                     • Promote residential uses that support
                                                      the scale and function of retail,
     Encourage the transition of land uses            commercial, and employment uses
     from more intense regional and city-             within mixed-use neighborhoods.
     wide activity areas to less intense land       • Encourage redevelopment that
     uses within local neighborhoods                  invigorates an area while also
                                                      respecting the character of adjacent
       • Ensure that neighborhoods transition         neighborhoods.
         to one another with appropriate land
         uses, development patterns, character      • Integrate public land uses such as
         elements, and access to mobility             parks, schools, and other civic uses to
         networks.                                    act as the nucleus of neighborhoods
                                                      and promote community interaction.
       • Maintain the natural integrity of
         open space areas by ensuring that          • Develop and reinforce links (i.e. trails,
         development is sensitively placed and        paths, open space, transit, and streets)
         designed contiguously with existing          within and between residential, retail,
         developed areas and neighborhoods.           employment, recreational, and other
                                                      public land uses.
       • Locate employment uses where
         impacts on residential neighborhoods
65
APPENDIX A
Draper Housing Study
              Draper City


Moderate Income Housing Study
                 September 2022
                                                                Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Introduction
  Housing growth and affordability has been capturing headlines across the country. The demand for new
  housing units is especially strong in Utah where the population is projected to double in the next 25-30
  years. The State’s economy is strong, having an unemployment rate of 2% while its annual total nonfarm
  employment increased by 56,000 jobs last year 1

  Utah’s households are unique. The State has the lowest median age in the nation and the highest median
  household size, thereby influencing the type of housing product that is needed in the State. While Utah is
  showing signs of following national trends, with median age increasing and household size decreasing,
  demographics in Utah are still considerably different from that in the rest of the nation. However, as
  demographics change over time, housing product will also need to adapt to ensure that the needs of all
  age and income groups are met.

  Utah is experiencing rapid growth and house prices have increased even faster. This increasing gap
  between wages and home prices makes it ever more difficult for a first-time, or move-up, homebuyer to
  purchase real estate. In response to these economic conditions, many communities are considering
  strategies to reduce housing costs through a variety of means as discussed in this study.

  The purpose of this report is to analyze current moderate income housing conditions in Draper City
  (“Draper” or “the City”) and to project the current and future housing needs in the City. This report provides
  the City with data and information it needs in order to update and implement its annual moderate income
  housing plan with the Department of Workforce Services as required by Utah HB 462.


  Growth Projections
  Draper’s population and number of households within the City has shown steady growth. The projections
  for total population, household size, and projected households for Draper and Salt Lake County can be seen
  below. It should be noted that the projected household size is assumed to be the same over the next 10
  years for the projections.

  Table 1: Draper Projected Population and Households
   Year                                  Projected Population   Projected Household Size   Projected Households
      2022                                            51,749                       3.21                 16,121
      2023                                            52,800                       3.21                 16,449
      2024                                            53,873                       3.21                 16,783
      2025                                            54,968                       3.21                 17,124
      2026                                            56,085                       3.21                 17,472
      2027                                            57,224                       3.21                 17,827
      2028                                            58,387                       3.21                 18,189
      2029                                            59,573                       3.21                 18,559
      2030                                            60,783                       3.21                 18,936
      2031                                            62,018                       3.21                 19,320
  Source: U.S. Census Bureau, ACS 5-Year Estimate



  1
      Zions Bank, Economic Insights

                                                                                                                 1
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                     Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Table 2: Salt Lake County Projected Population and Households
   Year                                   Projected Population       Projected Household Size   Projected Households
      2022                                               1,204,308                       2.25               408,240
      2023                                               1,222,465                       2.25               414,395
      2024                                               1,240,895                       2.25               420,642
      2025                                               1,259,603                       2.25               426,984
      2026                                               1,278,594                       2.25               433,422
      2027                                               1,297,871                       2.25               439,956
      2028                                               1,317,438                       2.25               446,589
      2029                                               1,337,300                       2.25               453,322
      2030                                               1,357,462                       2.25               460,157
      2031                                               1,377,928                       2.25               467,094
  Source: U.S. Census Bureau, ACS 5-Year Estimate

  Draper has seen a significant increase in its median household income over the past 10 years, with median
  income in 2012 only being $89,848. 2 Based on the historical growth, the median income is expected to
  reach $139,774 by 2027.

  Table 3: Draper Median Household Income, 5-Year Projection
                               Year                                                Median Income
                               2020                                                  $112,541
                               2021                                                  $116,080
                               2022                                                  $119,729
                               2023                                                  $123,494
                               2024                                                  $127,377
                               2025                                                  $131,382
                               2026                                                  $135,513
                               2027                                                  $139,774
  Source: U.S. Census Bureau, ACS 5-Year Estimate 2020

  The state of Utah has seen significant increases in median housing prices over the past 2 years. Draper
  has been no exception with an increase in median home prices of almost $300,000 since 2020. Table 4
  shows the historical median housing prices dating back to 2008. To project the median housing prices for
  the next 5 years, the average annual price increase over last 15 years was added each year from 2022 to
  2027. These projected median housing prices for five years can be seen on table 5.

  Table 4: Draper Historical Median Housing Prices
                              Year                                              Median Housing Price
                               2008                                                  $373,350
                               2009                                                  $345,250
                               2010                                                  $339,000
                               2011                                                  $352,500
                               2012                                                  $327,950
                               2013                                                  $409,900

  2
      ACS 2012 Estimate, Draper, Utah

                                                                                                                   2
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                 Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Table 4: Draper Historical Median Housing Prices (Continued)
                           Year                                             Median Housing Price
                           2014                                                  $372,825
                           2015                                                  $404,500
                           2016                                                  $449,457
                           2017                                                  $482,250
                           2018                                                  $510,000
                           2019                                                  $545,000
                           2020                                                  $600,000
                           2021                                                  $600,248
                           2022                                                  $880,200
       Average Annual House Price Increase for 15 years:                          $33,790
  Source: U.S. Census Bureau, ACS 5-Year Estimate

  Table 5: Draper Median Housing Prices, 5-Year Projection
                           Year                                             Median Housing Price
                               2022                                               $880,200
                               2023                                               $913,990
                               2024                                               $947,780
                               2025                                               $981,570
                               2026                                              $1,015,360
                               2027                                              $1,049,150
  Source: Salt Lake Tribune



  Affordability Thresholds by AMI
  Housing in Draper primarily consists of single-family homes, with most of the housing in the City being very
  new and in good condition. The City has had an increase in the construction of multi-family units in the past
  5 years which has helped increase the affordability of housing. In order to determine the opportunity for
  low- to moderate-income households to live in the City, this section delineates what is affordable for
  targeted income groups at 80 percent, 50 percent, and 30 percent of the Area Median Income.

  The FY2022 U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) AMI targeted income group cut-
  offs are shown in the table below. HUD calculates the AMI assuming 4 persons in a family; however,
  Draper’s average household size is closer to 3 persons in a household. As a result, this study will use the
  income limits for 3 persons in a family as provided by HUD.

  Table 6: Draper Income Thresholds for Targeted Income Groups
   Area Median Income                   Persons in Family          80% of AMI       50% of AMI       30% of AMI
   $102,400                                                4          $81,900          $51,200          $30,700
                                                           3          $73,750          $46,100          $27,650
  Source: HUD

  At these income levels, about 32 percent of the households in Draper are considered low- to moderate-
  income and fall into a targeted income group.



                                                                                                               3
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                               Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study




  Table 7: Draper Estimated Number of Households by Targeted Income Group

   Affordability                                                                         Number of Households

   50% - 80% of AMI                                                                                        2,311
   30% - 50% of AMI                                                                                        1,079
   <30% of AMI                                                                                             1,070
   Cumulative Total                                                                                        4,459
  Source: U.S. Census Bureau, ACS 2020 Estimate

  HUD considers an affordable monthly housing payment for either a mortgage or rent to be no greater than
  30 percent of gross monthly income. The 30 percent threshold includes utilities and other housing costs
  such as mortgage and hazard insurance.

  Table 8 below shows affordable monthly allowances for each of the targeted income group levels. These
  amounts represent total housing costs affordable at 30 percent of gross income. The allowance considers
  affordability for either a mortgage or rental rate. A family choosing housing would need to factor utilities
  and other fees for a given housing unit within this affordable range. For example, a household of 3 at the
  80 percent AMI threshold has a monthly housing allowance of $1,844. If utilities are $300, the family can
  afford a rent or mortgage payment of $1,544 per month.

  Table 8: Draper Affordable Monthly Housing Allowances for Targeted Income Groups
                                                                    80% of AMI       50% of AMI       30% of AMI
   Monthly Housing Allowance
                                                                        $1,844          $1,152             $691
   (Including Utilities)
   Monthly Housing Payment
                                                                        $1,544            $852             $391
   Allowance (less $300 in Utilities)

  Table 9 shows the home price ranges affordable for household income categories to purchase at various
  interest rates. Note the significant difference the interest rate makes on affordability. This assumes utility
  payments at $300 per month, mortgage and hazard insurance, interest at the given rates, 30-year mortgage
  term and a ten percent down payment. Currently, interest rates are higher than normal, making housing in
  the City much less affordable.

  Table 9: Draper Affordable Home Price Ranges by Income Category and Mortgage Interest Rate
                                                             Home Price Range
   Household Income
   Range                                                            5% Mortgage
                                       4% Mortgage                                                   6% Mortgage

                                      Low         High        Low           High               Low          High
   Less than $14,999                  $0       $15,179         $0        $13,718             $0          $12,447
   $15,000 to $24,999            $15,184       $65,791    $13,722        $59,458        $12,451          $53,952
   $25,000 to $34,999            $65,796      $116,403    $59,462       $105,198        $53,956          $95,456
   $35,000 to $49,999           $116,408      $192,321   $105,203       $173,809        $95,460         $157,713
   $50,000 to $74,999           $192,327      $318,852   $173,813       $288,159       $157,717         $261,474
   $75,000 to $99,999           $318,857      $445,383   $288,164       $402,510       $261,478         $365,235


                                                                                                               4
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                 Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Table 9: Draper Affordable Home Price Ranges by Income Category and Mortgage Interest Rate (Continued)
                                                               Home Price Range
   Household Income
   Range                                                                5% Mortgage
                                              4% Mortgage                                           6% Mortgage

                                      Low            High       Low               High       Low             High
   $100,000 to
                                $445,388         $698,444   $402,515          $631,211   $365,239      $572,757
   $149,999
   $150,000 to
                                $698,449         $951,505   $631,216          $859,913   $572,761      $780,279
   $199,999
   $200,000 or more             $951,510             N/A    $859,917              N/A    $780,283              N/A

  Translating these affordable home values to affordability for targeted income groups, a household at 80
  percent of AMI can afford a home in Draper up to $312,531 (shaded in table 10 below) at a four percent
  interest rate, with the same assumptions used in the above table.

  Table 10: Draper Affordable Home Price Ranges by Targeted Income Group and Mortgage Interest Rate
   Household                                                      Home Price Range
   Income
   Range                                        4% Mortgage            5% Mortgage             6% Mortgage
                   Income      Income
                   Range -     Range -         Low         High        Low        High         Low       High
                   Low         High
   50% to 80%
                   $46,100     $73,750    $172,588 $312,531 $155,974 $282,446 $141,530 $256,290
   of AMI
   30% to 50%
                   $27,650     $46,100     $79,208 $172,588        $71,584 $155,974        $64,954 $141,530
   of AMI
   < 30% of
                   $0          $27,650           $0     $79,208         $0     $71,584          $0    $64,954
   AMI

  The next table shows monthly rental allowances for all income categories after assuming $300 a month
  utility allowance.

  Table 11: Draper Rental Allowances by Household Income Category
   Income Category                                                     Low                                   High
   $10,000 to $14,999                                                    $0                                 $375
   $15,000 to $24,999                                                  $375                                 $625
   $25,000 to $34,999                                                  $625                                 $875
   $35,000 to $49,999                                                  $875                                $1,250
   $50,000 to $74,999                                              $1,250                                  $1,875
   $75,000 to $99,999                                              $1,875                                  $2,500
   $100,000 to $149,999                                            $2,500                                  $3,750
   $150,000 to $199,999                                            $3,750                                  $5,000
   $200,000 or more                                                $5,000                                    N/A




                                                                                                                   5
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                      Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Current Housing Availability and Needs for Low to Moderate Income Households
  Draper is in need of more housing units that are affordable for low to moderate income households. This
  section analyzes the current housing supply that is affordable to targeted income groups and needs for
  additional housing in order for the City to meet its proportionate share of housing that is affordable to the
  targeted income groups in Salt Lake County.
  Table 12 shows the number of units (not including rental units) that are available in each affordability
  threshold based on assessed tax value. There are currently only 142 total units that fall within these
  thresholds in Draper.

  Table 12: Number of Single Family, Condo, and PUD Units affordable by Targeted Income Group in Draper

                                                                                Affordable Home      Number of Units
   Household Income                                  Estimated Number of
                                 Income Range                                    Price Range (4%       (Not Including
   Level                                                      Households
                                                                                       Mortgage)        Rental Units)

   50% to 80% of AMI         $46,100 - $73,750                       2,311   $172,588 - $312,531                    140
   30% to 50% of AMI         $27,650 - $46,100                       1,079    $79,208 - $172,588                      2
   < 30% of AMI                       < $27,650                      1,070          $0 - $79,208                      0
  Source: ZPFI, Salt Lake and Utah County Assessor, ACS 2020

  Table 13 and figure 1, on the following page, show the total number of housing units, listed by the County-
  assessed market value. As can be seen, there are very few housing units under $300,000 in the City and a
  large number of homes over $1,000,000. In fact, over 17 percent of the total housing units in Draper are
  over $1,000,000. It should be noted that market assessed values often do not match exactly with current
  market prices which are subject to changing market conditions whereas assessed values are generally
  updated only annually.

  Table 13: Assessed Housing Values in Draper
   Home Value                                          # of Units                % of Total         Cumulative % Total
   <$125,000                                                     0                   0.00%                      0.00%
   $125,000 - $139,999                                           1                   0.01%                      0.01%
   $140,000 - $149,999                                           0                   0.00%                      0.01%
   $150,000 - $159,999                                           1                   0.01%                      0.02%
   $160,000 - $169,999                                           0                   0.00%                      0.02%
   $170,000 - $179,999                                           0                   0.00%                      0.02%
   $180,000 - $189,999                                           3                   0.02%                      0.04%
   $190,000 - $199,999                                           0                   0.00%                      0.04%
   $200,000 - $219,999                                           2                   0.02%                      0.05%
   $220,000 - $239,999                                           0                   0.00%                      0.05%
   $240,000 - $259,999                                           7                   0.05%                      0.11%
   $260,000 - $279,999                                          36                   0.28%                      0.38%
   $280,000 - $299,999                                          61                   0.47%                      0.85%
   $300,000 - $324,999                                          98                   0.75%                      1.60%
   $325,000 - $349,999                                         227                   1.74%                      3.35%
   $350,000 - $374,999                                         349                   2.68%                      6.03%


                                                                                                                      6
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Table 13: Assessed Housing Values in Draper (Continued)
   Home Value                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    # of Units                                                                                                                                                                     % of Total                                                                                                                  Cumulative % Total
   $375,000 - $399,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               428                                                                                                                                                                 3.29%                                                                                                                                                                              9.31%
   $400,000 - $424,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               487                                                                                                                                                                 3.74%                                                                                                                                                                       13.05%
   $425,000 - $449,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               394                                                                                                                                                                 3.03%                                                                                                                                                                       16.08%
   $450,000 - $474,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               492                                                                                                                                                                 3.78%                                                                                                                                                                       19.86%
   $475,000 - $499,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               584                                                                                                                                                                 4.48%                                                                                                                                                                       24.34%
   $500,000 - $549,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1142                                                                                                                                                                     8.77%                                                                                                                                                                       33.11%
   $550,000 - $599,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1100                                                                                                                                                                     8.45%                                                                                                                                                                       41.56%
   $600,000 - $649,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1082                                                                                                                                                                     8.31%                                                                                                                                                                       49.87%
   $650,000 - $699,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               905                                                                                                                                                                 6.95%                                                                                                                                                                       56.81%
   $700,000 - $749,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               764                                                                                                                                                                 5.87%                                                                                                                                                                       62.68%
   $750,000 - $799,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               676                                                                                                                                                                 5.19%                                                                                                                                                                       67.87%
   $800,000 - $899,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1097                                                                                                                                                                     8.42%                                                                                                                                                                       76.30%
   $900,000 - $999,999                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               853                                                                                                                                                                 6.55%                                                                                                                                                                       82.85%
   $1,000,000 or more                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2234                                                                                                                                                              17.15%                                                                                                                                                                      100.00%
  Source: Utah and Salt Lake County Assessor’s Database

  Figure 1: Assessed Housing Values in Draper

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            # of Units
   2,500
   2,000
   1,500
   1,000
     500
        0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $1,000,000 or more
            <$125,000
                        $125,000 - $139,999
                                              $140,000 - $149,999
                                                                    $150,000 - $159,999
                                                                                          $160,000 - $169,999
                                                                                                                $170,000 - $179,999
                                                                                                                                      $180,000 - $189,999
                                                                                                                                                            $190,000 - $199,999
                                                                                                                                                                                  $200,000 - $219,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                        $220,000 - $239,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              $240,000 - $259,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $260,000 - $279,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $280,000 - $299,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $300,000 - $324,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $325,000 - $349,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $350,000 - $374,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  $375,000 - $399,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $400,000 - $424,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              $425,000 - $449,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $450,000 - $474,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $475,000 - $499,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $500,000 - $549,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $550,000 - $599,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $600,000 - $649,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  $650,000 - $699,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $700,000 - $749,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              $750,000 - $799,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $800,000 - $899,999
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $900,000 - $999,999




  Source: Utah and Salt Lake County Assessor’s Database



  Multi-Family Rental Affordability
  Rental prices are important to consider in the affordability of the current housing stock. In addition to units
  available to purchase, the City has a number of multi-family rental options that include 3,343 rental
  apartment units. These complexes, with the unit mixes, are shown below. The number of units, square feet
  and rental rates are also shown, as determined through interviews with each complex. For units with rents
  within a range, the average rent is given.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                      Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Table 14: Multi-Family Rental Complexes in Draper
                                                                                   # of
   Rental Complexes                                         Address                        Square Feet      Rent Avg.
                                                                                  Units
   Apartments
   Allegro at Corner Canyon                      292 W Galena Park Blvd            258
      Plan A - 1 Bed/1 Bath                                                         30             609        $1,400
      Plan B - 1 Bed/1 Bath                                                        112            773+        $1,400
      Plan C - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                         92           1,095        $1,600
      Plan D - 3 Bed/2 Bath                                                         24           1,420        $1,910
   Adagio Apartments                             13343 S Minuteman Dr.             494
     Juniper - 1 Bed/1 Bath                                                        136             767        $1,300
     Aspen - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                          112          1,052+        $1,500
     Conifer - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                        148          1,052+        $1,500
     Cottonwood - 3 Bed/2 Bath                                                      96           1,215        $1,810
   The Heritage Draper                                 11715 S State St.           156
      Plan 1 - 1 Bed/1 Bath                                                         64             716        $1,418
      Plan 2A and 2B - 2 Bed/1 Bath                                                 40             867        $1,500
      Plan 2C - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                        36             917        $1,689
      Plan 3 - 3 Bed/2 Bath                                                         12           1,103        $1,900
   Triton Terrace                                     14527 S Travel Dr.           177
      Trophy/Triton - 1 Bed/1Bath                                                   84             790        $1,600
     Treasure 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                          42                        $1,645
     Terrace - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                         42           1,010        $2,100
     Triumph - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                          5           1,180        $2,000
     Tribune - 3 Bed/2.5 Bath                                                        4           1,965        $2,500
   The Parc at Day Dairy                              449 E Tilden Parc Ln         248
     1x1 - 1 Bed/1 Bath                                                             36             746        $1,654
      2x2 - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                             60          1,057        $1,830
      2x2 Townhome - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                    44          1,182        $2,371
      2x2.5 Townhome - 2 Bed/2.5 Bath                                                44          1,182        $2,383
      2X2.5 3-Story Townhome                                                         10          1,482        $2,482
      3x2.5 Townhome - 3 Bed/2.5 Bath                                                44          1,439        $2,647
      3x2.5 3-Story Townhome                                                         10          1,672        $3,417
   Liberty Hill Apartments                             74 E Birch Hill Ln          246
      Firefly - 1 Bed/1 Bath                                                        54             777        $1,635
      Larkspur - 2 Bed/2.5 Bath                                                    108           1,010        $1,796
      Wintercress - 2 Bed/2.5 Bath                                                  42           1,030        $1,919
      Allysum - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                         6             982        $1,800
      Bluebell - 3 Bed/2.5 Bath                                                     36           1,157        $2,197
   Draper Village                               12092 S Draper Crest Ln.           181
     Madison - 1 Bed/1 Bath                                                         48        791 -900        $1,699
     Bibury - 2 Bed/1 Bath                                                          18              935       $1,738
     Burano - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                          73    1,105 - 1,168       $1,989


                                                                                                                    8
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                   Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study


  Table 14: Multi-Family Rental Complexes in Draper (Continued)
                                                                                # of
   Rental Complexes                                      Address                        Square Feet      Rent Avg.
                                                                               Units
      Halstat - 3 Bed/2 Bath                                                     27     1,338 -1460        $2,199
      Positano - 3 Bed/2.5 Bath                                                    4          1,585        $2,709
     Savoca - 3 Bed/2.5 Bath                                                      8           1,600        $2,973
   Parc West Apartments                              461 W. 13490 S.            249
     A1 - 1 Bed/1 Bath                                                           93             743        $1,587
     A2 - 1 Bed/1 Bath                                                           48             754        $1,637
     B1 - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                           78           1,116        $1,799
     B2 - 2 Bed/2 Bath                                                           17           1,252        $1,975
     C1 - 3 Bed/2 Bath                                                            13          1,447        $2,492
   Diamond Ridge                                 12137 S. Opal Meadows            57
     Arrowhead Middle Unit - 3 Bed/2 Bath                                         11           1,455       $2,200
     Arrowhead End Unit - 3 Bed/2 Bath                                             6           1,463       $2,250
     Yellowstone - 3 Bed/2 Bath                                                   27   1,339 - 1,896       $2,400
     Timberline - 3 Bed/2 Bath                                                    13   1,449 - 1,999       $2,500
   The Seasons at Southpoint                      166 East Highland Dr.         120
     Unit 1-1 (1B 1Ba)                                                           12             699        $1,325
     Unit 1-2 (1B 1Ba)                                                           12             755        $1,400
     Unit 1-3 (1B 1Ba)                                                           12             821        $1,425
     Unit 1-4 (1B 1Ba)                                                           12             827        $1,450
     Unit 1-5 (1B 1Ba)                                                           12             895        $1,500
     Unit 2-1 (2B 2Ba)                                                           12           1,065        $1,585
     Unit 2-2 (2B 2Ba)                                                           12           1,113        $1,600
     Unit 2-3 (2B 2Ba)                                                           12           1,138        $1,625
     Unit 2-4 (2B 2Ba)                                                           12           1,181        $1,625
     Unit 2-5 (2B 2Ba)                                                           12           1,373        $1,670
   Point of View Apartments                         275 E Highland Dr           328
      Pinnacle (1B 1Ba)                                                           76            690        $1,580
      Horizon (1B 1Ba)                                                            64            690        $1,580
      Vision (1B 1Ba)                                                             28            720        $1,545
      Eclipse (1B 1Ba)                                                            16            720        $1,600
      Equinox (1B 1Ba)                                                            20            781        $1,675
      Solstice (1B 1Ba)                                                            8          1,023        $1,795
     Panorama (2B 2Ba)                                                           78             989        $1,895
     Summit (2B 2Ba)                                                             18           1,078        $2,060
     Grandeur (2B 2Ba)                                                           20           1,084        $1,955
   Residences at Vista Station                 13108 S Vista Station Blvd.      308
     The App (1B 1 Ba)                                                           32             560        $1,249
     The Byte (1B 1 Ba)                                                          30             660        $1,439
      The Cache (1B 1 Ba)                                                         30            663        $1,489
      The Cloud (1B 1 Ba)                                                         30            748        $1,469
      The Code (1B 1 Ba)                                                          30            709        $1,529


                                                                                                                 9
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                     Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study


  Table 14: Multi-Family Rental Complexes in Draper (Continued)
                                                                                   # of
   Rental Complexes                                        Address                           Square Feet     Rent Avg.
                                                                                  Units
      The Content (1B 1 Ba)                                                         30              769        $1,529
      The Data (2B 2B)                                                              37            1,026        $1,699
     The Dev (2B 2B)                                                                37            1,033        $1,799
     The Eclipse (2B 2B)                                                            37            1,097        $1,909
     The Que (3B 2B)                                                                 5            1,437        $2,389
     The Switch (3B 2B)                                                              5            1,484        $2,409
     The Vector (3B 2B)                                                              5            1,509        $2,199
   Anthology Lofts 277/Vista Station 9               277 W 13490 S                 240
      Fitzgerald (Studio)                                                           24              603        $1,540
      Salinger (1B 1Ba)                                                             24              700        $1,577
      Dickinson (2B 2Ba)                                                            42            1,044        $1,815
      Hemingway (2B 2Ba)                                                            42            1,156        $1,891
      Plath (2B 2Ba)                                                                42            1,130        $2,276
      London (2B 2Ba)                                                               42            1,136        $1,834
     Twain (3 B 3Ba)                                                                24            1,130        $2,194
   Veranda West                                      490 W 13490 S                 239
     A3 (1B 1Ba)                                                                    35              615        $1,052
     A1 (1B 1Ba)                                                                    34              712        $1,124
     A2 (1B 1Ba)                                                                    34              745        $1,124
     B1 (2B 2Ba)                                                                    34            1,101        $1,344
     B2 (2B 2Ba)                                                                    34            1,160        $1,344
     C1 (3B 2Ba)                                                                    34            1,367        $1,547
     C2 (3B 2Ba)                                                                    34            1,381        $1,547
   Brown Construction                                 12370 S 800 E                  4                     Unavailable
   Draper Ridge                                       930 E 12300 S                 16                     Unavailable
   Burnham Downs                                      12320 S 900 E                  4                     Unavailable
   Loridee Back                                      12063 S 700 E                    3                    Unavailable
   Draindee Front                                    719 E 12100 S                    3                    Unavailable
   Draper Dream                                      12499 S 900 E                    6                    Unavailable
   Other (unnamed)                                  1420 E 13200 S                    3                    Unavailable
   Other (unnamed)                               12825 S Minuteman Dr.                3                    Unavailable

  Using a housing allowance calculator, table 15 below shows how all housing unit types in Draper match
  against current income category ranges. The largest proportion of housing in the City is affordable to those
  households with incomes of $150,000 or more per year. Rental units are also included in the count of
  properties in each value range.

  Table 15: Number of Households by Income Category with Number of Affordable Units in Draper
                              # of Households in Income     Affordable Home Price         # of Properties in Value
   Income Category
                                                   Range     Range (4% Mortgage)                            Range
   $0 to $14,999                                    232                      $0 - $15, 184                           -
   $15,000 to $24,999                                 96               $15,184 - $65,796                             -


                                                                                                                    10
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                     Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Table 15: Number of Households by Income Category with Number of Affordable Units in Draper (Continued)
                              # of Households in Income     Affordable Home Price          # of Properties in Value
   Income Category
                                                   Range     Range (4% Mortgage)                             Range
   $25,000 to $34,999                                116       $65,796 - $116,408                                 -
      $35,000 to $49,999                                   709       $116,408 - $192, 327                              5
      $50,000 to $74,999                                 1,034       $192,327 - $318,857                             167
      $75,000 to $99,999                                 1,492       $318,857 - $445,388                           1,846
      $100,000 to $149,999                               2,390       $445,388 - $698,444                           5,356
      $150,000 or more                                   1,452          $698,444 or more                           5,649
  Source: ACS 2020 Data

  Draper currently has no multi-family units with rental rates affordable to those below the 30 percent of
  AMI income level. The table shows the number of multi-family rental units available within the affordable
  rental rate for each income category, assuming $300 is needed for utilities.

  Table 16: Number of Multi-Family Units by Income Range in Draper
      Household Income                                    Estimated Number                                # of Affordable
                                      Income Range                                    Affordable Rent
      Level                                                   of Households                                    MFR Units
      50% to 80% of AMI          $46,100 - $73,750                   2,311              $852- $1,544               2,417
      30% to 50% of AMI          $27,650 - $46,100                   1,079               $391- $852                  103
      < 30% of AMI                        < $27,650                  1,070                 $0 - $391                   0



  Summary of Affordability and Number of Additional Units Needed
  Table 17 shows the estimated number of units in Draper at each affordability threshold of all housing types
  – SFR, Condo, Duplex and Apartments – and how those units match up with current demand of households
  within the City. There is a cumulative total of 2,662 units within the affordable thresholds and a cumulative
  total of 4,459 low- to moderate-income households, creating a shortage of 1,797 housing units in Draper
  for those making less than 80 percent of AMI. 3

  Table 17: Draper Housing Units Affordable and Available by Income Threshold
                                                   Percentage of        Estimated         Percentage of
      Affordability          Housing Units        Units Available      Number of          Households at          Current
      Threshold                  Available        at Each Income    Households at          Each Income          Shortage
                                                            Level    Income Level                 Level
      80% of AMI                      2,557              15.90%               2,310             14.33%             (247)
      50% of AMI                        105               0.65%               1,079              6.69%               974
      30% of AMI                              0           0.00%               1,070              6.64%             1,070
      Cumulative Totals               2,662              16.51%               4,459             27.66%             1,797




  3
   The "percentage of units available at each income level" shows the percentage of available units compared to the
  total number of households in Draper. The "percentage of households at each income level" shows the number of
  households in each AMI threshold compared to the total number of households in Draper.


                                                                                                                       11
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Projected Affordable Housing Need
  Draper currently has a shortage of 1,797 housing units that are affordable to those making less than 80%
  AMI. With expected growth over the next 5 years in the City, there will be an increased need of affordable
  housing units. Table 19 below shows the 5-year projection for number of total households compared to
  the projected total number of low to moderate-income households in Draper. The difference in these
  numbers indicates a projected need of 2,269 additional affordable low to moderate income housing units
  in the City by 2027.

  Table 18: Draper 5-Year Projection for Number of Housing Units Needed
                                                                                             Projected Shortage of
                                                                Projected Total Low to
                                              Projected Total                            Units affordable to Low to
   Year                                                             Moderate-Income
                                                 Households                                      Moderate-Income
                                                                           Households
                                                                                                       Households
   2022                                               16,121                    4,459                        1,797
   2023                                               16,449                    4,550                        1,888
   2024                                               16,783                    4,643                        1,981
   2025                                               17,124                    4,737                        2,075
   2026                                               17,472                    4,833                        2,171
   2027                                               17,827                    4,931                        2,269




                                                                                                                 12
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Appendix A – County Proportionate Share
  If Salt Lake County’s income distributions were applied to the current number of Draper households, the
  demand for housing units would change. The table below explores this would-be distribution, as well as
  how the current affordable units compare to that hypothesized figure. According to this distribution, the
  City is short affordable units for all low- and moderate-income households. As can be seen in table A-1
  below, Draper is in need of an additional 5,107 total units affordable for low to medium income households
  to meet its “fair share” in Salt Lake County, with most of these units needed in the < 30% of AMI and 30%
  to 50% of AMI thresholds. As of right now, there are no affordable units for those in the < 30% of AMI
  income threshold and only 105 units in the 30% to 50% of AMI threshold.

  Table A-1: Summary of Affordable Households and Units by Targeted Income Groups
                                        50% to 80% of AMI   30% to 50% of AMI          < 30% of AMI    Total
   Income Level                                  $73,750             $46,100               $27,650
   Maximum Housing Price
                                                $312,531            $172,588               $79,208
   (4% Mortgage)
   Salt Lake County HH's                          79,390              50,463                52,123
   % of All HHs in Salt Lake
                                                  20.71%              13.16%                13.60%
   County
   Draper Proportionate Ratio
   Based on Salt Lake County                       3,390               2,155                 2,225       7,769
   Income Distribution
   Draper Actual HH's                              2,311               1,079                 1,070       4,459
   Difference Between Salt
   Lake County Proportion                          1,079               1,076                 1,156       3,310
   and Draper Actual HHs
   Total Affordable Units in
                                                   2,557                 105                      0      2,662
   Draper
   Additional Units Needed to
   Meet Salt Lake County                             833               2,050                  2,225      5,107
   Proportions

  Of note, Draper City does commit CDBG funds together with other cities and Salt Lake County for use on a
  more regional basis, some of which include, or may include in the future, the provision of housing units
  that are affordable to the target income groups, but that are often built in other jurisdictions. The
  number of units created through the use of these funds is not known, nor the proportional share of these
  units that could be reasonably be attributed to the assistance provided through Draper City. This amount,
  if able to be determined, would hypothetically reduce the total number of additional units needed to
  meet the proportional share of units in table A-1.




                                                                                                               13
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                  Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Appendix B – Number of Rental and Group Complexes in Draper
  Complexes that are centrally rented or leased from a single property management company are detailed
  in the tables below, along with group homes, senior housing and the City’s other apartment and multi-
  family rental complexes.

  Table B-1: Rental Complexes in Draper
   Rental Complexes (3+ Units)                Address                                            Units in Complex
   Apartments
   Allegro at Corner Canyon                   292 W. Galena Park Blvd.                                          258
   Adagio Apartments                          13343 S. Minuteman Dr.                                            494
   The Heritage Draper                        11715 S. State St.                                                156
   Triton Terrace                             14527 S. Travel Dr.                                               177
   The Parc at Day Diary                      449 E Tilden Parc Ln.                                             248
   Liberty Hills Apartments                   74 E Birch Hill Ln.                                               246
   Draper Village                             12092 South Draper Crest Ln                                       181
   Parc West                                  461 W. 13490 S.                                                   249
   Diamond Ridge                              12137 S. Opal Meadows Pl.                                          57
   The Seasons at Southpoint                  166 East Highland Dr.                                             120
   Point of View Apartments                   275 E Highland Dr                                                 328
   Residences at Vista Station                13108 S Vista Station Blvd.                                       308
   Anthology Lofts                            277 W 13490 S                                                     240
   Veranda West                               490 W 13490 S                                                     239
   Brown Construction                         12370 S. 800 E.                                                     4
   Draper Ridge                               930 E 12300 S                                                      16
   Burnham Downs                              12320 S 900 E                                                       4
   Loridee Back                               12063 S 700 E                                                       3
   Draindee Front                             719 E 12100 S                                                       3
   Draper Dream                               12499 S 900 E                                                       6
   Other (unnamed)                            1420 E 13200 S                                                      3
   Other (unnamed)                            12825 S Minuteman Dr.                                               3
   Mobile Home
   Mountain Shadows RV Park                   13275 S Minuteman Dr.                                             179
   Total                                                                                                   3,343




                                                                                                                 14
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
                                                                    Draper City | Moderate Income Housing Study



  Table B-2: Group Complexes in Draper
                                                                                                 Number of Beds in
   Group Homes                        Address             Type
                                                                                                        Complex
   Sober Living Draper                12736 S 300 E       Residential Treatment – Adult                           21
                                      12595 S             Comm./Res. Treatment and Secure
   Youth Care Inc                                                                                                  64
                                      Minuteman Dr        Care - Youth
   Gateway Academy                    11706 S 700 E       Residential Treatment - Youth                            32
   Gateway Academy                    941 E Cattail Dr    Residential Treatment - Youth                             8
   Deer Hollow Recovery               1481 E Pioneer Rd   Residential Treatment - Adult                            15
                                      13603 S Bridle
   Deer Hollow Sober Living 1                             Residential Treatment - Adult                             8
                                      Trail Cir
   Deer Hollow Sandhill House         765 E 12000 S       Residential Treatment – Adult                            12
   Northwest Charities                789 W 12300 S       Residential Treatment - Adult                             8
   Annie's House                      1601 E 13200 S      Residential - Disability                                 15
   Healing Science Retreat            12231 S 1950 E      Residential - Social Detox                                6
   Senior Housing
   Beehive Homes of Draper            711 E Pioneer Rd    Assisted Living                                          35
                                      14075 S
   Rosegate                                               Active Living Apartments                                277
                                      Bangerter Pkwy
   Wentworth at Draper                11637 S 700 E       Assisted Living                                          92
                                      217 E Scenic Peak
   Draper Assisted Care, LLC                              Residential Assisted Living                              13
                                      Cv
   Victoria Woods                     647 E 12225 S       Active Living Apartments                                 42
   Draper Rehabilitation and
                                      12702 S Fort St     Assisted Living and Rehab                                92
   Care Center
   Total                                                                                                          740




                                                                                                                   15
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | September 2022
APPENDIX B
Draper Master Transportation Plan
Draper City Master Transportation Plan
NOVEMBER 2019
Master Transportation Plan




Prepared for

Draper City
1020 E Pioneer Road
(12400 South)
Draper, UT 84020




Prepared by

Parametrix
4179 Riverboat Road, Suite 130
Salt Lake City, UT 84123
T. 801.307.3400 F. 1.855.542.6353
www.parametrix.com
                                                                                                                          Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                                                                  Draper City




TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.      INTRODUCTION ..................................................................................................................1-1
1.1     Background ................................................................................................................................... 1-1
1.2     Purpose of this Plan ...................................................................................................................... 1-1
1.3     Draper City Vision ......................................................................................................................... 1-2
1.4     Citizen Transportation Committee ............................................................................................... 1-3

2.      EXISTING CONDITIONS ........................................................................................................2-1
2.1     Introduction .................................................................................................................................. 2-1
2.2     Demographics ............................................................................................................................... 2-1
        2.2.1   Employment ................................................................................................................. 2-4
2.3     Peer City Comparisons .................................................................................................................. 2-9
2.4     Existing Land Use ........................................................................................................................ 2-11
        2.4.1      Traffic Analysis Zones (TAZ) ........................................................................................ 2-13
2.5     Alternative Travel Modes............................................................................................................ 2-15
        2.5.1     Transit ......................................................................................................................... 2-15
        2.5.2     Pedestrian and Bicycle ................................................................................................ 2-17
2.6     Safety .......................................................................................................................................... 2-18
        2.6.1       Crash Data Analysis..................................................................................................... 2-18
        2.6.2       Crash Severity ............................................................................................................. 2-20
        2.6.3       Bicycle and Pedestrian Data ....................................................................................... 2-21
2.7     Connectivity ................................................................................................................................ 2-22
        2.7.1    Regional Scale ............................................................................................................. 2-22
        2.7.2    Community Scale ........................................................................................................ 2-24
        2.7.3    Transit Stations ........................................................................................................... 2-26

3.      FUTURE CONDITIONS ..........................................................................................................3-1
3.1     Future Land Use ............................................................................................................................ 3-1
        3.1.1     Draper City General Plan .............................................................................................. 3-3
        3.1.2     Development Scenario ................................................................................................. 3-5
3.2     Regional Plans ............................................................................................................................... 3-8
        3.2.1     Wasatch Front Regional Council Long Range Transportation Plan .............................. 3-8
        3.2.2     Utah Department of Transportation Plans ................................................................. 3-11
3.3     Level of Service Evaluation ......................................................................................................... 3-11
        3.3.1     Existing Level of Service .............................................................................................. 3-12
        3.3.2     Future Level of Service ............................................................................................... 3-13
3.4     Functional Classification ............................................................................................................. 3-18
        3.4.1    On-street Parking........................................................................................................ 3-19



November 2019                                                                                                                                                i
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
3.5           Future Alternative Travel Modes ................................................................................................ 3-20
              3.5.1     Transit ......................................................................................................................... 3-20
              3.5.2     Walkability .................................................................................................................. 3-20
              3.5.3     Pedestrian and Bicycle ................................................................................................ 3-21
              3.5.4     Autonomous Vehicles ................................................................................................. 3-23

4.            RECOMMENDATIONS..........................................................................................................4-1
4.1           Street Standards ........................................................................................................................... 4-1
              4.1.1     Clear Zones ................................................................................................................... 4-1
              4.1.2     Local Streets – 60 Feet.................................................................................................. 4-1
              4.1.3     Minor Collectors – 66 Feet ........................................................................................... 4-2
              4.1.4     Major Collectors – 74 Feet ........................................................................................... 4-5
              4.1.5     Minor Arterials – 80 Feet and 100 Feet ........................................................................ 4-7
              4.1.6     Arterials ........................................................................................................................ 4-8
4.2           Access Management ................................................................................................................... 4-11
4.3           Traffic Calming ............................................................................................................................ 4-15
              4.3.1      Traffic Calming Alternatives ....................................................................................... 4-15
              4.3.2      Traffic Calming Tools .................................................................................................. 4-16
              4.3.3      Traffic Calming Device Implementation Process ........................................................ 4-19
              4.3.4      Traffic Calming Considerations ................................................................................... 4-19
4.4           Transit ......................................................................................................................................... 4-20
              4.4.1       Commuter Rail ............................................................................................................ 4-20
              4.4.2       Light Rail ..................................................................................................................... 4-20
              4.4.3       Bus Routes .................................................................................................................. 4-21
4.5           Pedestrian/Bicycle ...................................................................................................................... 4-21
4.6           Crosswalks................................................................................................................................... 4-24
              4.6.1    Crosswalk Treatments ................................................................................................ 4-25
              4.6.2    Considerations for Crosswalks at Uncontrolled Locations ......................................... 4-26
              4.6.3    Additional Resources .................................................................................................. 4-26
4.7           Truck Routes ............................................................................................................................... 4-26
4.8           Connectivity ................................................................................................................................ 4-28

5.            CAPITAL FACILITIES PLAN ....................................................................................................5-1
5.1           Capital Facilities Plan .................................................................................................................... 5-1

6.            AREAS OF CONCERN............................................................................................................6-1
6.1           Incorporate Existing Area Plans into the Master Transportation Plan ......................................... 6-1
              6.1.1    Draperville and Downtown........................................................................................... 6-1
              6.1.2    Highland Drive and Traverse Ridge Road ..................................................................... 6-1



ii                                                                                                                                               November 2019
                                                                                                                     Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                                                           Draper City




TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
6.2        Signals, Roundabouts and Special Intersections........................................................................... 6-1
           6.2.1      Roundabouts ................................................................................................................ 6-2
           6.2.2      Special Intersections ..................................................................................................... 6-3

LIST OF FIGURES
2-1     Draper City Population and Annualized Growth Rate 1980-2016 ................................................ 2-2
2-2     Draper City Population Distribution by Age and Sex .................................................................... 2-3
2-3     Draper City Households ................................................................................................................ 2-4
2-4     Total Jobs in Draper City ............................................................................................................... 2-4
2-5     Work Trips To, From, and Within Draper City in 2015 ................................................................. 2-5
2-6     Work Trips To, From, and Within Draper City 2002 to 2015 ........................................................ 2-6
2-7     Draper City Jobs by NAICS Industry Sector ................................................................................... 2-7
2-8     Means of Transportation to Work ................................................................................................ 2-8
2-9     Travel Time to Work ..................................................................................................................... 2-8
2-10 Draper City Peer City Population Change ..................................................................................... 2-9
2-11 Draper City Peer City Annualized Growth Rate 2010-2016 ........................................................ 2-10
2-12 Peer City Drive Alone versus Carpool Comparison ..................................................................... 2-10
2-13 Peer City Percent Traveling to Work by Alternative Mode ........................................................ 2-11
2-14 Existing Zoning ............................................................................................................................ 2-12
2-15 Draper City TAZ Boundaries and Total Households .................................................................... 2-13
2-16 Draper City TAZ Boundaries and Total Jobs ................................................................................ 2-14
2-17 Existing Transit Service ............................................................................................................... 2-16
2-18 Existing Bicycle Facilities and Trails............................................................................................. 2-17
2-19 Draper City Surface Street Crash Concentration ........................................................................ 2-18
2-20 Draper City Crash Severity Map (2015-2017) ............................................................................. 2-20
2-21 Draper City Bicycle and Pedestrian Crash Map (2015-2017) ...................................................... 2-21
2-22 Draper City Regional-Scale Connectivity..................................................................................... 2-23
2-23 Draper City Community-Scale Connectivity ................................................................................ 2-25
2-24 Examples of High and Low Connectivity at Transit Stations ....................................................... 2-26
2-25 Draper City Transit Station Walksheds ....................................................................................... 2-27
3-1     Draper City Future Land Use ......................................................................................................... 3-2
3-2     Point of the Mountain Commission Preferred Scenario Land Use Concept................................. 3-4
3-3     Household, Population, Employment Forecast ............................................................................ 3-5
3-4     Land Use and Corresponding Trip Rates for Development Scenario............................................ 3-5
3-5     Development Phase I .................................................................................................................... 3-6
3-6     Development Phase II ................................................................................................................... 3-6
3-7     Development Phase III .................................................................................................................. 3-7
3-8     Development Phase IV .................................................................................................................. 3-7

November 2019                                                                                                                                       iii
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
LIST OF FIGURES (CONTINUED)
3-9     WFRC RTP Projects by Phase ........................................................................................................ 3-9
3-10 2014 Level of Service .................................................................................................................. 3-12
3-11 Scenario 1 Level of Service – 2040 No Build, Typical Development ........................................... 3-14
3-12 Scenario 2 Level of Service – 2040 No Build, Vision Development............................................. 3-15
3-13 Scenario 3 Level of Service – 2040 Build, Typical Development................................................. 3-16
3-14 Scenario 4 Level of Service– 2040 Build, Vision Development ................................................... 3-17
3-15 Functional Classification of Streets ............................................................................................. 3-18
3-16 Pedestrian Facilities Plan ............................................................................................................ 3-22
3-17 SAE International’s Level of Driving Automation for On-Road Vehicles..................................... 3-23
4-1     Cross Section, Valley Local Street ................................................................................................. 4-2
4-2     Cross Section, Mountain Local Street ........................................................................................... 4-2
4-3     Planned Minor Collectors ............................................................................................................. 4-3
4-4     Cross Section, Commercial Minor Collector ................................................................................. 4-4
4-5     Cross Section, Residential Minor Collector ................................................................................... 4-4
4-6     Cross Section, Major Collector ...................................................................................................... 4-5
4-7     Planned Major Collectors.............................................................................................................. 4-6
4-8     Planned Minor Arterials ................................................................................................................ 4-7
4-9     Cross Section, Minor Arterial (Four Lane)..................................................................................... 4-8
4-10 Cross Section, Minor Arterial (Five Lane)...................................................................................... 4-8
4-11 Planned Arterials........................................................................................................................... 4-9
4-12 Cross Section, Arterial ................................................................................................................. 4-10
4-13 Cross Section, Highland Drive Arterial A ..................................................................................... 4-10
4-14 Cross Section, Highland Drive Arterial B ..................................................................................... 4-10
4-15 Full Functional Classification System .......................................................................................... 4-11
4-16 Access Management Spacing...................................................................................................... 4-14
4-17 Traffic Calming, Crosswalk Striping ............................................................................................. 4-16
4-18 Traffic Calming, Raised Crosswalk............................................................................................... 4-17
4-19 Traffic Calming, Bulb Outs........................................................................................................... 4-18
4-20 Master Transportation Plan, Bike Component ........................................................................... 4-24
4-21 Truck Routes ............................................................................................................................... 4-27
5-1     Improvements by Phase ............................................................................................................... 5-2
6-1     Current and Future Controlled Intersections ............................................................................... 6-2

LIST OF TABLES
2-1     Draper City Peer Cities .................................................................................................................. 2-9
2-2     Draper City Analysis of Intersections with Highest Number of Crashes ..................................... 2-19
2-3     Draper City Transit Station Walkshed Analysis ........................................................................... 2-27


iv                                                                                                                                   November 2019
                                                                                                                 Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                                                       Draper City




TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
LIST OF TABLES (CONTINUED)
3-1     WFRC RTP Highway Project Descriptions ................................................................................... 3-10
3-2     WFRC RTP Transit Project Descriptions ...................................................................................... 3-11
3-3     Scenario Development................................................................................................................ 3-13
3-4     Functional Classification General Characteristics ....................................................................... 3-19
4-1     Geometric Design of Driveway Approach Width ........................................................................ 4-12
4-2     Draper City Minimum Access Spacing Standards ....................................................................... 4-13
4-3     Sample of Pedestrian Crossing Treatments ................................................................................ 4-25
5-1     Improvements by Phase ............................................................................................................... 5-3

LIST OF APPENDICES
CFP Phase 1 Cost Estimates
CFP Phase 2 Cost Estimates
CFP Phase 3 cost Estimates
Safety Analysis




November 2019                                                                                                                                   v
                                                                   Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                    Draper City




KEY TERMS
AASHTO          American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
ACS             American Community Survey
BRT             bus rapid transit
CFP             Capital Facilities Plan
CTC             Citizen Transportation Committee
FrontRunner     commuter rail
HAWK            high-intensity activated crosswalk beacon
I-15            Interstate 15
ITE             Institute of Transportation Engineers
LEHD            Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics
LODES           LEHD Origin-Destination Employment Statistics
LOS             Level of Service
MTP             Master Transportation Plan
MUTCD           Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
NACTO           National Association of City Transportation Officials
NAICS           North American Industry Classification System
NCHRP           National Cooperative Highway Research Program
NHTSA           National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
OPM             Office of Personnel Management
QCEW            Quarterly Census for Employment and Wages
RTP             Regional Transportation Plan
SE              socioeconomic
TAZ             traffic analysis zone
TDM             Travel Demand Model
TRAX            light rail
UDOT            Utah Department of Transportation
UP              Union Pacific railroad
UTA             Utah Transit Authority
VMT             vehicle miles traveled
WFRC            Wasatch Front Regional Council
WFRC-MAG        Wasatch Front Regional Council-Mountainland Association of
                Governments


November 2019                                                                               vii
                                                                                       Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                        Draper City




1.              INTRODUCTION
1.1             Background
Draper City is located along the Wasatch
Front in southern Salt Lake County. Draper
City also includes part of Utah County known
as Traverse Ridge. Neighboring cities include
Alpine, Lehi and Highland to the south and
east, Sandy to the north, South Jordan and
Riverton to the west, and Bluffdale to the
southwest. To the east and northeast lie
foothills and mountains administered by the
United States Forest Service.
Draper City is divided by Interstate 15 (I-15)
running north-south through the city. Other
major north-south routes include 300 East,
700 East, 1300 East, and Highland Drive.
Major east-west routes include 11400 South,
12300 South, Bangerter Highway, Traverse                          Draper City hills looking west
Ridge Road, and 13800 South.
Transit service options available within Draper City include Utah Transit Authority’s (UTA) light rail TRAX
Blue Line and UTA’s FrontRunner commuter rail. UTA also provides Draper City with bus services and
routes located throughout the city. Draper City has an extensive pedestrian, bicycle and equestrian trail
plan that serves the city in a transportation capacity as well as in a recreational capacity.

1.2             Purpose of this Plan
The purpose of the Draper City Master Transportation Plan (MTP) is to create a transportation plan that
will help meet the transportation goals of the City and allow future development to enhance the
positive aspects of Draper City while minimizing any negative aspects. In the last few decades, Draper
City has seen significant population growth and consequently this growth has put increased pressure on
the City’s transportation system. This plan responds to the increased travel demand while retaining the
small-town character and feel of the city. As part of the City’s General Plan, the Master Transportation
Plan guides city government, staff and residents as future growth and needs are encountered. The
Master Transportation Plan should be viewed as a component of the Draper City General Plan. As such,
the Master Transportation Plan supplements, but does not replace various elements of the General Plan
such as aesthetic and streetscape standards which remain vital to the character and identity of Draper
City.
There are several reasons that precipitate the necessity of a Master Transportation Plan such as:
     •   The completion of several Capital Facilities Plan projects;
     •   Transportation challenges due to major changes within the city, such as the pending relocation
         of Utah State Prison and the future development of the former prison site;
     •   Anticipation of traffic impacts as a result of current and future developments;



November 2019                                                                                                  1-1
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



      •       The need to remain current with regional issues; and
      •       The need to identify and respond to known “hotspot” transportation areas.
This plan has been organized into six chapters which cover the components of the transportation plan.
Chapter 1 is an introduction, which covers Draper City goals, and includes a high-level view of
transportation issues and challenges. Chapter 2 reviews Draper City’s existing conditions and compares
Draper City to identified peer cities for comparisons. Chapter 3 reviews future transportation scenarios
that Draper City will likely encounter. Chapter 4 presents the Master Transportation Plan and makes
transportation implementation recommendations. Chapter 5 proposes funding and details a Capital
Facilities Plan. Chapter 6 addresses several specific areas of concern. In addition to these chapters, an
appendix has been provided to include supporting technical details.
The current road network has been studied to address the needs and concerns of Draper City. Road
cross sections and routes have been updated to reflect the needs of future traffic volumes, while still
maintaining the quality of life that Draper City citizens have come to know.
The utilization of all other existing commuter options, such as commuter rail, light rail, bus, pedestrian
facilities, and bicycle facilities was also studied to assess additional needs of Draper City citizens. The
accommodation and support of all forms of transportation is a key part of any successful transportation
plan.

1.3              Draper City Vision
Draper City is a city that has a small-town feel, is rich in rural heritage, and has the convenience of
metropolitan opportunities. Citizens of Draper City want to manage continuing growth within the city so
that they can maintain the high quality of life that they have grown accustomed to. An efficient and
well-performing transportation system is a major component of this vision, and the 2019 Draper City
Master Transportation Plan will outline necessary steps to satisfy these goals and objectives.




                                        300 East at 13700 South looking north




1-2                                                                                             November 2019
                                                                                        Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                          Draper City



Draper City Goals and Objectives
 Mission Statement
 Draper City is a community that preserves its unique identity and heritage and provides protection
 and services for its citizens.
 Values
      •   Unity
               Neighbors work together to build a strong community.
      •   Respect
               Citizens have tolerance, understanding and sensitivity to one another’s differences.
      •   Quality of Life
               Citizens of all ages feel safe, have places to gather, and enjoy traditions, events and
                culture.
      •   Environment
               Draper City is clean, pleasant, pastoral, has a small-town feeling and sense of identity.
      •   Pride
               Citizens are proud to call Draper City “home,” and are involved in community well-being.
                                                                   Adopted by Resolution No. 99-12, April 6, 1999


1.4             Citizen Transportation Committee
Draper City’s Citizen Transportation Committee (CTC) was organized in 2007 to assist with the creation
of the 2007 Master Transportation Plan. The committee was tasked with identifying transportation
concerns within Draper City, and with the development of objectives and goals to address these issues.
These goals are carried forward into the 2019 Master Transportation Plan.




                               1300 East, Pioneer Road (12400 South) Roundabout



November 2019                                                                                                    1-3
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



Citizen Transportation Committee Goals
Goal Number 1: Draper City shall create an inter-connected street system.
Objective
      •       The inter-connected street system shall:
               Enhance connectivity.

               Coordinate with adjacent communities.

               Provide a grid of alternative routes.

               Serve to disperse traffic.

Goal Number 2: Draper City shall provide multi-modal transportation opportunities.
Objective
      •       The multi-modal transportation system
              shall include:
               Tying into the regional transit
                  system of TRAX and commuter rail.
               Providing a regional example of
                  successful bicycle opportunities.
               Creating a more walkable city.

               Providing an interconnected
                  system of trails for regional activity
                  centers.
Goal Number 3: Draper City shall provide a
transportation system which compliments land                       Residential street in Draper City
uses in the City.
Objective
      •       Complimenting land uses includes:
               Providing street cross sections which vary by adjacent land use.

               Providing street cross sections which maintain and enhance the character of historic areas.

Goal Number 4: Draper City shall create a transportation system for the future.
Objective
      •       Creating a transportation system for the future means:
               Providing a network for all modes of travel.

               Considering options for future generations and future transportation demands.

Considering funding in the development of plans.




1-4                                                                                                    November 2019
                                                                                     Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                      Draper City




2.              EXISTING CONDITIONS
2.1             Introduction
The existing conditions assessment is the foundation for the development a transportation plan. This
chapter examines the demographic profile of Draper City and its implications to the transportation plan.
A comparative analysis of peer cities is also included to provide insight to where Draper City sits among
its peers. And finally, existing transportation networks for all modes and existing land use in the city are
recorded.

2.2             Demographics
Draper City has experienced tremendous growth over the last two and a half decades, see Figure 2-1.
The largest population growth occurred between 1990 and 2000 with an average annual growth rate of
approximately 13 percent, adding about 18,000 new residents during the decade. The following decade,
2000 to 2010, Draper City grew and average of five percent annually, adding approximately 17,000 new
residents in the decade.
Draper City continues to grow today, although with a lower growth rate, which may reflect the supply of
developable land decreasing. The change between 2010 and 2016, which is the most recent data
available, was approximately two percent. Draper City grew by approximately 4,000 residents during
this period.




                               Draper City Hall on Pioneer Road (12400 South)




November 2019                                                                                                2-1
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




  50,000                                                                                                 20%
  45,000                                                                                                 18%
  40,000                                                                                                 16%
  35,000                                                                                                 14%
  30,000                                                                                                 12%
  25,000                                                                                                 10%
  20,000                                                                                                 8%
  15,000                                                                                                 6%
  10,000                                                                                                 4%
      5,000                                                                                              2%
         -                                                                                               0%
              1980    1985       1990       1995        2000       2005         2010      2015       2020

                                          Population       Annual Growth Rate


                                Figure 2-1. Draper City Population and Annualized Growth Rate 1980-2016
        Source: 1980 – 2010 United States Decennial Census, American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate 2012-2016

The Draper City population pyramid illustrates a common Utah trend: a relatively high number of
children compared to rest of the population, except for children under 10 years old, see Figure 2-2. Age
groups between 35 years old and 49 years old are also disproportionally higher than other groups. The
Draper City population pyramid also suggests a recent slowing or decreasing birthrate. It is also possible
that new households from immigration are households with fewer young children.
The age distribution of a population is important to a transportation plan because of the variation in
mobility needs for different age groups. For example, children are inherently dependent on others for
mobility. Similarly, older population groups become more dependent on others for mobility in a car-
oriented community as the ability to drive safely diminishes.
For Draper City, the long-term shift to an aging population means the need to address mobility
constraints for residents will grow. Strategies may include changing building patterns or promoting
other transportation modes. Providing alternatives to single occupant vehicles will improve mobility in
addition to reducing single-occupant vehicle miles traveled (VMT).




2-2                                                                                               November 2019
                                                                                     Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                      Draper City




 85 years and over
     80 to 84 years
     75 to 79 years
     70 to 74 years
     65 to 69 years
     60 to 64 years
     55 to 59 years
     50 to 54 years
     45 to 49 years
     40 to 44 years
     35 to 39 years
     30 to 34 years
     25 to 29 years
     20 to 24 years
     15 to 19 years
     10 to 14 years
       5 to 9 years
     Under 5 years

                      6        4             2                 0              2           4                6
                                                      % Male       % Female
                                                      51.5%        48.5%


                                         Figure 2-2. Draper City Population Distribution by Age and Sex
                                                 Source: American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate 2012-2016

While population demographics are important components to a city transportation plan, household and
housing data depict a clearer picture of potential impacts to the transportation system as not all
residents are drivers. Trip generation is predicted based on the number and size of households for traffic
modeling purposes.
There were approximately 14,500 households in Draper City (ACS 2012-2016). These households are
comprised of approximately 11,000 family households, which include married-couple and non-married
couple families, 2,000 nonfamily households, and 1,500 other family households with either a male or
female head of household, see Figure 2-3. The average number of persons per household was 3.2.




November 2019                                                                                                  2-3
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                                                                       Other Family
                                     Family Households                    1,625
                                           11,084




                                                                        Nonfamily Households
                                                                               1,854




                                                                     Figure 2-3. Draper City Households
                                              Source: American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate 2012-2016

2.2.1         Employment
Data for Draper City employment are derived from Unemployment Insurance Wage Records, Office of
Personnel Management (OPM), and the Quarterly Census for Employment and Wages (QCEW). Data are
consolidated in Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics (LEHD) Origin-Destination Employment
Statistics (LODES), a product of the United States Census.
There were approximately 29,500 jobs in Draper City as of 2015, the most recent year of data
availability. This is an increase of approximately 9,000 jobs from 2010, see Figure 2-4.

                                  35,000
                                                         29,653
                                  30,000

                                  25,000
                                           20,920
                                  20,000

                                  15,000

                                  10,000

                                   5,000

                                       0
                                           2010          2015


                                                                    Figure 2-4. Total Jobs in Draper City
                                                                              Source: LEHD Statistics, 2016



2-4                                                                                            November 2019
                                                                                      Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                       Draper City



Approximately 2,500 of the jobs in Draper City were held by residents of Draper City. Approximately
27,000 jobs were held by workers commuting into the city. Approximately 17,500 Draper City residents
hold jobs outside the city, see Figure 2-5. Note that this figure depicts the general commuter travel to,
from or within the city but does not indicate actual direction of movement.




                                         Figure 2-5. Work Trips To, From, and Within Draper City in 2015
                                                                     Source: LODES Employment Statistics, 2016

Though traditionally thought of as a bedroom community, overall, Draper City imports more workers daily
than it exports to other cities. This pattern is historically consistent looking back to 2002, see Figure 2-6.
Draper City job net inflow is about 10,000 workers. This may be related to the increased commercial and
retail space in Draper City in the past two decades. Major commercial developments have arisen along
12300 South, Bangerter Highway, and near the Frontrunner station.
While existing employment conditions and worker origin is not directly reflective of the health of place,
the regional transportation system is burdened as greater volumes of people commute to jobs farther
from their homes. This, in effect, places an increased burden on the Draper City transportation network.
The high rate of worker inflow may mean that transit or other modes of transportation could effectively
provide mobility for a meaningful number of commuters in areas where jobs are concentrated. A
greater mode share of transit users among workers who commute would improve the quality of
commute for those workers in addition to potentially impacting roadway congestion. Effectively
providing transit for outflow workers is fiscally more challenging due to the low-density of residential
development in the city. Density is explored further in Section 2.4.




November 2019                                                                                                 2-5
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




 30,000


 25,000


 20,000


 15,000


 10,000


   5,000


        0
              2002           2004     2006           2008              2010        2012         2014

                                       Employed in the Draper but Living Outside
                                       Living in Draper but Employed Outside
                                       Employed and Living in Draper


                                    Figure 2-6. Work Trips To, From, and Within Draper City 2002 to 2015
                                                               Source: LODES Employment Statistics, 2002 to 2016

Figure 2-7 shows Draper City job distribution based on the North American Industry Classification
System (NAICS) index. These jobs are those that were physically located within city limits. Recall that as
of 2015, about 12 percent of jobs in Draper City were held by residents of Draper City and that the city is
a net importer of workers. This may explain the high number of retail workers that surpass other
sectors. Retail workers are almost double the count of many other sectors.
Most industry sectors experienced strong increases from 2010 to 2015. Some of these sectors include
Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services; Finance and Insurance; Wholesale Trade; Manufacturing;
and Healthcare and Social Assistance. Industry sectors including management, mining, and agriculture
experienced smaller growth during the same period. Utilities was the single industry sector to see a
decline in workers from 2010 to 2015.




2-6                                                                                                November 2019
                                                                                                  Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                                   Draper City




                                Public Administration
     Other Services (excluding Public Administration)
                  Accommodation and Food Services
                 Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation
                    Health Care and Social Assistance
                                 Educational Services
 Administration & Support, Waste Management and…
         Management of Companies and Enterprises
       Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services
                  Real Estate and Rental and Leasing
                               Finance and Insurance
                                          Information
                    Transportation and Warehousing
                                          Retail Trade
                                     Wholesale Trade
                                       Manufacturing
                                         Construction
                                              Utilities
       Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction
           Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting

                                                          0          1,000    2,000   3,000   4,000      5,000     6,000

                                                              2010     2015


                                                                Figure 2-7. Draper City Jobs by NAICS Industry Sector
                                                                                              Source: LEHD Statistics, 2016

Data from the American Community Survey (ACS) provide typical work commute mode and length of
trip for Draper City residents. Figure 2-8 compares means of transportation to work for residents.
Approximately 76 percent of working Draper City residents drove alone to work, while 11 percent
worked at home, seven percent carpooled, three percent took transit, and two percent walked. Less
than one percent of Draper City residents rode a bicycle to work. A high percentage of single-occupant
vehicle trips to work is consistent with a growing suburban community and may be viewed as an
opportunity to implement measures that encourage other modes of transportation to work as a means
to combat traffic congestion and delay.




November 2019                                                                                                              2-7
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                                                                                    Carpooled, 7%



                                                                                      Transit, 3%
                                                                                       Taxi, 0%
                                                                                      Motorcycle, 0%
                                                                                       Bicycle, 0%
                                                                Other means, 1%
                                                                                       Walked, 2%
                                                              Worked at home, 11%
               Drove Alone, 76%




                                                         Figure 2-8. Means of Transportation to Work
                                             Source: American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate 2012-2016

The bulk of residents, approximately 44 percent, spend 15 to 30 minutes traveling to work one way.
Approximately 32 percent of residents have a commute longer than 30 minutes. Roughly a quarter of
residents, approximately 24 percent, have a commute that is less than 15 minutes. Additional travel
time estimates are shown in Figure 2-9.

   4,000

   3,500

   3,000

   2,500

   2,000

   1,500

   1,000

      500

         0




                                                                       Figure 2-9. Travel Time to Work
                                             Source: American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate 2012-2016


2-8                                                                                           November 2019
                                                                                                 Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                                       Draper City




2.3             Peer City Comparisons
Draper City demographic and economic profiles show strong growth in the city. While this is an
important component to this plan, a comparative demographic profile will illustrate existing conditions
in the city as they compare to several peer cities in Utah. Seven cities were selected as peer cities that
share broad similarities with Draper, see Table 2-1. These characteristics include population size,
proximity to urban centers, stable residential growth, and expected future growth in both housing and
jobs.


                                          Table 2-1. Draper City Peer Cities
                           County                                                      Peer Cities
                       Salt Lake County                                         Herriman, South Jordan
                         Utah County                                  American Fork, Lehi, Spanish Fork, Springville
                         Davis County                                                   Bountiful

Draper City and peer cities all experienced population growth from 2010 to 2016, see Figure 2-10. The
population increase of cities was roughly similar in terms of the number of people added. However, the
growth rate is considerably greater in Herriman, Lehi, and South Jordan, see Figure 2-11. The higher
growth rates of these cities are largely attributable to the current boom cycle and the availability of
greenfield development. As the region’s developable land is exhausted, Draper City and its neighbors
will see currently developed land redevelop and will also experience greater demand more frequent
infill development. The city’s transportation network will need to respond to this in the future.

  70,000

  60,000

  50,000

  40,000

  30,000

  20,000

  10,000

      -
            American       Bountiful      Draper    Herriman          Lehi     South Jordan Spanish Fork      Springville
              Fork

                                                      2010     2016


                                                         Figure 2-10. Draper City Peer City Population Change
                Source: 2010 United States Decennial Census, American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate 2012-2016




November 2019                                                                                                                 2-9
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




  6%

  5%

  4%

  3%

  2%

  1%

  0%
         American Fork    Bountiful   Draper     Herriman      Lehi      South Jordan Spanish Fork   Springville


                                      Figure 2-11. Draper City Peer City Annualized Growth Rate 2010-2016
               Source: 2010 United States Decennial Census, American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate 2012-2016

Additional data from the ACS provide typical work commute mode and length of trip for Draper City
residents and peer cities. Primary commute modes are shown in Figure 2-12 and Figure 2-13. A strong
majority of resident workers drive alone to work. This is consistent with the dominant urban form of
these communities as they are all primarily car oriented. See Figure 2-13. Although Draper City and its
peer cities are predominately auto oriented, transit service and active transportation facilities are
expanding as is the ease of their access. Even though alternative travel modes are used for less than
5 percent of resident work trips, Draper City has a higher alternative travel mode share than five of its
peer cities. Bountiful and South Jordan both had an alternative travel mode above six percent, see
Figure 2-13. Access to Frontrunner an TRAX may be a factor in these cities seeing a higher transit mode
share. Draper City might presumably see its transit mode share increase as urban form patterns more
effectively respond to transit accessibility. Enhancements to bicycle and pedestrian facilities may also
help increase the alternative transportation mode share with improved accessibility to local jobs.

  90%
  80%
  70%
  60%
  50%
  40%
  30%
  20%
  10%
   0%
          American Fork   Bountiful   Draper     Herriman      Lehi      South Jordan Spanish Fork   Springville

                                               Drove Alone   Carpooled


                                               Figure 2-12. Peer City Drive Alone versus Carpool Comparison
                                                   Source: American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate 2012-2016




2-10                                                                                                  November 2019
                                                                                    Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                      Draper City




 7%

 6%

 5%

 4%

 3%

 2%

 1%

 0%
      American Fork   Bountiful   Draper    Herriman       Lehi    South Jordan Spanish Fork   Springville


                                  Figure 2-13. Peer City Percent Traveling to Work by Alternative Mode
                                              Source: American Community Survey 5-Year Estimate 2012-2016


2.4             Existing Land Use
Land use in Draper City is consistent with other suburbanized areas in Utah – most uses are segregated,
apart from some mixed-use zones. In Draper, The Town Center and Transit Station zones permit mixed-
use development as well as moderate residential density of multi-family structures up to 35 dwelling
units per acre in some areas. This differs from Multiple Use locations which allow the uses as Mixed Use
but do not incorporate multiple uses per structure. Most land in Draper City zoned for residential use is
reserved for low density single-family detached structures with one dwelling unit per acre or fewer.
Some residential zones permit densities of up to four or twelve dwelling units per acre with dual-family
and multi-family structures permitted as of right. See Figure 2-14.




November 2019                                                                                                2-11
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                             Figure 2-14. Existing Zoning
                                       Source: Draper City




2-12                                         November 2019
                                                                               Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                Draper City




2.4.1           Traffic Analysis Zones (TAZ)
Transportation planning depends on estimating future land uses in addition to demographic changes.
This information is used in a regional computer-based model, the Travel Demand Model (TDM), which
forecasts trips by origin and destination. A traffic analysis zone (TAZ) is a geographical unit,
geographically smaller than a municipality, and comparable in size to a census block group. Traffic
analysis zones are the foundation of a TDM and were defined by the Wasatch Front Regional Council.
Demographic data is aggregated to the TAZ geography and includes number of households, resident
population, and number of jobs, see Figure 2-15 and Figure 2-16, respectively.




                                        Figure 2-15. Draper City TAZ Boundaries and Total Households
                                                                              Source: WFRC, Draper City




November 2019                                                                                         2-13
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                             Figure 2-16. Draper City TAZ Boundaries and Total Jobs
                                                           Source: WFRC, Draper City




2-14                                                                   November 2019
                                                                                    Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                     Draper City




2.5             Alternative Travel Modes
2.5.1           Transit
Rail and bus transit modes serve Draper City and are provided by UTA, see Figure 2-17. Existing rail
transit includes commuter rail (FrontRunner) and light rail (TRAX). FrontRunner was expanded to Draper
City and destinations south in 2012 offering access to Ogden, Provo, and other cities along the Wasatch
Front. FrontRunner currently provides service with 60 minute headways Monday through Saturday with
30 minute headways during peak travel times Monday through Friday. The TRAX Blue Line was extended
to its current terminus at the Draper City Town Center in 2013. TRAX serves points north of Draper City
with 15 minute headways Monday through Friday and 20 minute headways Saturday and Sunday.
The Frontrunner and TRAX lines represent major transit investment corridors in Draper City and
connections to surrounding land uses are critical to maximize the value of the transit investment. All
three Draper TRAX stations have direct access to the regional trail system via the Porter Rockwell Trail.
Additionally, the Draper Town Center TRAX station is located within the Town Center land use
designation. The Draper Frontrunner station area is designated as a Transit Station District land use.
There is significant commercial office development and some multi-family residential development
within a half mile of the station.
Existing bus service in Draper includes four bus routes with semi-frequent service. Bus route 871 has the
most regular service with 30 minute headways all day. Bus route F514 provides 30 minute peak
headways and 60 minute off-peak headways. Bus route 526 provides 3 AM trips and 3 PM trips only. The
F546 is a looping route with 60 minute headways.




November 2019                                                                                              2-15
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                             Figure 2-17. Existing Transit Service
                                           Source: UTA, Draper City




2-16                                                  November 2019
                                                                                    Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                     Draper City




2.5.2           Pedestrian and Bicycle
Draper City has a variety of active transportation choices and access to an extensive trail network for
recreation, see Figure 2-18. Some bike routes are designated through shared-lane markings or signs but
do not provide designated lanes. Trails include The Porter-Rockwell Trail, Willow Creek Trail, and Draper
City Canal Trail. Conventional bike lanes are found on many north/south and east/west corridors and
include: 12300 South – east/west route crossing I-15, 1300 East – north/south route with gaps, and Fort
St – north/south route.




                                                         Figure 2-18. Existing Bicycle Facilities and Trails
                                                                                         Source: Draper City



November 2019                                                                                              2-17
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




2.6           Safety
Crash data for motor vehicles, bicycles, and pedestrians were analyzed for state-maintained and
city-maintained infrastructure to pinpoint hotspot areas and crash patterns within Draper City from
2015 to 2017. The identification of crash patterns, high-risk areas, and hazardous conditions within
principal intersections will allow Draper City to address overall safety for its citizens.

2.6.1         Crash Data Analysis
Figure 2-19 is a heat map showing concentration of surface street crashes throughout Draper City. Areas
containing the highest concentration of crashes tend to be on state-maintained roads. These hotspot
areas are along 11400 South (SR-175), 12300 South (SR-71), Bangerter Highway (SR-154).




                                            Figure 2-19. Draper City Surface Street Crash Concentration
                                                Source: UDOT. These data may be protected under 23 USC 409



2-18                                                                                          November 2019
                                                                                                              Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                                                  Draper City



Among city-maintained facilities, the following intersections manifest the highest concentrations of
crashes:
     •     12300 South & 900 East.
     •     Draper City Parkway & 1300 East.
     •     Pioneer Road & 1300 East Roundabout.
     •     Highland Drive & 1300 East & 13800 South.
     •     Highland Drive at Bangerter Highway/Traverse Ridge Road.




                                                      A portion of Traverse Ridge Road

A detailed review of the crash patterns and infrastructure at these five intersections resulted in the
identification of potential safety recommendations. Table 2-2 summarizes the findings of this
assessment. Further detail is contained in the appendix.


                 Table 2-2. Draper City Analysis of Intersections with Highest Number of Crashes
                                          Total            Dominant
           Intersection                  Crashes         Collision Type                Potential Safety Recommendations
 12300 South & 900 East                     35          Front to Rear     Install high-visibility signal head backplates and/or mast
                                                                          arms.
 Draper City Parkway &                      51          Front to Rear     Install high-visibility signal head backplates. Evaluate signal
 1300 East                                                                timing. Implement access management at driveways north
                                                                          of intersection.
 Pioneer Road & 1300 East                   28          Front to Rear     Conduct regular maintenance of pavement markings to
 Roundabout                                                               ensure visibility.
 Highland Drive &                           33          Angle             Recent lane striping and crosswalk relocations have been
 1300 East & 13800 South                                                  conducted at this intersection and the recent extension of
                                                                          13200 South may have resulted in modified traffic patterns
                                                                          at this area. Continue to monitor to observe whether
                                                                          changes have a positive effect on crash patterns.
 Highland Drive & Bangerter                 27          Angle/Front to    Implement left-turn phasing for Highland Drive approaches.
 Parkway/Traverse Ridge                                 Rear
 Road
Source: UDOT. These data may be protected under 23 USC 409.




November 2019                                                                                                                           2-19
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




2.6.2         Crash Severity
Figure 2-20 shows locations of crashes that resulted in serious injury or fatality from 2015 to 2017. Of
these 33 collisions, 28 crashes resulted in serious injuries, and 5 resulted in fatalities. Though these
crashes are dispersed throughout the city, many of these crashes occurred in the northern part of
Draper City on roadways with direct access to I-15, such as 11400 South and 12300 South. Several
locations of injury-related collisions from Figure 2-20, directly correlate with hotspot areas shown in
Figure 2-19. Draper City can use these correlated areas as guidance for determining prioritization of
future infrastructure safety improvements.




                                                Figure 2-20. Draper City Crash Severity Map (2015-2017)
                                                 Source: UDOT. These data may be protected under 23 USC 409




2-20                                                                                           November 2019
                                                                                  Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                   Draper City




2.6.3           Bicycle and Pedestrian Data
From 2015 to 2017, there were 32 crashes between bicycles and motor vehicles, and 31 crashes
between pedestrians and motor vehicles. The locations of these crashes are dispersed throughout
Draper City, as shown in Figure 2-21, and for the most part, correlate with hotspot areas denoted in
Figure 2-19. Locations of bicycle and pedestrian crashes that do not correlate with hotspot areas can be
found east of I-15, between 12300 South and 13800 South.




                                Figure 2-21. Draper City Bicycle and Pedestrian Crash Map (2015-2017)
                                                Source: UDOT. These data may be protected under 23 USC 409




November 2019                                                                                            2-21
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



While these locations do not necessarily indicate strong crash patterns, they can be used when
considering areas in which dedicated bicycle and pedestrian facilities can be installed or enhanced to
improve safety conditions for these modes of travel. Recommendations to improve cyclist and
pedestrian safety involve improving visibility of pedestrians and bicyclists by providing dedicated
facilities to increase driver awareness. These recommendations include and are not limited to the
following list:
       •      Installation and maintenance of dedicated bike lanes and buffer zones, sidewalks, and
              crosswalks.
       •      Dedicated pedestrian phasing.
       •      Installation of high-intensity activated crosswalk beacon (HAWK) signals.
       •      Increased lighting in heavily used bicycle and pedestrian corridors.
       •      Consideration of all modes of travel in longitudinal roadway and intersection design.

2.7               Connectivity
Connectivity enhances a community in several ways. The Utah Street Connectivity Guide (2017) states
that connectivity provides benefits to:
       •      Mobility.
       •      Transportation Choice.
       •      Safety.
       •      Infrastructure and Growth Management.
       •      Health.
       •      Economic Vitality.
       •      The Environment.
       •      Community Access.
Good connectivity is achieved through careful transportation and land use planning at three scales:
regional, community, and neighborhood. The following discussion illustrates the connectivity conditions
and challenges for Draper City at the regional and community scales.

2.7.1             Regional Scale
Because of its position in the southeast corner of the Salt Lake Valley, Draper City faces regional
connectivity challenges from the surrounding topography. The city is adjacent to mountainous terrain
on both the south and east sides which represent significant barriers in connecting with other
communities. See Figure 2-22.
On the east, the closest cross-mountain route for Draper City is Big Cottonwood Canyon Road (SR-190)
to Guardsman Pass which is located near Sandy City and is only open seasonally. To the south, Traverse
Ridge Road connects over the mountains into Highland City and Lehi City in Utah County. However, the
circuitous alignment and position of Traverse Ridge Road is such that it does not provide an attractive
route for regional north-south traffic. Significant out-of-direction travel is required for most Salt
Lake/Utah inter-county travelers to access the roadway. Rather, Traverse Ridge Road primarily supports
small-scale connections between Draper City, Highland City, and Lehi City, such as access to schools and
local commercial facilities.



2-22                                                                                                  November 2019
                                                                                     Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                      Draper City




                                                      Figure 2-22. Draper City Regional-Scale Connectivity

The Dimple Dell Regional Park further influences regional north-south connectivity for Draper City.
Paved bicycle or vehicular crossings of the 4.5-mile linear park are available at only a few locations. In
particular, there are no crossings between 1300 East and Dimple Dell Road – a distance of almost
2.5 miles.
The Jordan River is the most significant feature influencing regional east-west connectivity. Jordan River
vehicular crossings near Draper City are primarily limited to major arterial roads, although the Jordan
River Parkway trail network offers a few additional river crossings for pedestrians and cyclists. There are



November 2019                                                                                                2-23
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



no roadway crossings for the 6.5-mile distance between Bangerter Highway and 2100 North in Lehi City
other than the 14400 South crossing. However, the 14400 South crossing limited in throughput by the
narrow, one-lane roadway section beneath the Union Pacific railroad (UP) and UTA commuter rail
bridge. The upcoming construction of the Porter Rockwell Boulevard bridge will provide a major
roadway alternative to 14400 South.

2.7.2         Community Scale
Several features influence community-scale connectivity in Draper City, see Figure 2-23. The UTA rail line
sweeps through Draper City acting as a barrier for north-south connectivity, as well as east-west
connectivity. The lack in vehicular access between Bangerter Parkway and 1300 East is the largest
connectivity gap, though it is influenced by the natural slope of the land. The recent 13200 South
roadway extension enhanced vehicular connectivity between 1300 East and Boulter Street. It should be
noted that per the agreement with UTA to open the 13200 South vehicular crossing, the Boulter Street
crossing will be closed when the rail line resumes active rail traffic.
I-15 and the UP/UTA rail lines west of I-15 offer twin connectivity barriers to east-west travel. Major
arterials are the only types of roadways to cross either feature. There are no additional pedestrian or
bicycle crossings of either I-15 or the rail lines.
In the south end of Draper City, the topography of Traverse Ridge creates a challenge for establishing a
well-connected road network. In order to provide reasonable slopes, roadways must often follow the
natural terrain, often resulting in circuitous and disconnected road networks. The lack of connectivity is
also somewhat influenced by the position of the South Mountainside Golf Course which physically
divides the Traverse Ridge road network.
The position of the current prison site limits connectivity in the surrounding area. The future
configuration of the transportation network after the prison relocates is unknown but has the potential
to greatly augment community-scale connectivity, if designed thoughtfully.
Connections from Draper City north to Sandy City are particularly limited on the east side of Relation
Street/1700 East. A series of residential street disconnects and the position of the Hidden Valley Golf
Course force users to travel west to 1300 East and Draper City Parkway to find roadway connectivity.
Further west of this area, Sandy City installed a roadway barrier at the city boundary on Pineridge Road
severing connections between residential uses in Sandy and commercial and institutional land uses in
Draper City.
There are multiple local street east-west disconnects between Fort Street and 1300 East in central
Draper City. The 1.7 mile stretch between Pioneer Road and 13800 South has only one east-west
roadway connection at 13200 South. There are five other locations where an unfinished roadway or a
barrier at a private street blocks east-west connectivity. In contrast, the adjacent area just to the west
(between 300 East and Fort Street) supports four east-west roadway connections between Pioneer Road
and 13800 South. These connections occur at Willow Springs Lane, Golden Pheasant Drive, 13200 South,
and Stokes Avenue. The frequency of east-west connections helps provide redundant access so that the
traffic burden is not excessive on any single street.




2-24                                                                                           November 2019
                                               Master Transportation Plan
                                                                Draper City




                Figure 2-23. Draper City Community-Scale Connectivity




November 2019                                                         2-25
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




2.7.3         Transit Stations
Connectivity at transit stations is a critical component of a multi-modal transportation network. Transit
stations with good connectivity increase the service area of the transit system. Roadway, sidewalk, and
trail configurations directly impact the ability to access a transit station via walking. Figure 2-24
illustrates examples of high and low connectivity in the vicinity of a transit station. In each example, the
areas less than a 1/4 mile walk distance (blue lines) are juxtaposed against the physical 1/4 mile radius
(red circle). In the high-connectivity example, the 1/4 mile walk shed accesses about 64 percent of the
area within the physical 1/4 radius.




                               Figure 2-24. Examples of High and Low Connectivity at Transit Stations
                                                                             Source: Urban Design 4 Health


Draper City has four major transit stations – three TRAX light rail station and one commuter rail station.
Figure 2-25 illustrates the 1/4 mile and 1/2 mile walksheds against a 1/4 mile and 1/2 mile physical
buffers. Table 2-3 compares the actual walk area capture for each station against the ideal capture goal
of 64 percent. Most stations fall well below the ideal capture goal of 64 percent at either buffer
distance, though the Crescent View and Kimballs Lane TRAX stations nearly meet or exceed 50 percent
at the 1/2 mile buffer. The Draper City Frontrunner station walksheds have the lowest capture area of
any station primarily due to the lack of immediate pedestrian connectivity east of the railroad tracks.




2-26                                                                                             November 2019
                                                                                         Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                           Draper City




                                                            Figure 2-25. Draper City Transit Station Walksheds


                              Table 2-3. Draper City Transit Station Walkshed Analysis
                                                                               Actual Capture Area
                Transit Station              Area Capture Goal      1/4 Mile Radius           1/2 Mile Radius
 Crescent View TRAX Station                        64%                   24%                         58%
 Kimballs Lane TRAX Station                        64%                   33%                         49%
 Draper City Town Center TRAX Station              64%                   31%                         38%
 Draper City FrontRunner Station                   64%                   21%                         27%



November 2019                                                                                                    2-27
                                                                                     Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                      Draper City




3.              FUTURE CONDITIONS
3.1             Future Land Use
The Draper City General Plan anticipates that the majority of the land within the city in the future will be
residential. The General Plan provides for additional residential development throughout the city, with
infill development on larger residential/agricultural lots that are currently developed (see Figure 3-1).
Because land use plans are subject to change from time to time, refer to the official Draper City land use
plan for the most up to date information.
Existing land use patterns
notwithstanding, Draper City
actively seeks growth of
commercial land uses for its
future. Much of the employment
growth has been experienced and
is projected to continue to occur
west of I-15 in areas designated
as commercial/growth areas.
Employment pockets are also
planned along Bangerter
Parkway, and along Highland
Drive from Bangerter Parkway to
I-15 and the county line with the
existing gravel pit transitioning to
commercial uses once mineral
extraction has finished. The city is
                                                                Highland Drive
also planning for a mixed used
“Town Center” in the area surrounding City Hall and the Draper City Town Center TRAX station at
12400 South. A second mixed use area “Transit Station” will surround the Draper City Station
FrontRunner stop. Each of these areas is located near a major transit investment corridor or potential
future corridor according to planned TRAX extension alignment options.
Although Draper City is planning for additional residential and commercial development, the city has
plans to preserve considerable amounts of land for open space or cultural uses. Future use of the
current Utah State Prison site is a subject of much discussion and planning efforts. The options and
preferences for the prison site redevelopment are numerous and will likely be guided by the State of
Utah resources.




November 2019                                                                                                3-1
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                             Figure 3-1. Draper City Future Land Use
                                                   Source: Draper City



3-2                                                      November 2019
                                                                                  Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                   Draper City




3.1.1           Draper City General Plan
The Draper City General Plan provides the foundation for Wasatch Front Regional Council’s (WFRC)
socioeconomic (SE) forecasts. These forecasts were the basis for forecast revisions completed for this
plan, revisions which were developed through an iterative process with Draper City. Additionally, due to
the uncertainty of the future prison site redevelopment, two forecast sets were developed to bookend
the potential spectrum of eventual development patterns. The first assumed development typical of the
Wasatch Front and the I-15 corridor, and the second borrows from the vison of the Point of the
Mountain Development Commission’s preferred scenario. Figure 3-2 shows the proposed future land
use of the Point of the Mountain Development Commission’s preferred scenario. The future population,
household, and employment data were used to estimate future transportation demand within the city
using the regional travel demand model, further discussed in subsequent sections of this chapter. Figure
3-3 summarizes the 2040 population, household, and employment forecasts for both the typical
conditions and the Point of the Mountain Development Commission vision as compared to 2014 base-
year SE data.




                                    Porter Rockwell Trail at 1300 East




November 2019                                                                                             3-3
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                      Figure 3-2. Point of the Mountain Commission Preferred Scenario Land Use Concept
                                                                 Source: Point of the Mountain Commission




3-4                                                                                         November 2019
                                                                                                  Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                                   Draper City




  100,000
   90,000
   80,000
   70,000
   60,000
   50,000
   40,000
   30,000
   20,000
   10,000
                   -
                                  Households                       Population                     Employment

                                                  2014    2040, Typical    2040, Vision


                                                            Figure 3-3. Household, Population, Employment Forecast

3.1.2                       Development Scenario
The anticipated future growth will have a significant impact on traffic within Draper City. Although
Draper City is at more than 50 percent built out, the number of vehicle trips will more than double when
Draper City reaches build out due to the nonlinear nature of vehicle trip growth. The following figures
(Figure 3-4 through Figure 3-8) provide a conceptual illustration of the effect of development on the
number of vehicle trips based upon Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), Trip Generation Manual
10th Edition trip rates. These illustrations are conceptual, and do not represent specific parcels in Draper
City. They do, however, represent the nature of past and projected future developments in the City.

                   12,000                                                                                10,978
                   11,000
                   10,000
                    9,000
                    8,000
  Trips Produced




                    7,000
                    6,000
                    5,000
                    4,000                                                           3,548
                    3,000                                 2,438
                    2,000
                    1,000           360
                        0
                                Phase I - 10%         Phase II - 60%            Phase III - 80%     Phase IV - 100%
                                                         Phase - Percent Developed Land


                                        Figure 3-4. Land Use and Corresponding Trip Rates for Development Scenario




November 2019                                                                                                             3-5
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



In the following scenarios, an approximate quarter section of land is developed over time. As the use of
the land changes, the number of trips generated by those land uses also changes. During early phases of
development, much of the land is used for single family residential and non-commercial agricultural
purposes. Over time, land uses intensify to generate more single and multi-family residential and
commercial uses.
                                                                   Development Phase I – 10% Developed
                                                            Land Use            Description        Trips Per Day
                                                          Farm                   22 Farms              258
                                                          Single Family          8 Homes               102
                                                                             Total Trips Per Day       360




                                                                           Figure 3-5. Development Phase I



                                                                   Development Phase II – 60% Developed

                                                            Land Use            Description        Trips Per Day
                                                          Farm                   11 Farms              134
                                                          Single Family         139 Homes             1,408
                                                          School               400 students            756
                                                          Church              1 at 20,000sq/ft         140
                                                                             Total Trips Per Day      2,438




                                                                          Figure 3-6. Development Phase II




3-6                                                                                                November 2019
                                                                                          Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                            Draper City



                                                                     Development Phase III – 80% Developed
                                                              Land Use             Description        Trips Per Day
                                                           Farm                      5 Farms               61
                                                           Single Family           143 Homes              1,445
                                                           Apartment            125 Apartments             680
                                                           School                 500 Students             945
                                                           Church               1 at 20,000 sq/ft          140
                                                           Office               1 at 25,000 sq/ft          277
                                                                                Total Trips Per Day       3,548




                                                                           Figure 3-7. Development Phase III


                                                                    Development Phase IV – Fully Developed
                                                              Land Use            Description         Trips Per Day
                                                           Single Family          143 Homes              1,445
                                                            Townhouse           200 Townhomes            1,471
                                                            Apartment           170 Apartments            925
                                                            School               600 Students            1,134
                                                            Church              1 at 20,000 sq/ft         140
                                                            Office              2 at 35,000 sq/ft         751
                                                            Supermarket         1 at 55,000 sq/ft        5,112
                                                                               Total Trips Per Day       10,978




                                                                           Figure 3-8. Development Phase IV
The planned future land use is critical to the development of this Master Transportation Plan. For
purposes of evaluation and planning, transportation engineers have defined a unit of measure as a
vehicle trip. A trip is a one-direction vehicle movement with either the origin or the destination (exiting
or entering) inside the study site. (Source: ITE, Trip Generation User’s Guide 2003.) In general terms, any
time a vehicle passes through a driveway, a trip is registered. Detached single-family residential units
typically generate 9.4 trips per day per residence. A shopping center development averages 37.8 trips
per day per 1,000 square developed feet, whereas an office park generates 11.1 trips per day per 1,000
square feet. As shown in the previous scenario, land use dictates the number of generated trips, and
thus, the transportation needs of the future.
As shown by this scenario, the type of land use dictates the number of trips generated. Trip generation,
population, household and employment forecasts are used in this plan to anticipate future roadway
needs. These forecasts are also compared to regional and state plans to ensure that Draper City’s
Master Transportation Plan complements and takes advantage of current and future road connections.


November 2019                                                                                                      3-7
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




3.2           Regional Plans
The forecasting and planning undertaken by Draper City is complemented region-wide by state and
regional agencies such as the WFRC, the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), and the UTA.
Many of Draper City’s experiences regarding roads and transit are also experienced throughout the
Wasatch Front. Population projections indicate that the Wasatch Front Region will increase from
approximately 1,700,000 persons in 2015 to 2,300,000 persons in 2040. Vehicle trips and VMT is
expected to grow at a rate greater than 1.5 times the rate of population growth across the region.

3.2.1         Wasatch Front Regional Council Long Range Transportation Plan
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) is the designated Metropolitan Planning Organization for
the greater Wasatch Front Region. As such, the WFRC is required by the federal government to develop
and approve a Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) which is updated every four years. This plan usually
covers a time span of 30 years and governs regionally significant highway and transit development
across the urbanized areas of Salt Lake, Davis and Weber Counties. The most recent RTP for the
Wasatch Front Regional Council area was adopted in May 2019.
To address future state roadway needs, the WFRC has identified several sections of roads, administered
by Utah State and local governments, for which planned improvements exist. The following map shows
the location of these planned highway projects within Draper as detailed by the 2019-2050 WFRC RTP.
Projects are separated by planned phase with Phase 1 projects (2019-2030), Phase 2 projects (2031-
2040), and Phase 3 projects (2041-2050). Future transit projects are also shown. See Figure 3-9.




3-8                                                                                        November 2019
                                Master Transportation Plan
                                                 Draper City




                Figure 3-9. WFRC RTP Projects by Phase
                                           Source: WFRC




November 2019                                           3-9
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



The WFRC projects shown in Figure 3-9 are detailed in Table 3-1 and Table 3-2. Close coordination for
this plan has occurred with the WFRC, UDOT, UTA, and the neighboring cities to Draper City such as
Sandy, South Jordan, Riverton, Bluffdale, Lehi, and Highland.


                                 Table 3-1. WFRC RTP Highway Project Descriptions
   WFRC
 Reference
 No. (Phase)        Roadway                  From           To                           Description
R-S-64 (3)     11800 South            Lone Peak     State Street   New Construction. 3 lanes to be built between 2041-
                                      Parkway                      2050.
R-S-65 (2)     12300 South/           Redwood       I-15           Widen from 4 to 6 lanes with a center turn lane on a
               12600 South            Road                         100 ft. right-of-way between 2031 and 2040. A priority
                                                                   bike route will be provided
R-S-124 (1)    Porter Rockwell        Geneva        14600          Widening. Widen from 2 lanes to 4 lanes with a center
               Road                   Collector     South/I-15     turn lane on a 167 ft. right-of-way between 2019 and
                                                                   2030. A priority bike route will be provided on part of
                                                                   the route.
R-S-129 (1)    600 West               Bangerter     14600 South    New Construction. 2 lanes on 70 ft. right-of-way. To be
                                      Highway                      built between 2019 and 2030. No bike lanes are
                                                                   planned for this route.
R-S-130 (3)    Galena Park            12300 South   13490 South    Widen from 2 to 4 lanes on 89 ft. right-of-way between
               Boulevard                                           2041 and 2050. Base/Priority bike routes.
R-S-131 (1)    Lone Peak Parkway      11400 South   12650 South    Widen from 2 to 4 lanes on 99 ft right-of-way between
                                                                   2019 and 2030. Priority bike routes
R-S-133 (1)    I-15 Northbound        Bangerter     2100 South     Widening I-15 from 4+HOT NB to 5+HOT NB. To be
                                      Highway                      built between 2019 and 2030.
R-S-134 (1)    I-15 Collectors and    Bangerter     I-215          New Construction of I-15 Collector/Distributor system
               Distributors           Highway                      Northbound to be built between 2019 and 2030.
               (Northbound)
R-S-135 (2)    I-15 Frontage Roads    Utah County   Bangerter      New Construction. 4 lane frontage roads on both sides
               (Northbound and        Line          Highway        of I-15 to be built between 2031-2040.
               Southbound)
R-S-136 (3)    I-15 HOT with          Utah County   Davis          Widening of I-15 with an additional HOT lane in both
               Ramps and              Line          County Line    directions and HOT ramps. To be built between 2041
               Reversible Lanes                                    and 2050.
R-S-147 (2)    Highland Drive         Draper City   14600 South    Widen from 2 to 4 lanes on 114 ft right-of-way
                                      Limit                        between 2031 and 2040. Priority bike routes.
R-S-148 (3)    Bangerter Parkway      Highland      13800 South    Widen from 2 to 4 lanes on 110 ft right-of-way
                                      Drive                        between 2041 and 2050. Base bike routes.
R-S-149 (2)    700 East               11400 South   12300 South    Widen from 2 to 4 lanes on 110 ft right-of-way
                                                                   between 2031 and 2040. Priority bike routes.
R-S-158 (2)    Highland Drive         9800 South    Draper City    New Construction. 4 lanes on 106 ft. right-of-way. To
                                                    Limit          be built between 2031 and 2040. Priority bike routes.
R-S-204 (2)    Bangerter Highway      I-15          ---            Interchange Improvements between 2031 and 2040.
               Interchange                                         No bike route is planned.
R-S-205 (3)    13800 South            I-15          ---            New Construction. 2 lanes. To be built between 2041
               Overpass                                            and 2050. Priority bike lanes.
R-S-206 (3)    Southfork Drive        I-15          ---            New Construction. Grade Separated Crossing. 2 lanes.
               Overpass                                            To be built between 2041 and 2050.
Source: WFRC




3-10                                                                                                         November 2019
                                                                                                Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                                   Draper City



                                   Table 3-2. WFRC RTP Transit Project Descriptions
  WFRC
Reference
 Number         Transit Project         From           To                              Description
T-S-1 (2)      Doubletrack          Davis County   Utah County   Commuter Rail upgrade to doubletrack FrontRunner in
               FrontRunner (Salt    Line           Line          Salt Lake County. Planned for Phase 2 (2031-2040)
               Lake County)
T-S-2          Electrify            Davis County   Utah County   Commuter Rail upgrade to electrify FrontRunner.
               FrontRunner          Line           Line          Currently unfunded.
T-S-12         State Street         North Temple   Draper        BRT from North Temple FrontRunner Station to Draper
               Corridor - BRT       FrontRunner    FrontRunner   FrontRunner Station via State Street, 12300 South, and
                                    Station        Station       Galena Park Blvd. Currently unfunded.
T-S-25 (3)     Draper Line          Draper Town    Utah County   TRAX Blue Line Extension from Draper Town Center Trax
               (South) – TRAX       Center TRAX    line          station south to Utah County line. Planned for Phase 3
               Extension            Station                      (2041-2050).
T-S-26 (3)     TRAX Line West       Sandy TRAX     Utah County   TRAX Line West alignment from Utah County Line to
               Alignment            Station        Line          Sandy TRAX station branching from Draper Line (South)
                                                                 TRAX extension near 14600 South, north through prison
                                                                 redevelopment and along FrontRunner corridor to 10200
                                                                 South. Planned for Phase 3 (2041-2050)
Source: WFRC


3.2.2           Utah Department of Transportation Plans
After being identified on the WFRC RTP, a project may be placed on UDOT’s Statewide Transportation
Improvement Program or STIP. The STIP is managed by Utah’s Department of Transportation, Systems
Planning and Programming Division and is a five-year plan of highway and transit projects for the State
of Utah. Projects in the STIP need to be financially constrained and have specific funding identified for
the proposed improvement. The STIP is maintained annually and includes transportation projects on the
state, city and county highway systems as well as projects in the national parks, national forests and
Indian reservations. These projects use various federal, state, and local funding programs.
Once on the STIP, a project undergoes environmental review and the design and purchase of the right of
way can begin. At every step of the way, participation by key stakeholders and the general public is a
crucial component to a successful project that meets a community transportation need.

3.3             Level of Service Evaluation
Regional forecasts and plans assist with the development of Draper City’s Master Transportation Plan.
The Wasatch Front Regional Council-Mountainland Association of Governments (WFRC-MAG) travel
demand model version 8.2 was used to generate a picture of how many cars will utilize current and
future roads based on the growth forecasts of Draper City and its neighbors. The Model was also used to
predict how well the street network performs in the context of future development.
Level of Service is used to evaluate how well a roadway or intersection operates and is expressed as a
letter grade from “A” to “F”. Level of Service (LOS) A represents traffic volumes that permit free vehicle
movement with little to no congestion and Level of Service F is traffic where conditions are very
congested, and vehicles may experience severe delay. Some congestion occurs at a level of Service D,
but the transportation system is assumed to be adequate (not failing) at this level. Planning in Draper
City has been performed to strive for a Level of Service D in the peak traffic hours for year 2040. Since
roads cannot be scaled to exactly fit demand, level of service D is a planning goal, but this goal may vary
on a street-by-street basis.


November 2019                                                                                                             3-11
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




3.3.1         Existing Level of Service
The Travel Demand Model is used to predict future traffic and level of service but can also be used to
quantify current conditions. Existing conditions were modeled with a 2014 base year, which is consistent
with the base year of the WFRC-MAG model. Figure 3-10 is a map of the 2014 Level of Service for Draper
City. Green roads have little or no traffic congestion, corresponding to LOS A, B or C, yellow roads have
“peak hour” traffic congestion, and red roads have significant traffic congestion. Two areas of significant
congestion currently exist within the city, on 1300 East from 13200 South to Highland Drive and on
Highland Drive between Minuteman Drive and Bangerter Parkway.




                                                                        Figure 3-10. 2014 Level of Service




3-12                                                                                           November 2019
                                                                                   Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                      Draper City




3.3.2           Future Level of Service
Year 2040 roadway traffic volumes were forecasted for all functionally classified roads within Draper
City using the WFRC-MAG model and inputs developed with Draper City. In total four sets of 2040
projections were produced from various combinations of land use, roadway network, and transit
network assumptions.
Because of the uncertainty regarding development at the prison site, two future land use scenarios were
developed to test how the redevelopment of the prison site effects Draper City’s transportation system.
The intent is to bookend the spectrum of potential development futures, with one lower intensity
“typical” and one higher intensity “vision” scenario. This method provides the opportunity to test how
the volatility of the prison site redevelopment will impact the greater city street network and
understand what infrastructure is necessary to support future development, regardless of how the
prison site actually develops over time.
The first scenario assumes redevelopment of the prison site consistent with other existing development
patterns along the I-15 corridor in the Wasatch Front. The second scenario is largely based on the recent
Point of the Mountain Development Commission’s visioning efforts and preferred alternative and has
much more dense and aggressive development assumptions. Outside of the immediate prison site, the
socioeconomic assumptions of the two scenarios are the same and contain revisions to the WFRC-MAG
2040 data set based upon city input and expected development.
Additionally, two roadway networks and two transit networks were developed. The two roadway
networks include a no-build scenario which assumes no change from the existing network within Draper
City and a build scenario which includes all projects from the Capitol Facilities Plan. Both the build and
no-build networks assume internal prison site roadways are consistent with the Point of the Mountain
Commission’s preferred alternative.
The first transit network includes no changes from the 2040 network included in the model, which
reflects existing plans in the WFRC and MAG long range plans. The second transit network, like the
vision land use scenario, is based on the Point of the Mountain Commission’s preferred alternative. The
major departure from WFRC and MAG long range plans concerns the extension of existing TRAX from its
current terminus in Draper City into Utah County along existing UTA-owned rail right-of-way. The vision
scenario does not extend the TRAX line in Draper City but instead assumes a new TRAX extension from
the Sandy TRAX station west across I-15 to the Sandy Frontrunner station. From there, the new TRAX
line runs south parallel to the I-15 corridor and through the prison site before again crossing I-15 and
reconnecting with the existing rail right-of-way near 14600 South thus continuing into Utah County.
Combinations of the above inputs were used to model four distinct 2040 scenarios. Table 3-3 summaries
the inputs used for each of the four scenarios.


                                        Table 3-3. Scenario Development
                        Prison Development               Road Network               Transit Network
     Scenario 1               Typical                      No-Build                 WFRC/MAG RTP
     Scenario 2               Vison                        No-Build                 WFRC/MAG RTP
     Scenario 3               Typical                        Build                  WFRC/MAG RTP
     Scenario 4               Vision                         Build                 TRAX Re-Alignment




November 2019                                                                                               3-13
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



Figure 3-11 shows modeling Scenario 1, 2040 No-Build with typical development of the prison site.
Without capacity improvements, many roadways within Draper City become severely congested by
2040. Severely congested roads include sections of 12300 South, Lone Peak Parkway, Pioneer Road,
13400 South, Bangerter Parkway, 1300 East, 14600 South, and Highland Drive.




                             Figure 3-11. Scenario 1 Level of Service – 2040 No Build, Typical Development




3-14                                                                                          November 2019
                                                                                    Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                     Draper City



Figure 3-12 shows modeling Scenario 2, 2040 No-Build with vison development of the prison site. Here
there is a very similar pattern of severely congested roadways outside of the prison site. Internal to the
prison site several roads become severely congested, along with Bangerter Highway, west of the
interchange.




                           Figure 3-12. Scenario 2 Level of Service – 2040 No Build, Vision Development




November 2019                                                                                              3-15
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



Figure 3-13 shows modeling Scenario 3, 2040 Build with typical development of the prison site. This
scenario shows that projects within the Capitol Facilities Plan adequately meet the demands placed
upon the future network by increased development pressures. Areas of severe congestion are limited to
short segments, mostly on state facilitates including, 12300 South, Bangerter Parkway, and 14600 South.




                             Figure 3-13. Scenario 3 Level of Service – 2040 Build, Typical Development




3-16                                                                                       November 2019
                                                                                 Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                  Draper City



Figure 3-14 shows modeling Scenario 4, 2040 Build with vision development of the prison site and the
re-alignment of TRAX extending into Utah County. Again, the effects of increased development within
the prison site remain localized. Congestion patterns are consistent with Scenario 3 outside the prison
area with roads internal to the prison site and Bangerter Highway west of the interchange also showing
severe congestion.




                              Figure 3-14. Scenario 4 Level of Service– 2040 Build, Vision Development




November 2019                                                                                           3-17
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



In summary, widespread congestion occurs in both Scenario 1 and Scenario 2 where no network or
capacity improvements are included. Scenario 3 shows that the improvements include in the Capitol
Facilities Plan adequately meet the needs of future development, where congestion is limited to small
segments and mostly on state facilities. Finally, impacts of increased development densities in the prison
site is localized within and around the site itself with little impact to the larger city area, this is evidenced
in Scenario 2 and Scenario 4.

3.4           Functional Classification
A functional classification of streets groups roadways into classes according to the character of traffic
they are intended to serve. The classes are based upon the degree of mobility (speed and trip length)
and land access that they permit. Roadway functional classifications are generally comprised of a mix of
arterials, collectors, and local streets. Arterials are designed to serve higher volumes of traffic at higher
speeds, while collectors are designed to balance land access with traffic speeds and traffic capacity.
Local streets are intended to provide low speed access to individual properties. Figure 3-15 summarizes
the hierarchy of the functional classification of streets based upon mobility and access.


                                   Freeway

                                      Major Arterial

                                              Minor Arterial
                        Mobility




                                                Major Collector

                                                                Minor Collector

                                                                          Local Street


                                                         Access


                                                             Figure 3-15. Functional Classification of Streets




3-18                                                                                                November 2019
                                                                                           Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                             Draper City



Table 3-4 provides general characteristics for traffic operations of each functional classification. The
definitions outlined include speed, average trip length, accident rate, and access control. Access control
refers to the number of intersections, driveways, etc., interrupting the roadway. These issues will be
discussed in greater detail in Chapter 4 regarding plan recommendations.


                       Table 3-4. Functional Classification General Characteristics
                                                                      Expected Crash
                                              Average Trip Length   (crashes per million
   Functional Group       Speed (mph)               (miles)            vehicles miles)           Access Control
        Arterial              45+                    3-15                     3-6                   Significant
    Major Collector          35-45                    1-5                     5-8                   Moderate
    Minor Collector          25-35                    <2                     6-12                    Minimal
         Local                <30                    < 0.5                   Varies                   None


3.4.1           On-street Parking
Parking vehicles on the roadway, whether overnight or during the day, is an additional component of
the Transportation Plan which relates to the streets’ functional classification. In Draper, residential
parking more commonly utilizes on-street parking than commercial parking because Draper City’s
ordinances require commercial development to provide off-street or parking lot storage of cars.




                                     300 East at 12600 South looking south

On-street parking impacts a street’s functionality both negatively and positively. On narrow roads, on-
street parking, particularly if permitted on both sides, may obstruct through traffic movement. Parked
cars can decrease safety on the roadway if a high volume of drivers are pulling into and leaving parking
spaces. Parked cars, especially near intersections but also near driveways, reduce visibility and can
hamper safe navigation of the streets both for drivers and pedestrians/bicyclists.
On-street parking may also have benefits for a road’s aesthetics and safety. Parked cars provide a buffer
for pedestrians and residents between the road and sidewalks and front yards. On wider roads, parked
cars serve to connect the two sides of the road, creating a more neighborhood appearance. On-street
parking can also serve as a “traffic calmer”, slowing traffic down as cars are forced to maneuver



November 2019                                                                                                      3-19
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



between vehicles on the side of the road. Although Draper City standards generally allow on-street
parking on local streets, local ordinances may place a variety of restrictions to on-street parking as
problems arise.

3.5           Future Alternative Travel Modes
3.5.1         Transit
Transit lines in Draper currently include TRAX Light Rail and Frontrunner Commuter Rail which both
represent major transit investment corridors. Draper is served by the TRAX Blue Line and has light rail
stations at Kimball’s Lane (700 East) and Draper Town Center. The Frontrunner Commuter Rail station is
located at 13000 South in the Vista Station development. Future alternative travel modes in Draper City
include core bus service along with enhancements to TRAX Light Rail and Frontrunner Commuter Rail.
Future planned transit projects in Draper include extending TRAX Light Rail south into Utah County on
one of two yet-to-be-determined alignments. Additionally, there are plans for future core bus service on
12300 South, State Street and a future roadway connection from Bangerter Highway to 14600 South.
Finally, there are plans to doubletrack portions of Frontrunner in Salt Lake County. Table 3-2 (shown
previously on page 3-11) lists the future transit projects on the WFRC RTP 2019-2050. Draper’s Master
Transportation Plan for Transit is discussed in the next chapter of this report.




                             Porter Rockwell Trail at the planned UTA crossing at 1300 East


3.5.2         Walkability
“Bikeable” and “walkable” communities are desirable places to live, work and play, and are therefore a
key component of the Draper City Master Transportation Plan. Their desirability comes from two
factors. First, these communities locate, within an easy and safe walk, goods and services that a
community resident needs on a regular basis. These communities also make pedestrian activity possible,
expanding transportation options, and creating a streetscape that better serves pedestrians, bicyclists,
transit riders, and automobiles. Just as with transit, more people walking and biking means fewer trips
using cars and adding to congestion on Draper City’s streets. Aggressive use of walking and biking travel



3-20                                                                                           November 2019
                                                                                     Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                      Draper City



modes, often called “active” transportation modes, are especially useful in promoting healthy lifestyles
and serving the transportation needs of Draper City’s youth.

3.5.3           Pedestrian and Bicycle
The future planned pedestrian and bicycle network in Draper City is quite extensive. Draper City has
planned for many of the key population centers to be connected by the trail system. A map of the
pedestrian facilities is shown in Figure 3-16. Refer to the Parks and Trails Master Plan for the most
current trail network plan.




                  Trail from Vestry Road                          Bikers on Porter Rockwell Trail




                                      Roundabout 300 East and Skate Park




November 2019                                                                                               3-21
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                                   Figure 3-16. Pedestrian Facilities Plan
                             Source: Draper City Parks and Trails Master Plan




3-22                                                            November 2019
                                                                                   Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                    Draper City




3.5.4           Autonomous Vehicles
While most aspects of vehicle automation fall under the jurisdiction of federal and state governments,
Draper City is responsible for maintenance of roadway facilities under its jurisdiction. Today’s
autonomous vehicle technologies operate best on high-quality infrastructure. Proper road striping,
signage, geometries and pavement conditions all help facilitate use of automated vehicle features that
are currently in use.
SAE International has identified six levels of vehicle automation to categorize autonomous vehicles, see
Figure 3-17. This categorization schedule has become an industry standard and was recognized by The
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) which has also adopted SAE International
automation levels.
Most vehicles today operate at Level 0 – no automation. Recent additions of adaptive cruise control or
other safety-enhancing technologies such as adaptive cruise control, automatic emergency braking, and
lane-departure / blind-spot monitor brought some vehicles to Level 1 – Driver Assistance. Prototypes of
autonomous and connected vehicles, with varying levels of automation are currently being tested and
some features are becoming more readily available on new vehicles. These prototypes operate at
Level 2 and Level 3 and still require a human driver for many maneuvers.
Parking demand is also expected to change with increasing vehicle automation as well as the need for
more curbside loading and unloading zones. Although these areas of regulation fall outside the purview
of this transportation plan, it will be important monitor changes in these demands as they may impact
overall travel behavior.




                     Figure 3-17. SAE International’s Level of Driving Automation for On-Road Vehicles
                                                                      Source: SAE International, SAE J3016TM


November 2019                                                                                             3-23
                                                                                    Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                     Draper City




4.              RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1             Street Standards
Consistent with the goals of the CTC, standards have been developed in this Plan for each specific
functional classification of street. These standards reflect the goals of the City and are grounded on
cross sections presented in this Master Transportation Plan such that changes in a street cross section
from one property to the next should not generally be necessary. All streets shall be required to meet
the Draper City standard cross sections identified in this Master Transportation Plan.
Modification of these standards may be recommended on a case-by-case basis by the City Engineer
based on a review of the existing and proposed function of the road, proximity to major intersections
and access points, accident history in the area, transition to existing roadways, and related technical
criteria. The City Engineer may require higher standards, based on best engineering judgment related to
the safe operation of traffic flow. Intersections of minor collector streets and higher road classification
shall be reviewed for the need for turn lanes and other geometric improvements and are prime
locations where higher cross section standards may be required. The City Engineer may approve
alternative standards when those standards can be demonstrated to provide a superior solution to the
safe operation of traffic flow and do not compromise aesthetic advantages of the standard cross section.
The City Engineer serves as a technical reference for the City, as final decisions and appeals rest with the
Draper City Council based on appropriate input and the best interests of the City.

4.1.1           Clear Zones
A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets (commonly referred to as the “Greenbook”)
published by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) defines
the clear zone as, “the unobstructed, traversable area provided beyond the end of the traveled way for
the recovery of errant vehicles. The clear zone includes shoulders, bicycle lanes, and auxiliary lanes
unless the auxiliary lane functions like a through lane.” (pg. 4-15) The suitable width and slope of a clear
zone depends on the street classification, operating speed, urban or rural setting, environmental
constraints, and the size and presence of a curb. Roadside landscaping and park strip requirements for
Draper City streets should adhere to the guidelines and policies within both the AASHTO Greenbook and
the most current version of the Roadside Design Guide, also published by AASHTO. Standards included in
the Roadside Design Guide as they relate to shoulders and clear zone are incorporated by reference and
may supersede the cross sections presented in this plan.

4.1.2           Local Streets – 60 Feet
Local streets are designed to offer access from residences to the roadway network. Local streets serve
many driveways and provide a collection point to collector or arterial roadways. Local streets should be
designed to minimize speed and cut-through traffic while meeting the requirements of emergency
vehicles. Local streets are typically placed with driveways on both sides and have posted speed limits of
25 miles per hour. Generally, no striping is proposed on local streets. However, the City Engineer may
provide roadway striping consisting of a center yellow line and outside white lines to allow travel lanes
no smaller than nine feet as a traffic calming measure. Parking may be restricted on local streets near
intersections, in high density or commercial areas, where snow removal or storage issues arise, or at
other locations deemed by the City.



November 2019                                                                                               4-1
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



The local street cross-section for the non-mountain areas of the city has a 60 foot right-of-way, which
includes 25 feet of paved area between gutters and a 30 foot travel way. The Valley Local Street
standard is shown in Figure 4-1. Mountain local streets shall consist of a 56-foot right-of-way and a
36-foot pavement width. Added pavement is necessary to accommodate snow storage and to minimize
the number of larger roads which may create significant cuts and fills in the steep slopes. Sidewalks may
be widened by widening the right-of-way of the mountain local road, without reduction of other cross
sectional elements. Mountain local streets may be designed without park strip and sidewalk on one side
where it would not serve development due to slope constraints. The Mountain Local Street standard is
shown in Figure 4-2.




                                                             Figure 4-1. Cross Section, Valley Local Street




                                                         Figure 4-2. Cross Section, Mountain Local Street

4.1.3             Minor Collectors – 66 Feet
Minor Collector streets within Draper City serve local trips and provide local access. Minor Collectors are
designated as:
      •       commercial minor collectors,
      •       residential minor collectors,
      •       or downtown minor collectors.



4-2                                                                                            November 2019
                                                                                   Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                    Draper City



All Minor Collectors have one through travel lane in each direction, park strips, and sidewalks within a
66 foot right-of-way. The sidewalks may be widened by up to three feet on each side with a
corresponding reduction of the park strips. This may be necessary where a continuous sidewalk is
provided between adjacent properties or in areas where a separate trail is required. Planned Minor
Collectors are shown in Figure 4-3.




                                                                    Figure 4-3. Planned Minor Collectors




November 2019                                                                                              4-3
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



Commercial Minor Collectors allow for improved business access by incorporating a center turn lane in
lieu of wide shoulders. Commercial Minor Collectors have 12-foot travel lanes, a 12-foot center turn
lane, and 4-foot bike lanes/shoulders. Although the shoulders on Commercial Minor Collectors are
narrower than those on other minor collector types, they allow for striped bike lanes within the four-
foot shoulder. However, the narrow shoulder/bike lane does not allow for on street parking. The
Commercial Minor Collector typical section is provided in Figure 4-4.




                                                  Figure 4-4. Cross Section, Commercial Minor Collector
Residential Minor Collectors make up the majority of the minor collectors within Draper City. The
Residential Minor Collector has 11-foot travel lanes, 7.5-foot shoulders, and 7-foot park strips. The wide
park strips and shoulders for on-street parking do not allow for a striped bike lane. However, Residential
Minor Collectors have sufficient shoulder/lane width to be designated as a bike route. Bike lanes can be
accommodated on the Residential Minor Collector by modifying the shoulder or park strips.
Modifications of a Residential Minor Collector to accommodate a bike lane may be recommended by
the City Engineer or others. See Figure 4-5.
Downtown Minor Collectors are the sections of Pioneer Road and Fort Street that are within the Draper
City Downtown District. These minor collectors vary from the typical minor collectors. The Draper City
Downtown zoning ordinance should be referenced for typical sections in the downtown area.




                                                   Figure 4-5. Cross Section, Residential Minor Collector




4-4                                                                                           November 2019
                                                                                  Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                   Draper City




4.1.4           Major Collectors – 74 Feet
Major Collectors, like minor collectors, have only one through travel lane in each direction but Major
Collectors have an additional center turn lane for use as a two-way left turn lane. The Major Collector
cross section has 11-foot travel lanes in each direction, a 12-foot center-turn lane, and 4.5-foot
shoulder/bike lanes. The narrow shoulder/bike lane does not permit on-street parking. The sidewalk
may be widened by up to three feet on each side with a corresponding reduction of the park strip. This
may be necessary where a continuous sidewalk is provided between adjacent properties or in areas
where a separate trail is required. Figure 4-6 provides the typical Major Collector section.
Planned Major Collectors within Draper City are 300 East, 1300 East, 13200 South, 13800 South, and
Highline Road. Figure 4-7 shows the Planned Major Collectors.




                                                              Figure 4-6. Cross Section, Major Collector




November 2019                                                                                             4-5
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                             Figure 4-7. Planned Major Collectors




4-6                                                  November 2019
                                                                                   Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                    Draper City




4.1.5           Minor Arterials – 80 Feet and 100 Feet
Minor Arterials balance regional travel and local access. Minor Arterials have two through travel lanes in
each direction and may or may not include a center turn lane/median. Minor Arterials are designated as
either a four lane or five lane Minor Arterial and may also vary case by case in their side treatment if
approved by the City. Planned Minor Arterials are shown in Figure 4-8.




                                                                      Figure 4-8. Planned Minor Arterials




November 2019                                                                                              4-7
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



The four lane Minor Arterial has two 12-foot travel lanes in each direction, and 5.5-foot shoulders/bike
lanes within an 84-foot right of way. They may also have curb/gutter to control drainage, park strips for
landscaping and space for sidewalks or multiuse trails. Figure 4-9 provides the typical four lane Minor
Arterial section.




                                                     Figure 4-9. Cross Section, Minor Arterial (Four Lane)
The five lane Minor Arterial has two 11-foot travel lanes in each direction, a 12-foot center turn
lane/median, and 4.5-foot shoulders/bike lanes within a 100-foot right of way. They also have
curb/gutter to control drainage, park strips for landscaping and space for sidewalks or multiuse trails.
Figure 4-10 provides the typical five lane Minor Arterial section.




                                                    Figure 4-10. Cross Section, Minor Arterial (Five Lane)

4.1.6         Arterials
Arterial streets are the primary regional transportation routes within Draper City. These roads have
limited access, higher speeds, and traffic signals only at major cross streets. They are a mix of UDOT
roads (11400 South, 12300 South, Bangerter Highway, State Street, Factory Outlet Drive, 700 East) and
Draper City roads (600 West, 13490 South, Highland Drive, Vista Station Boulevard, Galena Park
Boulevard). Arterial roads within Draper City are shown in Figure 4-11.




4-8                                                                                            November 2019
                       Master Transportation Plan
                                        Draper City




                Figure 4-11. Planned Arterials




November 2019                                  4-9
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



Arterials generally have two 12-foot travel lanes in each direction, a 14-foot center turn lane and 10-foot
shoulders. Their cross section may vary on a case-by-case basis, due to the differing standards of UDOT
and Draper City. For example, UDOT roads, such as 12300 South and the Bangerter Highway, may have a
slightly larger cross section. Portions of Draper City’s Highland Drive Arterial incorporate a
non-traversable median in place of a center turn lane. The following figures illustrate the typical arterial
cross-sections (Figures 4-12 through 4-15).




                                                                       Figure 4-12. Cross Section, Arterial




                                                     Figure 4-13. Cross Section, Highland Drive Arterial A




                                                     Figure 4-14. Cross Section, Highland Drive Arterial B




4-10                                                                                            November 2019
                                                                                 Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                  Draper City




                                                      Figure 4-15. Full Functional Classification System

4.2             Access Management
Access management is a concept which has emerged over the past several decades to improve roadway
system efficiency. Access management can be defined as the practice of providing restricted access to
land developments to preserve traffic flow on surrounding streets, and simultaneously maintain safety,
capacity, and speed. Access management can involve the control of a location, design, operations of
driveways, median openings, and street connections to a roadway. Similar to the concept of functional



November 2019                                                                                           4-11
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



classification involving the hierarchy of streets, access management typically involves the
implementation of restrictions on higher functioning roadways, such as arterial roads, with little or no
restrictions implemented on lower functioning roadways, such as local streets.
Proper design of driveways and roadway drainage systems are an important component of access
management. Design of driveways is generally addressed in City engineering standards, which define
specific details for the construction of the approach in accordance with the following Draper City
Engineering Standards Street Improvement Details:
       •      ST-07 – Flared Drive Approach,
       •      ST-08 - Flared Drive Approach Requiring Curb Cut, and
       •      ST-09 - Radius Drive Approach.
In addition to these design specifications, Table 4-1 provides geometric standards for commercial and
residential driveways.


                                  Table 4-1. Geometric Design of Driveway Approach Width
                                                              Approach Width (feet)
                            Land Use                       Minimum           Maximum   Curb Return Radius (feet)
                   Industrial and Commercial                  25                36                28
                   Residential – Collector                    16                30                5
                   Residential – Local                        12                30                5
Source: Draper City Street Improvement Standard Details

Wider driveways may be approved by the City Engineer where necessary to accommodate additional
turning and/or auxiliary lanes. Curb returns should generally increase as the speed on the approach
street increases but may be increased based on anticipated truck usage of the driveway.
Driveway operations are generally approved on a case-by-case basis by the City Engineer. Driveways
may restrict certain movements granted upon development approval. For example, circuitous access to
individual developments may be provided through operational restrictions of driveways. Driveway
restrictions may also be implemented at any time after the driveway is operational as a result of
engineering studies or recommendations which may demonstrate improvements in safety, capacity, or
speed.
Operational analysis of driveways during development approval, or as part of subsequent engineering
studies of a roadway, shall consider the following four main principles of access management:
    1. conflict elimination,
    2. conflict separation,
    3. removing speed differentials from travel or turn lanes, and
    4. providing on-site circulation and storage.
Driveway placement will have a profound effect on the function of the roadway on which it is located,
regardless of its design or operation. The City Engineer’s approval of access point locations is directly
related to the findings of traffic impact studies, location of neighboring access points and cross streets,
and consideration of the four main principles of access management. The Utah Department of
Transportation has adopted an access management policy documented in UDOT Administrative




4-12                                                                                                  November 2019
                                                                                               Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                                 Draper City



Rule R930-6. Curb cuts on all State Highways shall require a permit by UDOT in accordance with
Administrative Rule R930-6, in addition to other Draper City approvals and/or conditions.
In addition to incorporating the access spacing and related permit requirements of UDOT Administrative
Rule R930-6 by reference, the Master Transportation Plan has summarized the allowable access
management spacing on all streets in Draper City, including State Highways. Because several State
Highways are included in Draper City’s Arterial Roadway classification, Arterial street access spacing
requirements are listed individually, and other functional classification access spacing requirements are
listed by functional classification category. Access spacing may be increased upon approval of the City
Engineer based on localized conditions outlined in the four main access management principles.
Requests to decrease access spacing standards may be granted by the City Engineer. The City Engineer
may or may not require that a traffic impact study be submitted to evaluate the effects of decreasing
the access spacing standards. Table 4-2 lists the Draper City access spacing standards and Figure 4-16
illustrates spacing categories.


                             Table 4-2. Draper City Minimum Access Spacing Standards
                                                                    Signal    Public/Private    Private Access
                                                                   Spacing    Street Spacing        Spacing       State
      Roadway                   From                   To           (feet)        (feet)             (feet)       Hwy
 12300 South              Jordan River        MP 3.8                2640           N/A               N/A           Yes
 12300 South              MP 3.8              MP 4.6                2640           660               500           Yes
 12300 South              MP 4.6              Factory Outlet Dr     2640           N/A               N/A           Yes
 12300 South              Factory Outlet Dr   700 East              2640           660               350           Yes
 11400 South              Jordan River        State Street          2640           N/A               N/A           Yes
 State Street             11400 South         12300 South           2640           660               350           Yes
 700 East                 12300 South         11400 South           2640           660               350           Yes
 Bangerter Hwy            Jordan River        Bangerter Pkwy      No Access     No Access         No Access        Yes
 Bangerter Pkwy           Bangerter Hwy       13800 S               2640           N/A               N/A           Yes
 Bangerter Pkwy           13800 S             Highland Drive        2640           660               500            No
 Other Arterial Streets                                             2640           660               350            No
 Major Collector Streets                                            2640           660               350            No
 Minor Collector Streets                                            1320           350               200            No
 Local Streets                                                      1320           300               150            No




November 2019                                                                                                          4-13
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                                                              Figure 4-16. Access Management Spacing

Access spacing, also referred to as driveway spacing, is measured from the closest edge (perpendicular
tangent section) of the nearest driveway to the center of the proposed driveway. Access spacing
standards facilitate drivers processing one decision at a time. Through proper spacing, drivers may
monitor upcoming conflict points, and react accordingly to each conflict. Studies show that the speed of
traffic decreases with each additional driveway (Highway Capacity Manual, 6th Edition) and that
accident rates on a road increase by upwards of three percent with each new access point (TRB Access
Management Manual, 2014). Application of access spacing standards shall consider driveways on the
same side of the proposed driveway, as well as driveways on the opposing side of the street. Opposing
upstream driveways (vehicles approaching from the right of drivers in the proposed driveway) shall be
carefully considered due to conflicts presented with left turns into the proposed driveway.




4-14                                                                                         November 2019
                                                                                    Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                     Draper City



                                                          Public street spacing standards govern the
                                                          spacing between unsignalized public
                                                          intersections which typically accommodate
                                                          higher traffic volumes in comparison to private
                                                          driveways and access points. High volume
                                                          private driveways with volumes above 5,000
                                                          vehicles per day, or 100 vehicles per hour, may
                                                          be held to public street spacing standards at
                                                          the discretion of the City Engineer. Issues
                                                          associated with public street spacing are
                                                          identical to those associated with access
                                                          spacing. However, minimum spacing standards
                                                          for public streets are greater because of higher
                                                          traffic volumes. Private streets may be
                                                          restricted to right-in and right-out operation,
            12300 South approaching 300 East
                                                          at the discretion of the City engineer.
Spacing of traffic signals can have profound effects on the safety and efficiency of roadways. Traffic
signal placement is limited by warrants outlined in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(MUTCD). These warrants serve as minimum standards that must be satisfied before a traffic signal can
be considered at a location. Locations which satisfy minimum warrants may be restricted from the
installation of a traffic signal because of signal spacing standards previously mentioned.
Raised medians and other conflict point elimination actions may be installed at the discretion of the City
Engineer to eliminate signal warrants and promote traffic flow and safety. For example, research shows
that when direct left turns are diverted into a combined right-turn and U-turn movement, there is a
30 percent reduction in crash rates for arterial streets (TRB Access Management Manual, 2014).
To promote safe and efficient operations of roadway systems within the city, Draper City should
consider that new developments install the following conflict reduction methods at the discretion of the
City Engineer:
    •   right turn lane bays,
    •   raised medians,
    •   two-way center turn lanes,
    •   turn pockets,
    •   driveway illumination,
    •   and other measures to promote the safety and efficiency at access points.

4.3             Traffic Calming
4.3.1           Traffic Calming Alternatives
Traffic calming methods exist in many forms, from small, easy, inexpensive, non-intrusive actions and
projects to more intrusive actions and larger capital improvements. Typically, traffic calming is divided
into two types: measures intended to divert traffic from one route to another, and those meant to slow
speeding traffic. Although traffic calming tools are generally divided into these two functional groups,
there is much overlap between them, and measures intended to divert traffic will often slow traffic as
well.


November 2019                                                                                              4-15
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




4.3.2         Traffic Calming Tools
There are three classifications of traffic calming tools that can be implemented to increase driver
awareness and slow speeding traffic. They are as follows:
            1. Informative measures such as signage, signals and pavement markings,
            2. Street modifications,
            3. And route modifications.
The first alternative of traffic calming implementation consists of the usage of signs, signals and
pavement markings which are designed to provide information to drivers. Speed limit signs, yield signs,
roadway markings, and traffic signals are all examples of traffic calming measures. Figure 4-17 shows an
example of how pavement striping can be used to slow drivers before entering a crosswalk.




                                                          Figure 4-17. Traffic Calming, Crosswalk Striping
The second method of traffic calming involves the application of street modifications. Street
modifications are calming tools that change vertical or horizontal physical characteristics of the
roadway. Speed bumps, speed tables, islands, and bulb outs are examples of traffic calming street
modifications.
Speed tables are prominently used as street modification traffic calming devices. Speed tables come in a
variety of forms, from raised asphalt with prominent pavement markings, to alternate materials such as
stamped concrete, cobblestone, or brick pavers. Speed table surfaces are generally about three inches
higher than the road surface, with “ramps” of about six feet in length on each side from the road surface
to the table surface. The horizontal deflection of the speed tables, raised crosswalk, and overall
increased visibility of the treatment causes drivers to reduce speeds. A conceptual drawing of a
mid-block raised crosswalk is shown in Figure 4-18.




4-16                                                                                           November 2019
                                                                                           Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                            Draper City




                                                              Figure 4-18. Traffic Calming, Raised Crosswalk
                                                                     Source: Traffic Calming: State of the Practice

Another example of a street modification used for traffic calming is a center island or median below. These
islands are typically landscaped, concrete-raised medians in the middle of the roadway. The function of
a center island is to narrow an intersection’s approach so that drivers are compelled to slow down and
exercise caution with their movements. Center islands are typically more effective when they are
shorter in length, as opposed to longer medians that separate traffic flow. The following photo shows a
an existing center median on 65 East, south of Highland Drive.




                        Traffic Calming, Center Island, 65 East, south of Highland Drive




November 2019                                                                                                     4-17
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



Curb extensions, or bulb outs, are another example of a street modification used for traffic calming. Bulb
outs narrow a driver’s visual field at an intersection so that caution is exercised as the driver proceeds
through an intersection. Curb extensions reduce the pavement width at an intersection, thus providing
safer crossings for pedestrian and bicyclists by decreasing the length needed to traverse the roadway.
Striped crosswalks can be used in conjunction with bulb outs to further increase driver awareness. An
example of an intersection with bulb outs is shown in Figure 4-19.




                                                                   Figure 4-19. Traffic Calming, Bulb Outs
                                                                  Source: Traffic Calming: State of the Practice

Route modifications are the third alternative of traffic calming methodology. One-way streets, turn
prohibitions, closures, and diverters are examples of route modifications. Route modifications can also
be used to prevent cut-through traffic within a development or parking lot. Route modifications differ
from the first and second traffic calming measures, as they are used to alter traffic routes. In contrast,
informational measures and street modifications focus on adjusting driver behavior.




4-18                                                                                              November 2019
                                                                                  Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                   Draper City




                                  Typical Residential Street in Draper City

4.3.3           Traffic Calming Device Implementation Process
Draper City is currently drafting a traffic calming policy. Future decisions should refer to this policy.
Meanwhile, the process for traffic calming device applications is outlined below.
   1. Conduct an engineering study to determine if a traffic calming device is necessary. The study
       should reference and analyze speed data, traffic data, and accident data. Required traffic
       engineering infrastructure, such as stop signs, yield signs, advanced warning signs, and striping
       consistent with the MUTCD should be applied prior to any recommendation for traffic calming.
   2. Obtain citizen input for the implementation of potential traffic calming devices. Draper City
       should develop policies for engineering studies which may require the use of traffic calming
       devices based on speed thresholds, volume thresholds, and related data.
   3. Obtain local community and City Council approval. Draper City should develop policies for
       annual and case-by-case funding applications and related implementation.
   4. Implement appropriate traffic calming device.
   5. Conduct studies to determine if the traffic calming device is effective. Factors to consider when
       determining the effectiveness of the device should include speed, traffic and accident data. Such
       studies should be performed before and after the recommended action. Neighborhood
       meetings should also be held to gauge the local opinion of the success or failure of the
       recommended action.

4.3.4           Traffic Calming Considerations
The following items should be considered when implementing a traffic calming device:
    •   All signage, pavement markings, and traffic control devices should conform to MUTCD
        standards. Where traffic calming measures are not specifically identified in the Manual,
        advanced warning and guide signs must meet appropriate standards for size, shape, etc.
    •   Consider frequently occurring weather events when determining the appropriate traffic calming
        device. For example, snow events in Draper City may hinder visibility of traffic calming devices.
        In contrast, some traffic calming devices may interfere with snow plowing efforts.



November 2019                                                                                            4-19
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



       •      Aesthetically pleasing streetscaping will “soften” the appearance of a traffic calming device, and
              lessen controversy and opposition associated with its installation.
       •      Consider minimum and maximum spacing intervals of traffic calming devices that will be used to
              deter speeding. If speed reduction traffic calming devices are installed at large intervals,
              speeding is likely to occur between the devices. Traffic calming devices should be spaced at
              intervals to deter vehicles from accelerating between devices.
       •      Consider feedback from emergency responders before installing proposed traffic calming
              devices. For example, a traffic calming device may increase travel time between a life-
              threatening emergency call and response. Emergency agencies can provide insight for
              alternative access points, trade-offs, and preferred options.
       •      Consider traffic calming measures when designing new developments. Several traffic calming
              devices are part of large retrofit efforts. Long, straight road corridors with limited landscaping
              may foster higher speeds and are counter to traffic calming goals. Retrofitted traffic calming
              actions should be designed to eliminate traffic issues, and not relocate problems to a parallel
              path.
       •      Know that traffic calming methodology is continually evolving. Consult literature containing up
              to date procedures and ideals before developing a traffic calming plan. Published manuals and
              procedures are regularly produced by affiliations such as ITE and the Transportation Research
              Board.

4.4               Transit
Public mass transit options are a key component to any city’s transportation plan. Public transit provides
transportation options to many segments of the community. Among these are the young, elderly and
disabled. In recent years, light rail and commuter rail have been added to the travel options available to
Draper City citizens.

4.4.1             Commuter Rail
FrontRunner commuter rail service opened between Salt Lake City and Provo in December 2012 and
runs through the western part of Draper City. Draper City has one Frontrunner station at approximately
13000 South and Frontrunner Blvd, near the Vista Station development. The WFRC RTP identifies a
project to double track portions of Frontrunner in Salt Lake County with funding in Phase 2 (2031-2040).

4.4.2             Light Rail
The TRAX Blue Line extension into Draper City began operation in August 2013 and Draper City is served
by three TRAX stations at 11400 South, Kimballs Lane and Draper City Town Center, where the TRAX
Blue Line currently ends.
There are multiple potential light rail expansion options for Draper City. There is further planning
needed to determine where these transit lines will be located, when they will be built, and where
funding sources will be found. Future development, including the prison site redevelopment may
influence where these transit lines are located.
As mentioned in Chapter 3, the WFRC RTP details a light rail extension through Draper City with funding
planned for phase 3 (2041-2050). The RTP identifies two possible alignments for the extension. The first



4-20                                                                                                  November 2019
                                                                                     Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                      Draper City



alignment is to extend the TRAX Blue Line from its current terminus at Draper Town Center, south into
Utah County. The extension would likely feature two additional TRAX stations located near Highland
Drive/13800 South and 14600 South just east of I-15.
The second potential alignment would branch off from the TRAX Blue Line near downtown Sandy, cross
west of I-15, and parallel I-15 south through Draper and the prison site and then cross I-15 again and
continue south around the point of the mountain to Lehi.
Future analysis will determine which option for a TRAX extension is preferred. However, from a high-
level, each option maintains certain advantages. Building the TRAX extension from Sandy would provide
direct transit access to the prison site.
This would also negate noise and railroad
crossing concerns associated with the
extension alignment from Draper Town
Center, but would leave that section of
Draper without local transit access.
Additionally, the Sandy extension
alignment would have impacts to
infrastructure west of I-15 whereas the
Draper Town Center extension would be
constructed within an existing rail
corridor.

                                                                   Sandy TRAX Station
4.4.3           Bus Routes
Bus routes are another key transportation component in the Draper MTP. The core bus routes identified
in the WFRC RTP will enhance the ability of Draper residents and workers to connect to key destinations.
These routes will upgrade the current intermittent bus service to dedicated, frequent service.
Additionally, the core service routes will enhance the ability of stations to connect surrounding land uses
to the transit investment corridors of the city.

4.5             Pedestrian/Bicycle
A Master Transportation Plan must outline future conditions for vehicles and transit, but an equally
important component of people’s ability to get from one point to another involves non-motorized
travel, specifically walking and bicycling. In Draper, other modes such as equestrian and even hang
gliders are used for movement, but these other modes are generally used recreationally, and while they
should be mentioned, they are not the primary “drivers” of this plan. Walkability, which describes the
quality of walking conditions, including safety, comfort and convenience; is very much desired in Draper
City. As such, the pedestrian and bicycle component of this plan offers solutions and suggestions to
increase walkability and bikeability.
Draper City’s Parks and Trails Committee has developed a Trails Master Plan which reserves paths,
primarily off road, for recreational use. The MTP seeks to provide links between residences and those
trails, primarily on the planned roadway. A system of bike routes exists beyond Draper City’s borders
which must also be linked to the MTP. Finally, to increase walkability for local, non-recreational trips,
the MTP must designate routes for biking and walking within the city.




November 2019                                                                                               4-21
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                                      Regional Trail in Draper City

The Porter Rockwell, Draper City Canal, and Jordan River Parkway Trail provide paved regional trails in
Draper City. These trails connect vital areas of the city and also provide critical connections to
neighboring cities. These paved trails are key components to Draper City’s multi-modal transportation
plan.
Different users of the transportation system require different facilities. Bicycle lanes offer a level of
protection to bicycle users and often serve both recreational and transportation users. Bicycle lanes may
be appropriate for a range of users including youth. Bicycle routes offer a lower level of protection and
typically serve more experienced bicycle users. Although the bicycle system is an important component
of the Draper City transportation
system, it is acknowledged that
added efforts that focus specifically
on the bicycle component of the
plan are needed. The formation of a
bicycle committee or task force is a
recommended action to review and
adjust the details provided in this
plan. The addition of new bicycle
lanes will support CTC goal number
two; to provide multi-modal
transportation opportunities.                        Bike Lane on 1300 East at Draper City Park




4-22                                                                                         November 2019
                                                                                              Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                               Draper City



Bike lanes are or will be included on the following roads:

                       East/West                                                North/South
                      12400 South                                         Fort Street (north section)
                      13200 South                                              Highland Drive
                      13800 South                                                  700 East
                   Traverse Ridge Road                                            1300 East
                      11400 South                                            Lone Peak Parkway
                      14600 South                                      Minuteman Drive (south section)


Bike routes are or will be included on the following roads:

                       East/West                                                North/South
                      12300 South                                                  300 East
           12400 South (downtown plan section)                            Fort Street (south section)
                                                                       700 West/Galena Park Boulevard




                                             Example of a Bike Route

Figure 4-20 represents the plan for bike lanes, bike routes and regional paved trails throughout the city.
Full diagrams of bike facilities and trails are found within the Draper City Parks, Recreation, and Trails
Master Plan and are incorporated into this document by reference.




November 2019                                                                                                        4-23
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                                               Figure 4-20. Master Transportation Plan, Bike Component

4.6           Crosswalks
Pedestrian crossings are a critical part of the transportation infrastructure since they represent a direct,
physical interface between drivers, bicyclists, and pedestrians. The recent national increase in
pedestrian fatalities has resulted in more focus on preventing pedestrian deaths on the roadway.
Meanwhile, crosswalk amenities continue to evolve providing engineers and planners with more options
for crosswalk design.
Crosswalk design for signalized intersections is generally consistent from location to location since the
traffic signal infrastructure directs right-of-way for pedestrian and vehicle movement. Roundabouts


4-24                                                                                            November 2019
                                                                                            Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                             Draper City



typically feature marked and signed crossings on the approaches to the roundabout. Unsignalized
intersections may or may not feature marked or signed crosswalks, depending on traffic volume,
pedestrian volume and sight distance. Low-volume, residential intersections typically do not feature
marked crosswalks. At signalized intersections, unsignalized intersections, or roundabouts where
additional pedestrian amenities are desired, advanced warning signs and pavement markings are the
typical treatments.
Unlike the more standardized applications for signalized intersections and roundabouts, midblock
crossings require a more nuanced and context-sensitive approach. Midblock crossings represent a
greater hazard to pedestrian safety than intersection crossings since there are usually fewer, or less
obvious, cues to alert drivers and pedestrians to a crossing location. There is also greater flexibility
regarding the types of pedestrian treatments that can be used at a midblock crossing. However, it is
important to match the appropriate treatments to the characteristics of the crossing. Otherwise, the
treatments may be ineffective at reducing safety risks, and in some cases, the treatments may increase
safety risks by lowering users’ sense of caution.

4.6.1           Crosswalk Treatments
Pedestrian crossing treatments represent many forms and continue to evolve as new concepts develop.
Marked crosswalks may need to be supplemented by additional treatments depending on conditions.
Table 4-3 provides a summary list of several treatment types. The list is not intended to be
comprehensive but contains enough types of treatments to start an investigation of what may be
appropriate for a given location. Some treatments overlap with traffic calming alternatives discussed
previously. Further guidance on selecting the appropriate treatment types is provide in the next section.


                                 Table 4-3. Sample of Pedestrian Crossing Treatments

                      Category                                            Treatment Type
                                                                    Signs adjacent to crosswalk
                                                                    Advance warning signs
                  Static Signs
                                                                    Overhead warning signs
                                                                    In-street, movable signs
                  Active Signs                                      Signs with constant warning flashers
                                                                    Yield lines
                  Pavement Markings
                                                                    Graduated transverse lines
                                                                    HAWK signal
                  Traffic Control Signals                           TOUCAN signal
                                                                    Pedestrian traffic signal
                                                                    Curb extensions
                                                                    Refuge islands
                  Geometric Changes
                                                                    Raised crosswalk
                                                                    Roadway narrowing
                  Miscellaneous                                     Crossing flags




November 2019                                                                                                      4-25
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




4.6.2             Considerations for Crosswalks at Uncontrolled Locations
The following considerations should be taken into account when implementing a midblock crosswalk, a
crosswalk at an uncontrolled intersection, or investigating additional treatments to existing midblock
and uncontrolled intersection crosswalks:
       •      Crosswalk treatments should be consistent with pedestrian treatments at nearby, similar
              locations to enhance driver and pedestrian expectations.
       •      Crosswalk treatments should correlate with the key characteristics of a crossing: pedestrian
              demand, pedestrian user types, vehicle demand, vehicle speeds, crossing width, sight distance,
              other roadway geometric features.
       •      An inappropriately designed crossing can lead to an increased risk of pedestrian crashes.
               Higher vehicle travel speeds narrow the driver’s cone of vision leading to reduce ability to
                  detect and react to pedestrians.
               Wider roads limit a driver’s awareness of activity on the edges of the crosswalk.

               Momentum and expectation have a direct correlation with driver and pedestrian
                  compliance of a crossing.
               Auto-dominated environments require substantial treatments to achieve good driver
                  compliance.
               Roadways with more than three lanes or vehicle operating speeds greater than 35 miles per
                  hour are generally a very poor location for a simple, painted midblock crosswalk.
       •      Adding a crosswalk is not guaranteed to have a positive effect and, in some cases, no crosswalk
              is the appropriate action.
               When crosswalks are underutilized, drivers become conditioned to ignoring the crosswalk
                   and the ability of the crosswalk treatments to alert drivers to a potential hazard diminishes.
               Meanwhile, the lack of a crosswalk can be a cue to pedestrians to take appropriate caution
                   in areas where they are not likely to be expected or perceived by drivers even if there was a
                   crosswalk.
               Generally, when crossings do not support a minimum of 20 crossings during the peak hour,
                   adding a crosswalk is not a recommended treatment.

4.6.3             Additional Resources
Additional resources to aid crosswalk design and treatment selection are available from National
Association of City Transportation Officials (NACTO) design guides and the MUTCD. National Cooperative
Highway Research Program (NCHRP) Report 562: Improving Pedestrian Safety at Unsignalized
Intersections provides a data-driven approach to determining whether a crossing is appropriate for a
location and what kind of treatments best support safety of the crossing. Requirements and warrants
for school crossings are found in Part 7 of the Utah MUTCD.

4.7               Truck Routes
Increasing safety, reducing noise levels and reducing pavement impact are all reasons cities restrict truck
or heavy vehicle traffic to certain routes. Restrictions may include weight limits, minimal height clearance
design standards or prohibitions on streets that primarily serve recreational or residential land uses.




4-26                                                                                                 November 2019
                                                                                Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                 Draper City



Draper City adopted a truck route ordinance in March 2009 (Draper City Ordinance 879). The map below
(Figure 4-21) represents the preferred truck routes and truck restrictions according to Ordinance 879.
Draper City has expressed concerns regarding the steep grade on both Rambling Road and Bangerter
Parkway; and thus, these routes are not designated for trucks. As for the designated truck routes, the
city should develop a truck route sign plan to direct heavy vehicles.




                                                                            Figure 4-21. Truck Routes




November 2019                                                                                          4-27
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




4.8           Connectivity
Though many of the connectivity barriers affecting Draper City are due to physical terrain features, there
are areas of opportunity to improve connectivity at both the regional and community scales. Some of
these opportunities require coordination with other agencies, such as neighboring cities, UDOT, UP, or
UTA. Draper City should continue to foster working relationship with these entities and proactively seek
opportunities to eliminate connectivity barriers.
One of the opportunities to improve regional-scale connectivity is completing Highland Drive from the
Draper City boundary to 9800 South in Sandy City. Constructing the Highland Drive gap would complete
a regional route in eastern Salt Lake County stretching from 2100 South Salt Lake City to I-15 at
14600 South in Draper City. The Highland Drive connection from Draper City to 9800 South has
traditionally been a high priority for Draper City and could help alleviate traffic pressures on parallel
routes like Wasatch Boulevard and 1300 East.
At a community scale, Draper City should stay involved with the redevelopment of the prison site to
ensure the constructed roadway network supports good internal circulation and access to major
highways. The future I-15 crossing at 13800 South identified in this plan, will facilitate traffic flowing
between the prison redevelopment site and other parts of Draper City to bypass the already busy
I-15 interchange at Bangerter Highway.
The lack of east-west connectivity from Fort Street to 1300 East between Pioneer Road and 13800 South
will be aided by three roadway projects in Phase 1 of this plan. These connections will bring east-west
connectivity on par with neighboring area between 300 East and Fort Street. The frequency of east-west
connections between 300 East and Fort Street do not appear to cause any undue harm to the
transportation system. In contrast, the connectivity allows traffic to disperse onto several streets rather
than concentrate on any single road. It is expected that the area between Fort Street to 1300 East would
see similar benefits with improved connectivity.
Draper City should coordinate with Sandy City regarding the removal of the roadway barrier on
Pineridge Road. Removing the barrier would improve local north-south connectivity and allow
residences to access nearby businesses without putting additional traffic pressure on the Draper City
Parkway/1300 East intersection.
At Draper City TRAX stations, nearby paved trails augment local walk connectivity between the stations
and local land uses. The Frontrunner station offers good walk access to several major office buildings.
However, the neighborhoods east of the station are underserved. Adding a pedestrian bridge over the
Frontrunner lines and the UP lines would eliminate the circuitous walking path to access the station for
these neighborhoods.




4-28                                                                                              November 2019
                                                                                     Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                      Draper City




5.              CAPITAL FACILITIES PLAN
5.1             Capital Facilities Plan
The Capital Facilities Plan (CFP) identifies projects that are anticipated be needed by a particular time,
and a planning level cost estimate for each improvement. The recommended improvements are
separated into Phase I (2018 - 2024 years), Phase II (2025 - 2034) and Phase III (2034 - 2040). These
improvements are for collector streets and above. Local street improvements that may be required are
not included in the CFP. Trails and pedestrian improvements are also not included in the CFP.
Maintenance projects are also not included in the CFP but are often addressed in roadway
reconstruction which may accompany road widening or other improvements. Draper City’s adoption of
a financially constrained Capital Improvement Plan and related development reimbursement policies
included in Section 5-15-020 of the Draper City Municipal Code (Public Improvement Installation and
Financing) are not affected by the recommendations of this plan.
Priorities identified in this
Master Transportation Plan
reflect those of CTC created
by Draper City to guide the
development of the plan as
well as Draper City staff.
Priorities and phases
defined by this plan are
provided for information
only and the City may
accelerate or decelerate
transportation
improvements as necessary
to reflect the continuous
adjustment of priorities.
                                                        I-15 and Pony Express Road
Cost estimates were
developed assuming full reconstruction of the existing pavement section where widening was needed.
The costs include road base, asphalt, curb/gutter, park strip and sidewalk. Engineering costs, utilities and
contingencies were also included in the cost estimates. The cost estimates are in 2018 dollars. An
inflated cost based upon the phased construction schedule is also presented. Details of the cost
estimates are included in the Appendix.
Figure 5-1 is the map of the planned improvements by phase. Table 5-1 lists the projects by phase. In
addition to phase 1-3 projects, the figure and table include an undetermined phase with one project
encompassing the prison site. This project will represent a need for improved road infrastructure here,
with the understanding that the prison site will develop under State direction outside of the City’s direct
influence. Phasing and exact road alignments are yet unknown and will be the responsibility of the
development authority.




November 2019                                                                                                5-1
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                             Figure 5-1. Improvements by Phase




5-2                                                November 2019
                                                   Master Transportation Plan
                                                                    Draper City




                Table 5-1. Improvements by Phase




November 2019                                                              5-3
                                                                                      Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                       Draper City




6.              AREAS OF CONCERN
6.1             Incorporate Existing Area Plans into the Master
                Transportation Plan
6.1.1           Draperville and Downtown
Draper City has been pro-active in making supplemental plans for sub-areas of its city. By gathering
stakeholders and by examining specific areas, the City is able to simplify the issues and obtain action
items to address unique issues. By incorporating aspects of its Downtown District Zoning Ordinance, this
Master Transportation Plan includes Draperville ideas and requirements for roadways critical to historic
Draper City. By outlining various local and collector street standards, this plan helps to preserve the
City’s unique identity and heritage.

6.1.2           Highland Drive and Traverse Ridge Road
Another supplemental plan, the “Analysis and Recommendations for Street Network” by the Utah Local
Technical Assistance Program, December 2004, has been utilized for Draper City’s transportation
planning. In an effort to address the issues surrounding Highland Drive and Traverse Ridge Road, this
report and “The Changing Economic Structure and Current Baseline of Draper City” (September 2006),
were utilized.
Connecting Highland Drive to the north is a high priority capital improvement identified in this Master
Transportation Plan. Funding will be derived from areas outside of Draper, but the City’s support to
UDOT and efforts to assist Sandy City as the Environmental Impact Statement are prepared are critical
to this project’s success.
The evolving cross section alignments of Highland Drive and Traverse Ridge are an additional concern to
Draper City. The street standards defined in this plan address safety and consistency issues introduced
as these two vital corridors are built. Highland Drive has three cross sections, which will vary in median
and side treatment, based on the nature of the land uses through which it traverses. Traverse Ridge
Road, classified as a four lane Minor Arterial, is slated for improvements as it joins Highland Drive. This
will address safety and increased usage issues in the future.

6.2             Signals, Roundabouts and Special Intersections
The need for roundabouts and traffic signals will increase as traffic volume throughout Draper City
continues to grow. The installation of traffic signals is guided by MUTCD signal warrants. These warrants
include traffic volume thresholds as well as safety, pedestrian, and “system” warrants which must be
considered prior to the installation of a traffic signal. Figure 6-1 displays the locations of possible future
intersection controls based on signal warrants. Signal locations were identified using recommendations
from the 2011 Master Plan update, city plans, and discussions with city staff. Draper City should resist
the implementation of traffic signals or roundabouts at locations not identified in this plan but make
decisions on a case-by-case basis as issues arise.




November 2019                                                                                                 6-1
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City




                                                Figure 6-1. Current and Future Controlled Intersections

6.2.1         Roundabouts
In recent years, Draper City has invested in roundabouts for intersections where four-way stops create
delays but where signals were not desirable. In some cases, intersections were re-constructed to
accommodate new roundabouts and in other cases new development was required to construct
roundabout intersections as part of their street network.




6-2                                                                                         November 2019
                                                                                     Master Transportation Plan
                                                                                                      Draper City



Studies have shown that roundabouts are effective at reducing crash rates as well as delay when
compared to four-way stop signs or low volume traffic signals. The primary advantage of roundabouts is
that they permit low speed travel of all vehicles as opposed to stopping the travel of half (or more) of
approaching vehicles. While there are numerous examples of multi-lane roundabouts across the United
States and Europe, single lane roundabouts represent the most common application and the limit of
what exists in Draper City today. Generally, the capacity of a single lane roundabout is approximately
3,500 vehicles per hour which would be indicative of the intersection of a street serving up to
20,000 vehicles per day (both directions) intersecting with a street serving up to 15,000 vehicles per day.
When volumes on either leg of the intersection exceed this level, roundabouts often loose effectiveness
and can result in increased delay and/or crash rates when compared to conventional traffic signals.
Roundabouts represent an effective traffic control solution which should be continued and expanded in
Draper City. The decision to install a signal versus roundabout should be based on an engineering study
on a case-by-case basis. Such studies should consider the capacity of roundabouts versus signals, the
nature of drivers (local drivers will be more familiar with unique applications), and specific design details
such as right turn lanes to optimize roundabout success. This plan has identified potential candidates for
roundabouts or traffic signals as well as strict recommendations for locations of future traffic signals. It
should be understood that the installation of either a signal or a roundabout will create delays to drivers
and concentrate the location of crashes. For this reason, application of traffic signals or roundabouts
should always be based on engineering studies.

6.2.2           Special Intersections
At high volume intersections between Arterials, or Arterials with Collectors, traffic volumes may warrant
additional turning lanes. These intersections would require widening to accommodate exclusive
right-turn lanes or dual left-turn lanes. In most cases, the need for additional turning lanes is
development driven. Although the exact nature of future development is not always known, the
following intersections may require continued monitoring or evaluation to determine whether
additional turn lanes or other modifications are needed to accommodate growth.

6.2.2.1         1300 East & Wayne’s World Drive/Highland Drive
The close proximity of the intersections of Wayne’s World Drive (13800 South) and Highland Drive along
1300 East has been a historic concern for Draper City. The close proximity of the intersections forces
drivers to make multiple decisions and lane shifts in a confined area. The presence of a major trail
crossing adds to the complexity and safety concerns.
However, the roadway geometry was recently revised to add extra turn lanes. Modifications were also
made to crosswalk locations and crosswalk marking schemes. Additionally, since the last MTP, Draper
City extended 13200 South to Highland Drive creating another railroad crossing between 1300 East and
Boulter Street. The new 13200 South railroad crossing has the potential to alleviate the traffic demand
at the 1300 East crossing. Draper City should continue to monitor conditions in this area to determine
whether the recent changes have improved conditions or if additional modifications are valuable.




November 2019                                                                                                6-3
Master Transportation Plan
Draper City



6.2.2.2       1300 East & Pioneer Drive
Historically, the 1300 East & Pioneer Drive roundabout has been predicted to require a future
conversion to a traffic signal. In recent years, traffic volumes have remained relatively stable.
Additionally, the potential extension of Highland Drive could significantly shift traffic volumes away from
1300 East. A decision to remove the roundabout should not be made until congestion shows a sustained
increase and the future of the Highland Drive extension becomes more clear.

6.2.2.3       Bangerter Parkway & 13800 South
As one of the few accesses to both I-15 and Bangerter Parkway, the Bangerter Parkway & 13800 South
intersection is a key point in the Draper City transportation network. Additional turn lanes and through
lanes will be required with the planned minor arterial cross-sections for the west leg and the south leg.
In particular, the planned 13800 South crossing of I-15 will provide direct access to the prison
redevelopment area which may directly add traffic volumes to the intersection.




6-4                                                                                            November 2019
Appendices
CFP Phase 1 Cost Estimates

CFP Phase 2 Cost Estimates

CFP Phase 3 cost Estimates

           Safety Analysis
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


13800 South
300 East to Fort Street                                          Length of Project (Ft)           3100
Widen to three lane major collector                                               (Mi)            0.59

Item Description                                 Unit    Quantity        Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                      LUMP           1        3.0%                         $74,700
     MOBILIZATION                                LUMP           1        5.0%                        $124,500
     SWPPP                                       LUMP           1        1.0%                         $24,900
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                         LUMP           1        8.0%                        $199,200
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                 LUMP           1        0.5%                         $12,500
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                             LUMP           1        5.0%                        $124,500
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                    LUMP           1        5.0%                        $124,500
     MAJOR COLLECTOR RDWAY                       LF          3100        $377                      $1,168,700
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                     CU YD       4400         $27                        $118,800
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                          MI           0.6    $450,000                        $264,205
     BOX CULVERT EXTENSION                       LF            50      $8,200                        $410,000
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                  LF          3100     $100.00                        $310,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                           LF          3100       $4.00                         $12,400
     NEW STREET LIGHTING                         MI           0.6    $350,000                        $205,492
                                                            ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                       $3,174,397
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                               AC
       DEVELOPED                                 AC                0.4        $705,000              $282,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS (GARAGE)          EACH                1         $25,000               $25,000
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                      EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)    LUMP                      15%                       $46,050
                                                         RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                      $353,050
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $3,527,447
                                                             CONTINGENCY (30%)                     $1,058,234
                                                          PROJECT SUBTOTAL                      $4,585,681
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%         $458,568.11
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%         $366,854.48

                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $5,411,104




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


1300 East
Nashi Lane to Highland Drive                                     Length of Project (Ft)           2100
Widen to three lane major collector                                               (Mi)            0.40

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%                $38,500
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%                $64,100
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                $12,900
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%               $102,500
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                 $6,500
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            5.0%                $64,100
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP               1            5.0%                $64,100
     MAJOR COLLECTOR RDWAY                        LF             2100             $377               $791,700
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          3400              $27                $91,800
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               0.4        $450,000               $178,977
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             2100          $100.00               $210,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             2100            $4.00                 $8,400


                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $1,633,577
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC               0.6        $500,000               $300,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                      $45,000
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                     $345,000
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $1,978,577
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                   $593,573
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $2,572,150
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%          $257,215.05
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%          $205,772.04

                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $3,035,138




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Lone Peak Parkway
12650 South to 12300 South                                       Length of Project (Ft)           2200
Widen to five lane minor arterial                                                 (Mi)            0.42

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%                $56,000
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%                $93,400
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                $18,700
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%               $149,300
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                 $9,400
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            5.0%                $93,400
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP               1            5.0%                $93,400
     MINOR ARTERIAL (FIVE LANE) RDWAY             LF             2200             $519             $1,141,800
     NEW 10' WIDE ASPHALT TRAIL                   LF             2200              $20                $44,000
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          3300              $27                $89,100
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               0.4        $450,000               $187,500
     SIGNAL MODIFICATIONS                         EACH               1        $175,000               $175,000
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             2200          $100.00               $220,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             2200            $4.00                 $8,800

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $2,379,800
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC               1.2        $800,000               $960,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                      $144,000
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                    $1,104,000
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $3,483,800
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,045,140
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $4,528,940
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%             $452,894
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%             $362,315

                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $5,344,149




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Lone Peak Parkway
11400 South to 12200 South                                        Length of Project (Ft)           4800
Widen to five lane minor arterial                                                  (Mi)            0.91

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity        Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP                1            3.0%                $42,800
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP                1            5.0%                $71,200
     SWPPP                                        LUMP                1            1.0%                $14,300
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP                1            8.0%               $113,900
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP                1            0.5%                 $7,200
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP                1            5.0%                $71,200
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP                1            5.0%                $71,200
     PAVEMENT WIDENING                            LF              4800              $73               $352,543
     NEW 10' WIDE ASPHALT TRAIL                   LF              2500              $20                $50,000
     CONCRETE CURB & GUTTER                       LF              7500              $17               $127,500
     CONCRETE SIDEWALK                            SF             45000            $5.00               $225,000
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI                0.9        $450,000               $409,091
     SIGNAL MODIFICATIONS                         EACH                         $175,000                     $0
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF              2400             $100               $240,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF              4800               $4                $19,200

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                   $1,815,134
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC             0.911       $1,306,800             $1,191,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                       $178,650
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                     $1,369,650
                                                                           SUBTOTAL              $3,184,784
                                                                  CONTINGENCY (30%)                   $955,435
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                     $4,140,219
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                   10%             $414,022
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                       8%             $331,218

                                                                   PROJECT TOTAL                 $4,885,459




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


700 West
11400 South to 12300 South                                       Length of Project (Ft)           6400
Residential Collector                                                             (Mi)            1.21

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%               $102,500
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%               $170,800
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                $34,200
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%               $273,200
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                $17,100
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            5.0%               $170,800
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP               1            5.0%               $170,800
     RESIDENTIAL MINOR COLLECTOR RDWAY            LF             6400             $308             $1,971,200
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          8600              $27               $232,200
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               1.2        $450,000               $545,455
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             6400          $100.00               $640,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             6400            $4.00                $25,600

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $4,353,855
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC              0.32        $375,000               $120,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                      $18,000
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                     $138,000
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $4,491,855
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,347,556
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $5,839,411
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%          $583,941.09
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%          $467,152.87


                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $6,890,505




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Bangerter Parkway
13800 South to Highland Drive                                              Length of Project (Ft)          6700
Re-stripe to four lane arterial, new right-turn lanes                                       (Mi)           1.27

Item Description                                           Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                                LUMP            1               2.0%               $16,900
     MOBILIZATION                                          LUMP            1               5.0%               $42,200
     SWPPP                                                 LUMP            1               1.0%                $8,500
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                                   LUMP            1               8.0%               $67,400
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                           LUMP            1               0.5%                $4,300
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                                       LUMP            1               4.0%               $33,700
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                              LUMP            1               5.0%               $42,200
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM MODIFICATIONS                      LUMP            1                10%               $84,300
     MILL AND OVERLAY (1.5")                               LF           6700             $66.00              $442,200
     NEW 12' TURN LANE, INCL SIDEWALK, C&G                 LF           1040            $165.00              $171,600
     REMOVE CONCRETE (SIDEWALK)                            SQ YD         700              $9.00                $6,300
     REMOVE CURB                                           LF           1100              $4.00                $4,400
     4-INCH SOLID WHITE STRIPE                             LF          13400              $2.50               $33,500
     4-INCH SKIP WHITE STRIPE                              LF          13400              $2.00               $26,800
     4-INCH SOLID AND BROKEN YELLOW LINE                   LF          13400              $2.00               $26,800
     PERMANENT SIGNING                                     LF           6700                 $4               $26,800
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                            LF           1040               $100              $104,000

                                                                      ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                      $1,141,900
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                         AC
       DEVELOPED                                           AC              0.06        $800,000               $50,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                             EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                                EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)              LUMP                      15%                       $7,500
                                                                   RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                      $57,500
                                                                                   SUBTOTAL              $1,199,400
                                                                       CONTINGENCY (30%)                     $359,820
                                                                    PROJECT SUBTOTAL                     $1,559,220
OTHER
         ENGINEERING                                                                          10%         $155,922.00
         CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                              8%         $124,737.60

                                                                            PROJECT TOTAL                $1,839,880




                                                  Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Highland Drive
I-15 to Bangerter Parkway                                        Length of Project (Ft)           3500
Widen to five lane arterial                                                       (Mi)            0.66

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%                $24,100
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%                $40,200
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                 $8,100
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%                $64,300
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                 $4,100
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            5.0%                $40,200
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP               1            5.0%                $40,200
     ARTERIAL                                     LF             3500             $572             $2,002,000
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          5200              $27               $140,400
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               0.7        $450,000               $298,295
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             3500          $100.00               $350,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             3500            $4.00                $14,000

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $3,025,895
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC               2.3        $775,000             $1,782,500
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                      $267,375
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                    $2,049,875
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $5,075,770
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,522,731
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $6,598,502
OTHER
         ENGINEERING                                                                 10%          $659,850.16
         CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                     8%          $527,880.13

                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $7,786,232




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


13400 South
Fort Street to 1300 East                                         Length of Project (Ft)           3900
Minor Collector                                                                   (Mi)            0.74

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%                $63,200
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%               $105,300
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                $21,100
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%               $168,400
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                $10,600
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            5.0%               $105,300
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP               1            5.0%               $105,300
     RESIDENTIAL MINOR COLLECTOR RDWAY            LF             3900             $308             $1,201,200
     NEW 10' WIDE ASPHALT TRAIL                   LF             1800              $20                $36,000
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          4800              $27               $129,600
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               0.7        $450,000               $332,386
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             3900          $100.00               $390,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             3900            $4.00                $15,600

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $2,683,986
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC              0.75        $800,000               $600,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                      $90,000
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                     $690,000
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $3,373,986
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,012,196
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $4,386,182
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%          $438,618.23
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%          $350,894.58


                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $5,175,695




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


12650 South
Approximately 1010 East to Willow Creek                                   Length of Project (Ft)           1300
Build local street connection (Valley Local Collector)                                     (Mi)            0.25

Item Description                                           Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                                LUMP               1            3.0%                $30,900
     MOBILIZATION                                          LUMP               1            5.0%                $51,500
     SWPPP                                                 LUMP               1            1.0%                $10,300
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                                   LUMP               1            8.0%                $82,400
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                           LUMP               1            0.5%                 $5,200
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                                       LUMP               1            5.0%                $51,500
     CLEARING AND GRUBBING                                 LUMP            0.25            5.0%                $51,500
     VALLEY LOCAL STREET                                   LF             1300             $271               $352,300
     NEW 10' WIDE ASPHALT TRAIL                            LF             1300              $20                $26,000
     NEW BRIDGE/BRIDGE WIDENING                            SQ FT          2700             $150               $405,000
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                                    MI              0.25        $450,000               $110,795
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                            LF             1300          $100.00               $130,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                                     LF             1300            $4.00                 $5,200

                                                                          ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $1,312,595
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                         AC               0.1         $17,000                 $1,700
       DEVELOPED                                           AC                 1        $900,000               $900,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                             EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                                EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)              LUMP                      15%                      $135,255
                                                                   RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                    $1,036,955
                                                                                   SUBTOTAL              $2,349,550
                                                                          CONTINGENCY (30%)                   $704,865
                                                                     PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $3,054,416
OTHER
         ENGINEERING                                                                          10%          $305,441.56
         CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                              8%          $244,353.25


                                                                           PROJECT TOTAL                 $3,604,210




                                                 Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


11950 South
State Street to 150 East                                         Length of Project (Ft)           1400
New Local Collector                                                               (Mi)            0.27

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%                $21,300
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%                $35,400
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                 $7,100
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%                $56,600
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                 $3,600
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            5.0%                $35,400
     CLEARING AND GRUBBING                        LUMP            0.27            5.0%                $35,400
     COMMERCIAL MINOR COLLECTOR RDWAY             LF             1400             $316               $442,400
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               0.3        $450,000               $119,318
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             1400          $100.00               $140,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             1400            $4.00                 $5,600

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                   $902,118
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC              0.08      $1,200,000                $96,000
       DEVELOPED                                  AC
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                      $14,400
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                     $110,400
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $1,012,518
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                   $303,755
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $1,316,274
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%          $131,627.36
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%          $105,301.89

                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $1,553,203




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 1 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Walden Lane
Northrup Cove to Cindy Lane                                               Length of Project (Ft)           1200
Build local street connection (Valley Local Collector)                                     (Mi)            0.23

Item Description                                           Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                                LUMP               1            3.0%                $24,700
     MOBILIZATION                                          LUMP               1            5.0%                $41,200
     SWPPP                                                 LUMP               1            1.0%                 $8,300
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                                   LUMP               1            8.0%                $65,800
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                           LUMP               1            0.5%                 $4,200
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                                       LUMP               1            5.0%                $41,200
     CLEARING AND GRUBBING                                 LUMP            0.23            5.0%                $41,200
     VALLEY LOCAL STREET                                   LF             1200             $271               $325,200
     NEW BRIDGE/BRIDGE WIDENING                            SQ FT          1800             $150               $270,000
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                                    MI               0.2        $450,000               $102,273
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                            LF             1200          $100.00               $120,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                                     LF             1200            $4.00                 $4,800

                                                                          ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $1,048,873
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                         AC                 2        $375,000               $750,000
       DEVELOPED                                           AC
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                             EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                                EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)              LUMP                      15%                     $112,500
                                                                   RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                     $862,500
                                                                                   SUBTOTAL              $1,911,373
                                                                          CONTINGENCY (30%)                   $573,412
                                                                     PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $2,484,785
OTHER
         ENGINEERING                                                                          10%          $248,478.45
         CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                              8%          $198,782.76


                                                                           PROJECT TOTAL                 $2,932,046




                                                 Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 2 CFP Project Cost Estimates


13800 South (13775 South)
200 West to 600 West                                             Length of Project (Ft)           3900
Widen to five lane minor arterial                                                 (Mi)            0.74

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%                $92,800
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%               $154,700
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                $31,000
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%               $247,400
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                $15,500
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            5.0%               $154,700
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP               1            5.0%               $154,700
     MINOR ARTERIAL (FIVE LANE) RDWAY             LF             3900             $519             $2,024,100
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          5200              $27               $140,400
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               0.7        $450,000               $332,386
     BOX CULVERT EXTENSION                        LF               20           $9,500               $190,000
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             3900          $100.00               $390,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             3900            $4.00                $15,600

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $3,943,286
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC               6.1        $160,000               $976,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                      $146,400
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                    $1,122,400
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $5,065,686
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,519,706
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $6,585,392
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%             $658,539
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%             $526,831

                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $7,770,763




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 2 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Highland Drive
Bangerter Parkway to 1300 East                                    Length of Project (Ft)          11200
Widen to five lane arterial                                                        (Mi)            2.12

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity        Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP                1            3.0%               $286,400
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP                1            5.0%               $477,200
     SWPPP                                        LUMP                1            1.0%                $95,500
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP                1            8.0%               $763,600
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP                1            0.5%                $47,800
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP                1            5.0%               $477,200
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP                1            5.0%               $477,200
     HIGHLAND DRIVE ARTERIAL B RDWAY              LF             11200             $617             $6,910,400
     NEW 10' WIDE ASPHALT TRAIL                   LF              3300              $20                $66,000
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          16600              $27               $448,200
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI                2.1        $450,000               $954,545
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             11200          $100.00             $1,120,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             11200            $4.00                $44,800

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $12,168,845
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                                15%                    $0
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                              $0
                                                                           SUBTOTAL             $12,168,845
                                                                  CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $3,650,654
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $15,819,499
OTHER
         ENGINEERING                                                                  10%        $1,581,949.91
         CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%        $1,265,559.93

                                                                   PROJECT TOTAL                $18,667,009




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 2 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Highland Drive
1300 East to Pioneer Road                                         Length of Project (Ft)          10900
Widen to five lane arterial                                                        (Mi)            2.06

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity        Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP                1            3.0%                $74,400
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP                1            5.0%               $124,000
     SWPPP                                        LUMP                1            1.0%                $24,800
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP                1            8.0%               $198,300
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP                1            0.5%                $12,400
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP                1            5.0%               $124,000
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP                1            5.0%               $124,000
     ARTERIAL                                     LF             10900             $572             $6,234,800
     NEW 10' WIDE ASPHALT TRAIL                   LF              4200              $20                $84,000
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          15400              $27               $415,800
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI                2.1        $450,000               $928,977
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             10900          $100.00             $1,090,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             10900            $4.00                $43,600

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                   $9,479,077
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC                5.6      $1,200,000             $6,720,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                                15%           $1,008,000
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                     $7,728,000
                                                                           SUBTOTAL             $17,207,077
                                                                  CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $5,162,123
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $22,369,200
OTHER
         ENGINEERING                                                                  10%        $2,236,920.05
         CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%        $1,789,536.04

                                                                   PROJECT TOTAL                $26,395,657




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 2 CFP Project Cost Estimates


600 West
Vista Station Blvd to 14000 South                                 Length of Project (Ft)           4300
Widen to seven lane arterial                                                       (Mi)            0.81

Item Description                                   Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                        LUMP               1            3.0%               $120,000
     MOBILIZATION                                  LUMP               1            5.0%               $200,000
     SWPPP                                         LUMP               1            1.0%                $40,000
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                           LUMP               1            8.0%               $319,900
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                   LUMP               1            0.5%                $20,000
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                               LUMP               1            5.0%               $200,000
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                      LUMP               1            5.0%               $200,000
     ARTERIAL (7 LANE)                             LF             3030             $700             $2,121,000
     CONCRETE PAVEMENT (9", INCL BC)               SY             3400              $93               $316,200
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                       CU YD          9300              $27               $251,100
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                            MI               0.8        $450,000               $366,477
     BOX CULVERT EXTENSION                         LF                25          $9,500               $237,500
     STREET LIGHTING                               MI              0.24     $350,000.00                $84,186
     SIGNAL MODIFICATIONS                          EACH               1     $175,000.00               $175,000
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                    LF             4300          $100.00               $430,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                             LF             4300            $4.00                $17,200

                                                                  ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $5,098,563
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                 AC
       DEVELOPED                                   AC
        RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
        BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
        ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                               15%                    $0
                                                           RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                             $0
                                                                           SUBTOTAL              $5,098,563
                                                                  CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,529,569
                                                             PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $6,628,132
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                   10%          $662,813.17
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                       8%          $530,250.54

                                                                   PROJECT TOTAL                 $7,821,195




                                         Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 2 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Pioneer Road (12400 South)
1300 East to Highland Drive                                           Length of Project (Ft)           5400
Widen to minor collector and add C&G and sidewalk where needed                         (Mi)            1.02

Item Description                                       Unit      Quantity     Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                            LUMP               1            3.0%                $85,900
     MOBILIZATION                                      LUMP               1            5.0%               $143,200
     SWPPP                                             LUMP               1            1.0%                $28,700
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                               LUMP               1            8.0%               $229,100
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                       LUMP               1            0.5%                $14,400
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                                   LUMP               1            5.0%               $143,200
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            5.0%               $143,200
     RESIDENTIAL MINOR COLLECTOR RDWAY                 LF             5400             $308             $1,663,200
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                           CU YD          6000              $27               $162,000
     NEW 10' WIDE ASPHALT TRAIL                        LF              800              $20                $16,000
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                                MI               1.0        $450,000               $460,227
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                        LF             5400          $100.00               $540,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                                 LF             5400            $4.00                $21,600

                                                                    ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                    $3,650,727
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                     AC
       DEVELOPED                                       AC              0.5       $1,100,000               $550,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                         EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                            EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)          LUMP                               15%              $82,500
                                                                 RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                   $632,500
                                                                               SUBTOTAL              $4,283,227
                                                                      CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,284,968
                                                                  PROJECT SUBTOTAL                   $5,568,195
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                       10%          $556,819.55
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                           8%          $445,455.64


                                                                       PROJECT TOTAL                 $6,570,471




                                           Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 2 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Pioneer Road (12400 South)
700 East to 900 East                                                  Length of Project (Ft)           1350
Widen to minor collector and add C&G and sidewalk where needed                         (Mi)            0.26

Item Description                                       Unit      Quantity     Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                            LUMP               1            3.0%                $21,600
     MOBILIZATION                                      LUMP               1            5.0%                $36,000
     SWPPP                                             LUMP               1            1.0%                 $7,200
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                               LUMP               1            8.0%                $57,600
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                       LUMP               1            0.5%                 $3,600
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                                   LUMP               1            5.0%                $36,000
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            5.0%                $36,000
     RESIDENTIAL MINOR COLLECTOR RDWAY                 LF             1350             $308               $415,800
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                           CU YD          1800              $27                $48,600
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                                MI               0.3        $450,000               $115,057
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                        LF             1350          $100.00               $135,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                                 LF             1350            $4.00                 $5,400

                                                                    ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                     $917,857
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                     AC
       DEVELOPED                                       AC
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                         EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                            EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)          LUMP                        15%                           $0
                                                                 RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                           $0
                                                                               SUBTOTAL                $917,857
                                                                      CONTINGENCY (30%)                   $275,357
                                                                  PROJECT SUBTOTAL                   $1,193,214
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                       10%          $119,321.39
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                           8%           $95,457.11


                                                                       PROJECT TOTAL                 $1,407,992




                                           Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 2 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Vista Station Boulevard
Frontrunner Boulevard to W 12300 South                           Length of Project (Ft)           3100
Build new five lane minor arterial                                                (Mi)            0.59

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%                $65,900
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%               $109,800
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                $22,000
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%               $175,700
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                $11,000
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            2.0%                $44,000
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP               1            5.0%               $109,800
     MINOR ARTERIAL (FIVE LANE) RDWAY             LF             3100             $519             $1,608,900
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               0.6        $450,000               $264,205
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             3100          $100.00               $310,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             3100            $4.00                $12,400

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $2,733,705
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC              7.12        $160,000             $1,138,659
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                      $170,799
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                    $1,309,458
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $4,043,163
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,212,949
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $5,256,112
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%             $525,611
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%             $420,489

                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $6,202,212




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 2 CFP Project Cost Estimates


12200 South
300 East to 700 East                                                  Length of Project (Ft)            3000
Build/widen to minor collector; add C&G and sidewalk where needed                      (Mi)             0.57

Item Description                                        Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                             LUMP              1             3.0%                $33,200
     MOBILIZATION                                       LUMP              1             5.0%                $55,300
     SWPPP                                              LUMP              1             1.0%                $11,100
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                                LUMP              1             8.0%                $88,400
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                        LUMP              1             0.5%                 $5,600
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                                    LUMP              1             5.0%                $55,300
     CLEARING AND GRUBBING                              LUMP              1             5.0%                $55,300
     COMMERCIAL MINOR COLLECTOR RDWAY                   LF            1900              $316               $600,400
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                            CU YD         1100               $27                $29,700
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                                 MI              0.4         $450,000               $161,932
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                         LF            3000           $100.00               $300,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                                  LF            3000             $4.00                $12,000

                                                                     ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                    $1,408,232
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                      AC                 1        $530,000               $530,000
       DEVELOPED                                        AC
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                          EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                             EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)           LUMP                               15%              $79,500
                                                                RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                     $609,500
                                                                                SUBTOTAL              $2,017,732
                                                                      CONTINGENCY (30%)                    $605,320
                                                                    PROJECT SUBTOTAL                  $2,623,051
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                        10%          $262,305.14
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                            8%          $209,844.11


                                                                       PROJECT TOTAL                  $3,095,201




                                            Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 2 CFP Project Cost Estimates


13800 South Overpass
Bangerter Parkway to 200 West                                             Length of Project (Ft)           3600
Build/widen to five lane minor arterial (including I-15 overpass)                          (Mi)            0.68

Item Description                                             Unit    Quantity     Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                                  LUMP             1            3.0%               $295,100
     MOBILIZATION                                            LUMP             1            8.0%               $786,900
     SWPPP                                                   LUMP             1            1.0%                $98,400
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                                     LUMP             1            8.0%               $786,900
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                             LUMP             1            1.0%                $98,400
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                                         LUMP             1            6.0%               $590,200
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                                LUMP             1            5.0%               $491,900
     MINOR ARTERIAL (FIVE LANE) RDWAY                        LF           3250             $519             $1,686,750
     COMMERCIAL MINOR COLLECTOR RDWAY                        LF           1500             $316               $474,000
     BORROW                                                  CU YD       20000              $30               $600,000
     NEW BRIDGE/BRIDGE WIDENING                              SQ FT       31500             $150             $4,725,000
     BRIDGE WIDENING OVER CANAL                              SQ FT        1300             $150               $195,000
     MODULAR BLOCK WALL                                      SQ FT       18400              $50               $920,000
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                                 CU YD        5200              $27               $140,400
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                                      MI             0.7        $450,000               $306,818
     STREET LIGHTING                                         MI             0.7        $350,000               $238,636
     SIGNAL MODIFICATIONS                                    EACH             1        $175,000               $175,000
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                              LF           3600          $100.00               $360,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                                       LF           3600            $4.00                $14,400

                                                                         ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $12,983,805
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                           AC
       DEVELOPED                                             AC             2.3      $1,000,000             $2,300,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                               EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)                LUMP                             15%             $345,000
                                                                     RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                  $2,645,000
                                                                                   SUBTOTAL             $15,628,805
                                                                          CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $4,688,641
                                                                      PROJECT SUBTOTAL                  $20,317,446
OTHER
         ENGINEERING                                                                          10%        $2,031,744.59
         CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                              8%        $1,625,395.67


                                                                           PROJECT TOTAL                $23,974,586




                                                Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 2 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Highland Drive
12000 South to Sandy City                                        Length of Project (Ft)           1500
New Major Collector                                                               (Mi)            0.28

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%                $26,400
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%                $44,000
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                 $8,800
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%                $70,400
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                 $4,400
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            1.0%                 $8,800
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP               1            2.0%                $17,600
     MAJOR COLLECTOR RDWAY                        LF             1500             $377               $565,500
     NEW 10' WIDE ASPHALT TRAIL                   LF             1500              $20                $30,000
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               0.3        $450,000               $127,841
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             1500          $100.00               $150,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             1500            $4.00                 $6,000

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $1,059,741
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC              2.55        $120,000               $305,785
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                      $45,868
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                     $351,653
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $1,411,394
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                   $423,418
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $1,834,812
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%          $183,481.19
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%          $146,784.96


                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $2,165,078




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 3 CFP Project Cost Estimates


13800 South (13775 South)
Fort Street to 1300 East                                         Length of Project (Ft)           5300
Major Collector                                                                   (Mi)              1

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP              1             3.0%                $95,900
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP              1             5.0%               $159,800
     SWPPP                                        LUMP              1             1.0%                $32,000
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP              1             8.0%               $255,700
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP              1             0.5%                $16,000
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP              1             5.0%               $159,800
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP              1             5.0%               $159,800
     MAJOR COLLECTOR RDWAY                        LF             5300             $377             $1,998,100
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          7200              $27               $194,400
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI                1         $450,000               $451,705
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             5300          $100.00               $530,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             5300            $4.00                $21,200

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $4,074,405
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC               1.4      $1,000,000             $1,400,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                      $210,000
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                    $1,610,000
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $5,684,405
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,705,321
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $7,389,726
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%             $738,973
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%             $591,178

                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $8,719,877




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 3 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Fort Street
12400 South to 13800 South                                        Length of Project (Ft)           9300
Build/widen to minor collector                                                     (Mi)            1.76

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity        Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP                1            3.0%               $150,600
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP                1            5.0%               $250,900
     SWPPP                                        LUMP                1            1.0%                $50,200
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP                1            8.0%               $401,400
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP                1            0.5%                $25,100
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP                1            5.0%               $250,900
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP                1            5.0%               $250,900
     RESIDENTIAL MINOR COLLECTOR RDWAY            LF              9300             $308             $2,864,400
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          13800              $27               $372,600
     NEW 10' WIDE ASPHALT TRAIL                   LF              1000              $20                $20,000
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI                1.8        $450,000               $792,614
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF              9300          $100.00               $930,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF              9300            $4.00                $37,200

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                   $6,396,814
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC                0.7        $775,000               $542,500
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                                15%              $81,375
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                      $623,875
                                                                           SUBTOTAL              $7,020,689
                                                                  CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $2,106,207
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                     $9,126,895
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                   10%          $912,689.52
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                       8%          $730,151.62


                                                                   PROJECT TOTAL                $10,769,736




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 3 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Highland Drive
Pioneer Road to Sandy City                                       Length of Project (Ft)           3000
Widen to arterial                                                                 (Mi)            0.57

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%                $69,800
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%               $116,300
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                $23,300
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%               $186,100
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                $11,700
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            5.0%               $116,300
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP               1            5.0%               $116,300
     HIGHLAND DRIVE ARTERIAL A RDWAY              LF             3000             $548             $1,644,000
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          4200              $27               $113,400
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               0.6        $450,000               $255,682
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             3000          $100.00               $300,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             3000            $4.00                $12,000

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $2,964,882
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC               5.6        $500,000             $2,800,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                               15%             $420,000
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                    $3,220,000
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $6,184,882
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,855,465
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $8,040,346
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%          $804,034.64
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%          $643,227.71

                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $9,487,609




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 3 CFP Project Cost Estimates


Traverse Ridge Road
Highland Drive to Steep Mountain Drive                           Length of Project (Ft)           4300
Widen to four lane minor arterial                                                 (Mi)            0.81

Item Description                                  Unit    Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                       LUMP               1            3.0%                $91,600
     MOBILIZATION                                 LUMP               1            5.0%               $152,600
     SWPPP                                        LUMP               1            1.0%                $30,600
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                          LUMP               1            8.0%               $244,200
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                  LUMP               1            0.5%                $15,300
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                              LUMP               1            5.0%               $152,600
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                     LUMP               1            5.0%               $152,600
     MINOR ARTERIAL (FOUR LANE) RDWAY             LF             4300             $460             $1,978,000
     NEW 10' WIDE ASPHALT TRAIL                   LF              450              $20                 $9,000
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                      CU YD          9300              $27               $251,100
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                           MI               0.8        $450,000               $366,477
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                   LF             4300          $100.00               $430,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                            LF             4300            $4.00                $17,200

                                                                 ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                  $3,891,277
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                AC
       DEVELOPED                                  AC
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                    EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                       EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)     LUMP                      15%                             $0
                                                          RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                             $0
                                                                          SUBTOTAL              $3,891,277
                                                                 CONTINGENCY (30%)                 $1,167,383
                                                            PROJECT SUBTOTAL                    $5,058,660
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                  10%             $505,866
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                      8%             $404,693

                                                                  PROJECT TOTAL                 $5,969,219




                                        Draper 2019 MTP Update
Phase 3 CFP Project Cost Estimates


150 East
12800 South to 13000 South                                            Length of Project (Ft)             3000
Complete minor collector and add C&G and sidewalk where needed                         (Mi)              0.57

Item Description                                      Unit       Quantity       Unit Cost         Estimated Cost
ROADWAY
     SURVEY                                           LUMP                1              3.0%                $48,000
     MOBILIZATION                                     LUMP                1              5.0%                $79,900
     SWPPP                                            LUMP                1              1.0%                $16,000
     UTILITY RELOCATIONS                              LUMP                1              8.0%               $127,800
     PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES                      LUMP                1              0.5%                 $8,000
     TRAFFIC CONTROL                                  LUMP                1              5.0%                $79,900
     REMOVALS AND RELOCATIONS                         LUMP                1              5.0%                $79,900
     RESIDENTIAL MINOR COLLECTOR RDWAY                LF              3000               $308               $924,000
     ROADWAY ASPHALT REMOVAL                          CU YD           3900                $27               $105,300
     STORM DRAIN SYSTEM                               MI                0.6          $450,000               $255,682
     LANDSCAPING & FINISH ITEMS                       LF              3000            $100.00               $300,000
     PERMANENT SIGNING                                LF              3000              $4.00                $12,000

                                                                    ROADWAY SUBTOTAL                      $2,036,482
RIGHT-OF-WAY
       UNDEVELOPED                                    AC
       DEVELOPED                                      AC                    1        $750,000               $750,000
       RESIDENTIAL RELOCATIONS                        EACH
       BUSINESS RELOCATIONS                           EACH
       ROW ACQUISTION (MAPS, APPRAISALS, ETC)         LUMP                                  15%             $112,500
                                                                 RIGHT-OF-WAY SUBTOTAL                     $862,500
                                                                                 SUBTOTAL              $2,898,982
                                                                      CONTINGENCY (30%)                     $869,695
                                                                  PROJECT SUBTOTAL                     $3,768,676
OTHER
        ENGINEERING                                                                         10%          $376,867.64
        CONSTRUCTION ENGINEERING                                                             8%          $301,494.11


                                                                       PROJECT TOTAL                   $4,447,038




                                           Draper 2019 MTP Update
                                                  Draper City
                                           Safety Hot Spot Summary
12300 SOUTH & 900 EAST

This intersection experienced a high number of front to rear crashes, see Figure 1. According to police reports,
more than half of these crashes were a rear-end collision while stopped at the signal or for traffic
(eastbound/westbound). Upon further examination at the site, the signals have much lower degree of
prominence than other signals on the corridor. The signal heads are cable strung rather than mounted on mast
arms and appear somewhat obscured by surroundings and low signal height, see Figure 2. On approach, drivers
may be missing visual cues that this is a signalized intersection and not expecting to have stopped or slowed
vehicles. This intersection may be a good candidate for reflective, high-visibility signal head backplates and/or
upgraded to feature full signal poles and mast arms.

35 motor vehicle crashes:
    · 5 Angle
    · 22 Front to Rear
    · 2 Sideswipe Opposite Direction
    · 1 Parked Vehicle
    · 5 Single Vehicle


Figure 1 – Manner of Collision at 12300 South & 900 East Intersection
                                                    Manner of Collision



                                                                              Parked Vehicle, 1, 3%
                                                                                  Sideswipe Opposite Direction, 2, 6%
                          Front to Rear, 22, 63%




                                                                                  Single Vehicle, 5, 14%




                                                                        Angle, 5, 14%




Draper City                                                                                                        344-7516-002
Safety Hot Spot Summary                                       1                                                      March 2018
                             Intersection Safety - (continued) Protected: 23 USC 409




Figure 2 – Looking East at 12300 South & 900 East Intersection




DRAPER PARKWAY & 1300 EAST

While this intersection experiences a relatively high percentage of front to rear crashes, angle crashes were also
high for the years studied. Many rear-end crashes occurred when traffic was stopped at the signal during the red
phase. Like the previous intersection, this intersection may be a good candidate for reflective, high-visibility signal
head backplates.

Further examination of angle crashes reveals two trends. First, parking lot access management appears
problematic. Several crashes occurred when drivers were entering or exiting the Wendy's/Einstein's & Walgreens
parking lots from 1300 East. See Figure 4. This may be due to obscured sight lines from the bend in 1300 East.
Second, police report information indicates a high number of drivers that were performing left turn movements
are entering the intersection during the red phase. Access management at the driveways on the north 1300 East
leg may be an appropriate step to reduce crashes. Also, left-turn yellow and red times may also need to be
evaluated.

51 total crashes:
    · 17 angle crashes
    · 22 Front to Rear
    · 8 Sideswipe Same Direction
    · 4 Single Vehicle



 Draper City                                                                                                344-7516-002
 Safety Hot Spot Summary                                     2                                                March 2018
                                  Intersection Safety - (continued) Protected: 23 USC 409


Figure 3- Manner of Collision at Draper Parkway and 1300 East Intersection
                                                     Manner of Collision


                                                                             Sideswipe Same
                                                                             Direction, 8, 16%



                           Front to Rear, 22, 43%
                                                                                  Single Vehicle, 4, 8%




                                                                              Angle, 17, 33%




Figure 4 – Draper Parkway and 1300 East Intersection




 Draper City                                                                                              344-7516-002
 Safety Hot Spot Summary                                      3                                             March 2018
                            Intersection Safety - (continued) Protected: 23 USC 409


PIONEER ROAD & 1300 EAST ROUNDABOUT

Primary crash causes at this intersection are attributed to sideswipes of vehicles traveling in the same direction
and front to rear crashes. Many of the sideswipe crashes involve vehicles not properly yielding while merging or
entering the roundabout. Rear-end crashes generally occurred when traffic was stopped prior to entering the
roundabout. Crash severity is generally low at this intersection and resulted in relatively in minor or no bodily
injury, except for other crash causes attributed to reckless driving or driving under the influence. This intersection
may benefit from an increased attention to maintaining lane striping at roundabout entries and exits since off-
tracking vehicles tend to wear the striping quickly.

28 total crashes:
    · 4 Angle
    · 11 Front to Rear
    · 9 Sideswipe Same Direction
    · 4 Single Vehicle

Figure 5 – Manner of Collision at Pioneer Road and 1300 East (Roundabout)
                                                      Manner of Collision

                                 Single Vehicle, 4, 14%                 Angle, 4, 15%




                           Sideswipe Same
                           Direction, 9, 32%
                                                                                Front to Rear, 11, 39%




HIGHLAND DRIVE & 1300 EAST & 13800 SOUTH

This intersection is an unusual configuration as it is comprised of two adjacent smaller-intersections (see Figure
7). Angle crashes comprised 17 of the 33 total crashes at this intersection. These are primarily attributed to a
driver's failure to yield to oncoming traffic. Front to rear crashes, or rear-end crashes, were also common at this
intersection. Crashes frequently occurred when vehicles were stopped due to the presence of vehicle traffic that
has the right-of-way, without a traffic control device. The 1300 East southbound lane does not have a traffic
control device at 13800 South although the other two intersection legs are controlled with a stop sign.

This intersection has been the subject of much study in the past. There were some recent lane striping
modifications on the north/south road segments between 13800 South and Highland Drive and relocations of
crosswalks. Because of this change and recent opening of the 13200 South railroad crossing, this intersection
should be continued to be monitored to see if the changes have an effect on crashes.


 Draper City                                                                                              344-7516-002
 Safety Hot Spot Summary                                       4                                            March 2018
                             Intersection Safety - (continued) Protected: 23 USC 409


33 total crashes:

    ·    17 Angle
    ·    12 Front to Rear
    ·    1 Head On (front-to-front)
    ·    1 Sideswipe Opposite Direction
    ·    2 Single Vehicle

Figure 6 – Manner of Collision at Highland Drive & 1300 East Intersection (Includes 13800 South Intersection)


                                                Manner of Collision


                                                                      Front to Rear, 12, 36%




                                                                                  Head On (front-to-front), 1, 3%

                                                                                 Sideswipe Opposite Direction, 1, 3%

                            Angle, 17, 52%
                                                                                Single Vehicle, 2, 6%




Figure 7 – Intersection at Highland Drive & 1300 East (includes 13800 South Intersection)




 Draper City                                                                                                           344-7516-002
 Safety Hot Spot Summary                                      5                                                          March 2018
                                Intersection Safety - (continued) Protected: 23 USC 409


HIGHLAND DRIVE & BANGERTER PARKWAY / TRAVERSE RIDGE ROAD

Angle and front to rear crashes were each attributable to 33 percent of crashes at this intersection, totaling 66
percent. There are a multitude of intersection conditions contributing to a variety of crash types at the
intersection. There is limited sight distance due to horizontal and vertical curvature on every approach. The
proximity of the Chevron gas station driveways is a factor in several crashes. The large intersection footprint
makes driver decisions and turning movements more difficult. Many of the angle crashes involve vehicles turning
left from Highland Drive. The Highland Drive approaches do not have any protected left-turn phasing in contrast
to the Bangerter Parkway/Traverse Ridge Road approaches which have protected-only left-turn phasing. The
intersection may benefit from left-turn phasing for Highland Drive due to the frequent angle crashes.

27 total crashes:
    · 9 Angle
    · 9 Front to Rear
    · 1 Head On (front-to-front)
    · 2 Sideswipe Opposite Direction
    · 5 Sideswipe Same Direction
    · 1 Single Vehicle

Figure 8 – Manner of Collision at Highland Drive & Bangerter Parkway / Traverse Ridge Road
                                                       Manner of Collision

                                                  Single Vehicle, 1, 4%


                  Sideswipe Same Direction, 5, 19%
                                                                                Angle, 9, 33%



                           Sideswipe Opposite
                             Direction, 2, 7%

                Head On (front-to-front), 1, 4%




                                                        Front to Rear, 9, 33%




BICYCLE SAFETY

There were 32 crashes involving drivers and cyclists in years 2015-2017. The bicycle crash locations are scattered
through the city such that the data does not point to any obvious problem areas. Instead, examining the
attributes of each crash can lend insight as to policy or systemic treatments that my help lower bicycle crashes
overall. While some crashes appear to be primarily behavior-related, several of these crashes may have an
engineering-related mitigation. For example, many of the crashes involved a driver striking a cyclist when they are
riding on a narrow shoulder or in a conventional motor-vehicle travel lane. Dedicated bicycle facilities can prevent
these types of incidents. Other types of incidents that may be preventable include:

 Draper City                                                                                            344-7516-002
 Safety Hot Spot Summary                                          6                                       March 2018
                             Intersection Safety - (continued) Protected: 23 USC 409


    ·    Incidents where a cyclist is struck by a driver entering or exiting a driveway while traveling on a sidewalk
         because a bicycle facility is not available
    ·    Incidents where a cyclist is struck by a driver performing an intersection turn movement and the cyclist is
         not positioned in a manner that enhances visibility to driver
    ·    Incidents where a cyclist is crossing the street in a crosswalk instead of a marked bicycle facility because
         intersection positioning is ambiguous.

Figure 9 – Cyclist/Motor-Vehicle Crashes and Prevention Possibility with Design
                                     Preventable Cyclist Involved Motor-Vehicle Crashes




                                                                      Possibly
                                                                    Preventable
                                                                    with Design
                                                                        25%

                                             Preventable with
                                                 Design
                                                   63%                            Not Preventable with
                                                                                         Design
                                                                                          12%




The addition of bicycle facilities could possibly held prevent many of these incidents. A bicycle and pedestrian
master plan would help the city identify locations to add bicycle facilities along key roadways and corridors. A
bicycle and pedestrian master plan could also contain design guidelines for:

     ·    Conventional bike lanes
     ·    Buffered or protected bike lanes
     ·    Intersection design




 Draper City                                                                                               344-7516-002
 Safety Hot Spot Summary                                        7                                            March 2018
                                Intersection Safety - (continued) Protected: 23 USC 409


PEDESTRIAN SAFETY

There were 31 crashes involving pedestrians and drivers in years 2015-2017. As with bicycle crashes the data does
not point to any obvious problem areas. Instead, examining the attributes of each crash can lend insight as to
policy or systemic treatments that my help lower bicycle crashes overall.

Seven of the crashes, approximately 23 percent, are classified as a hit-and-run. Many of these incidents are
possibly preventable. Such examples include:

    ·    Incidents where a pedestrian is crossing the road at a location outside of a crosswalk. Frequent jaywalking
         may be a symptom of a lack of crosswalks
    ·    Incidents where a pedestrian is struck walking on a shoulder without a sidewalk
    ·    Incidents where a pedestrian is crossing the road with two or more lanes in each direction in an
         unsignalized mid-block crosswalk and is struck by a vehicle in the second lane.

Treatments that enhance pedestrian visibility such as intersection lighting, HAWK signals, and dedicated
pedestrian signal phases, increase pedestrian safety at crosswalks. These may also potentially help decrease
incidents that are related to vehicle turn movements at intersections which were common during the years
studied.


Figure 10 – Pedestrian/Motor-Vehicle Crashes and Prevention Possibility with Design


                                     Preventable Pedestrian Involved Motor-Vehicle Crashes




                                                                             Possibly
                                                  Preventable with       Preventable with
                                                      Design                  Design
                                                        26%                    26%



                                                         Not Preventable with
                                                                Design
                                                                 48%




 Draper City                                                                                            344-7516-002
 Safety Hot Spot Summary                                             8                                    March 2018
     APPENDIX C
     Land Use Categories




38
                             Land Use Plan
Residential Purpose
                             Several broad land-use categories are delineated, with
Residential areas will       accompanying explanations. In addition to the land use
be developed with an         categories, there are land use principles that function as
emphasis on creating safe,   “the rules” that must be followed in the process of
attractive neighborhoods.    land development.
They will include adequate
open space and will
be linked to schools,        RESIDENTIAL AREAS
commercial services, parks
and other neighborhoods      Residential land uses include a range of residential
by landscaped pedestrian     classifications. Density is expressed in dwelling units per
ways, bicycle paths, and     acre for homes or apartments.
residential scale streets.   Zoning may not allow the maximum units per acre to
                             be realized in all cases. Land uses are designated to
                             accommodate a mix of dwelling types and densities for a
                             variety of neighborhoods and environmental conditions.
                             Zoning regulations may allow a limited number of non-
                             residential uses, such as places of worship, neighborhood
                             parks, schools, etc., in residential areas.
                             Where enough vacant land exists, any land use category
                             can accommodate a master planned community. It is
                             expected that a master planned development will include
                             a variety of residential densities or dwelling types, but the
                             overall density should be compatible on the basis of gross
                             acreage based on developable land to the densities shown
                             on the Land Use Plan. Individual lot
                             sizes may vary in master-planned developments due to
                             clustering of dwellings and the preservation of sensitive
                             environmental features.
                             Medium to medium-high density (i.e., single-family
                             detached, patio homes, townhouses) may be used as a
                             transition between less intensive residential areas and non-
                             residential areas such as offices or retail centers. Special
                             care should be taken to provide adequate transitions such
                             as use of building height and scale between high density
                             and other residential uses. Areas containing high-density
                             residential development should have minimal
                             environmental constraints.
Commercial Purpose              COMMERCIAL
Commercial uses will be         Commercial land uses include commercial and employment
conveniently dispersed          (office and manufacturing/industrial) categories. Service
throughout the City to          uses provide a variety of goods and services to the
serve the retail and service    people who live in, work in, or visit Draper and have been
                                designated throughout the community at an appropriate
needs of the community.         scale and location. Employment uses are designated at
                                suitable locations that have access to adequate circulation
                                and provide opportunities for business enterprises.
                                Locations have been identified for employment uses where
                                impacts on residential neighborhoods are limited and access
                                is available to the labor pool and transportation facilities.
                                Whenever service/employment uses are adjacent to
                                established or planned residential areas, special care must
                                be taken to ensure privacy and protect personal property.
                                Methods of protecting residential areas by providing
                                transitions and buffers between residential and employment
                                areas include increased setbacks, landscaping, restricted
                                land uses, diversion of traffic, controlled noise or light,
                                building height and scale; and transitional land uses such as
                                minor offices, minor employment uses, and in some cases
                                medium to high residential.

                                SPECIAL USE AREAS
Special Use Purpose             Include land use classifications that are distinct from the
                                other two major groupings. These uses include passive and
To recognize that there         active recreational areas, permanent open space, cultural
are special needs within        and educational facilities, public or quasi-public uses, new
Draper and to encourage         growth areas, key mixed-use activity and transportation
areas with special uses         centers, and areas with significant environmental constraints
facilities, which provide       which impact development. The locations for these
employment opportunities        activities are interspersed within residential and non-
and help raise the City’s tax   residential areas.
base. There are also areas
with important natural          In some cases, the City does not control the location of
and cultural resources that     special uses, such as schools or major transmission lines,
require special attention       as the state and federal government can preempt local
and protection.                 land use authority. However, the City can work with other
                                jurisdictions and agencies on decisions regarding land use.
                                Any negative impacts, including visual impacts, should be
                                mitigated whenever possible.
Residential Hillside Low Density

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Large lot single-family neighborhoods or ranchettes
                           • Natural features and vegetation is predominant
                             and special care is required in order to preserve
                             those features
                           • Equestrian uses and privileges may exist in certain areas

LAND USE MIX             Primary                     Secondary
                                                       • Parks
                           • Single-family
                             detached homes            • Churches
                                                       • Schools


DENSITY                    • Density range of 1 dwelling unit per 2 acres to 1 dwelling
                             unit per 5 acres.
                           • Reduction for non-buildable areas

COMPATIBLE ZONING          • Agricultural (A2)
                           • Agricultural (A5)
                           • Master Planned Community (MPC)
                           • Single-family Residential Hillside (RH)
Residential Low-Medium Density
LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Very large lot single-family neighborhoods or ranchettes
                             allows for enhancement of Draper’s rural character
                          • Environmentally designed clustered housing with
                            the Suncrest and South Mountain projects being the
                            exceptions
                          • Some natural features and cultivated vegetation is
                            apparent and special care is required in order to preserve
                            those features and areas
                          • Equestrian uses and privileges may exist in certain areas
LAND USE MIX            Primary                     Secondary
                          • Single-family             • Parks
   Future Land Use          detached homes            • Open space
                                                      • Churches
                                                      • Schools

DENSITY                   • Density range: up to 2 dwelling units per acre
                          • Reduction for non-buildable areas
COMPATIBLE ZONING
                            • Residential Agricultural (RA1)
                            • Residential Agricultural (RA2)
                            • Single-family Residential Hillside (RH)
                            • Master Planned Community (MPC)

OTHER CRITERIA            • Increased densities within equestrian areas may be
                            allowed only with compliance to specified performance
                            standards and impact mitigation measures
                          • Buffers and transitions around existing low-density
                            single-family residences may consist of open space/
                            retention areas, lots that are pie-shaped or otherwise
                            larger than standard sized lots or a combination of these
                            and other appropriate design techniques
Residential Medium Density

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Preservation of large tracts of open space, rather than open
                              space contained primarily in individual subdivision lots
                            • Variations and mixing of lot sizes, setbacks, and residential
                              development forms
                            • Minimal fronting of homes on major streets
                            • Provision for trails that allow interconnectivity to other
                              existing or proposed trails
                            • Discourage “piecemeal” infrastructure installation
                            • Trees and abundant landscaping, encouraging low water
                              use and native plants
LAND USE MIX             Primary                       Secondary
                           • Single-family               • Parks
                             detached homes              • Churches
    Future Land Use                                      • Schools
                                                         • Open Space
DENSITY                     • Density range: 2-4 dwelling units per acre

COMPATIBLE ZONING
                             • Residential Agricultural (RA2)
                             • Single-family Residential (R3)
                             • Single-family Residential (R4)
                             • Master Planned Community (MPC)

OTHER CRITERIA              • Preservation of environmental features usually requires
                              a master-planned or cluster development. Increased
                              densities within these areas would be allowed only with
                              compliance to specified performance standards and
                              impact mitigation measures
Residential Medium-High Density

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Abundant landscaping
                         • Uniform design standards which also allow architectural
                           variation between units
                         • Architectural variation between units and/or buildings,
                           designed to look like houses, not boxes
                         • Adequate off-street parking
                         • Avoid walls and fences, except for screening and buffering
                           with neighboring developments
LAND USE MIX           Primary                     Secondary
                         • Single-family homes       • Parks
                         • Patio homes               • Churches
                         • Townhouses                • Schools
                         • Multifamily housing       • Open Space
DENSITY                  • Density range: 4-8 dwelling units per acre

     Future Land
COMPATIBLE ZONING    Use Residential (R4)
              • Single-family
                         • Single-family Residential (R5)
                         • Master Planned Community (MPC)
                         • Multiple-family Residential (RM1)

OTHER CRITERIA           • The Master Planned Community may be utilized
                         • The developer must demonstrate that the project provides
                           a quality living environment
Residential High Density

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Abundant landscaping
                             • Architectural variation between units and/or buildings,
                               designed to look like houses, not boxes
                             • Avoid walls and fences, except for screening and buffering
                               with neighboring developments
LAND USE MIX               Primary                      Secondary
                             • Patio homes                • Parks
                             • Townhouses                 • Churches
                             • Multifamily housing        • Schools
                                                          • Open Space

DENSITY                      • Density range: 8-12 dwelling units per acre
COMPATIBLE ZONING
              • Institutional care (IC)
     Future Land      Use Residential (RM1)
              • Multiple-family
                             • Multiple-family Residential (RM2)
                             • Master Planned Community (MPC)

LOCATION                     • Near retail centers, offices, or other compatible uses
                             • Near major transit investment corridors

OTHER CRITERIA               • Care must be taken to minimize impacts on other
                               residential areas to provide adequate circulation to
                               accommodate the traffic demands
                             • The developer must demonstrate that the project provides
                               a quality living environment
Neighborhood Commercial
LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Small-scale commercial land uses that serve local residents
                              in adjacent neighborhoods
                            • Minimal impact in predominantly residential areas
                            • Well-landscaped street frontages
                            • Limited traffic access points and pedestrian access from
                              surrounding residential areas
                            • Don’t overcrowd commercial lots; i.e., require adequate
                              setback and landscape buffers
                            • Screened parking and adequate ingress and egress to
                              parking areas
                            • Adequate drainage
     Future Land Use        • Low noise standards
LAND USE MIX                • Small-scale commercial
                            • Planned retail
                            • Office

COMPATIBLE ZONING
                            • Neighborhood Commercial (CN)
                            • Institutional Care (IC)
                            • Commercial Services (CS)

LOCATION                    • Adjacent to neighborhood
                            • Along local roads
 Office/Service
Office and Service
 LAND
LAND  USEDESCRIPTION
     USE  DESCRIPTION
 CHARACTERISTICS
CHARACTERISTICS      • •Includes
                          Includes a variety of office and service uses that range
                                  a varietyscale
                                            of office and service  uses that  range
                          from residential       and character  to major offices thatfrom
                                  residential scale
                                   have multiple     and character
                                                   stories            to majorparking,
                                                            and underground      offices that
                                                                                         whichhave
                                  multiple stories  and   underground
                                   generate moderate traffic volumes      parking,  which  generate
                                  moderate traffic volumes
                                • Development and landscaping standards vary,
                              • Development
                                   depending upon andthelandscaping
                                                            location ofstandards   vary,
                                                                        the use, and  underlying
                                  depending    upon the location of the use, and underlying
                                   zoning regulations
                                  zoning regulations
                                • For minor offices strict development and landscaping
                              • For   minor offices
                                   requirements    willstrict development
                                                        protect               and landscaping
                                                                 adjacent residential  uses
                                  requirements    will protect   adjacent  residential
                                • For major offices and services, arterial access is   uses
                                                                                         desirable
                              • For     should
                                   andmajor     be located
                                              offices         around the
                                                       and services,       central
                                                                       arterial    business
                                                                                access      district,
                                                                                       is desirable
                                   other
                                  and    majorbe
                                       should    commercial     cores,the
                                                   located around      or freeway  interchanges
                                                                           central business  district,
                                   and away
                                  other majorfrom    residential
                                                commercial        areasor freeway interchanges and
                                                               cores,
                                  away from residential areas
 LAND USE MIX                   • Small-scale commercial
LAND USE MIX                  • •Small-scale
                                   Planned retail
                                               commercial
                                •  Office buildings
                              • Planned retail
                              • Office buildings
 DENSITY
                               • Up to 12 dwelling units per acre for residential
DENSITY                       • Up to 12 dwelling units per acre for residential
 COMPATIBLEZONING
COMPATIBLE  ZONING
                              • •Professional
                                  ProfessionalOffice
                                               Office(CO2)
                                                      (CO2)
                                • Professional Office (CO1)
                              • Professional Office (CO1)
                                • Office Residential (OR)
                              • Office Residential (OR)
 LOCATION
LOCATION
                               • Near retail centers, offices, or other compatible uses
                              • Near retail centers, offices, or other compatible uses
Commercial Special District

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Include a wide range of commercial uses that are
                                destination oriented and draw from a regional
                                customer base
                              • Compatible, master planned mix of day and evening uses
                                consisting of office, light manufacturing, retail, residential,
                                recreation and open space components
                              • Limited traffic access points
                              • Development is intended to consist of well designed,
                                architecturally integrated structures which are
                                appropriately landscaped and buffered from surrounding
                                land uses
                              • Uniform design standards and aesthetics
                              • Access to individual properties should be provided only
                                from frontage roads or major arterials
                              • Common off-street traffic circulation and parking areas
LAND USE MIX                  • Large-scale master-planned commercial centers
                              • Big box centers
                              • Corporate headquarters
                              • Multi-story upscale office buildings
                              • Multi-story upscale residential buildings
COMPATIBLE ZONING
                              • Adopted Commercial Special District zone
                              • Adopted Major Freeway Arterial Frontage Road zone


LOCATION                      • Strategically placed along high-traffic corridors
                                with convenient points of traffic access to and from
                                residential areas
                              • Excellent transportation access to major highways
                              • High visibility from the I-15 corridor
                              • Proximity to both Salt Lake and Utah Counties
                              • Provide adequate buffers in the form of setbacks, open
                                space, low impact industrial uses, barriers, etc. adjacent
                                to existing residential areas
                              • Major streets serving these areas should accommodate
                                truck traffic
Community Commercial

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Includes the full scope of commercial land uses that require
                              and utilize exposure to the freeway
                            • Intended to be traveler-or commuter-oriented and should
                              provide lodging, food, personal services and other similar uses
                            • Frontage roads
                            • Deeper setbacks for landscaping and enhancements
                            • Limited traffic access points
                            • Visual unity
                            • Uniform design standards and aesthetics
                            • Access to individual properties should be provided only
                              from frontage roads
                            • Well landscaped street frontages
                            • Limited traffic access points for the site
                            • Common off-street traffic circulation and parking areas
                            • Pedestrian access from surrounding residential areas
LAND USE MIX                • Large-scale, master-planned commercial centers
                            • Big-box stores and offices

COMPATIBLE ZONING
                            • Community Commercial (CC)
                            • General Commercial (CG)
                            • Interchange Commercial (CI)
                            • Institutional Care (IC)

    Future Land
LOCATION            Use placed along high-traffic corridors with
             • Strategically
               convenient points of traffic access to and from
                              residential areas
Industrial and Manufacturing

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Encompasses the most intensive and large scale industrial
                             and manufacturing uses allowed anywhere in Draper
                           • Major entry points and features
                           • Well landscaped perimeter and public spaces
                           • Limited traffic access to major streets
                           • Uniform design standards and aesthetics
                           • Gravel pits with reclamation/redevelopment plans
LAND USE MIX               • Manufacturing
                           • Industrial Processing

COMPATIBLE ZONING
                           • Major Manufacturing (M2)

LOCATION                   • Excellent transportation access to major highways
     Future Land
OTHER CRITERIA
                   Use     • Proximity to both Salt Lake and Utah Counties
              • Where these manufacturing areas border other land
                             uses—especially residential—care will be given to provide
                             adequate buffers in the form of setbacks, open space, low-
                             impact industrial uses, barriers, etc.
                           • Major streets serving these areas should accommodate
                             truck traffic
Destination Commercial

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • An area uniquely regional in nature
                           • Allowed uses include: lodging, food establishments, retail,
                             office, service uses and entertainment
                           • Limited traffic access points
                           • Development is intended to consist of well designed,
                             architecturally integrated structures which are
                             appropriately landscaped and buffered from surrounding
                             land uses
                           • Access to individual properties should be provided only
                             from frontage roads or major arterials
LAND USE MIX             Primary
                           • Large-scale master-planned commercial centers
                           • Big box centers
                           • Multi-story upscale office buildings
COMPATIBLE ZONING
                           • Destination Commercial (DC)

LOCATION                   • Excellent transportation access to major highways
                           • High visibility from the I-15 corridor
                           • Proximity to both Salt Lake and Utah Counties
                           • Major streets serving these areas should accommodate
                             truck traffic
Business and Light Manufacturing

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Allows for a mixture of employment uses and services for
                             these employees
                           • Park or campus-like atmosphere
                           • Low traffic generation
                           • Buildings should not exceed three stories
                           • Major entry points and features
                           • Well landscaped perimeter and public places
                           • Limited traffic access to major streets
                           • Uniform design standards and aesthetics
                           • Common off-street traffic circulation and parking areas
                           • Pedestrian-friendly design
     Future Land
LAND USE MIX  Primary Use                               Secondary
                           • Office                       • Retail
                           • Light manufacturing          • Service Uses
COMPATIBLE ZONING
                           • Light Manufacturing (M1)
                           • Business Manufacturing Park (CBP)

LOCATION                   • Along collector and arterial streets
Open Space and Parks

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Applies to natural areas that have the potential to be
                              permanent open space
                            • Efforts should continue to preserve mountainous
                              areas, drainage and riparian areas with attractive
                              indigenous vegetation
                            • Areas designated as permanent natural open space should
                              be placed within a conservation easement
LAND USE MIX                • City’s established parks
                            • Public/private golf courses
                            • Greenbelts/linear parks
                            • Large retention areas that have recreational potential
                            • Natural area open space
     Future Land Use
COMPATIBLE ZONING
                            • Public Open Space (OS)
                            • Agricultural (A2)
                            • Agricultural (A5)

OTHER CRITERIA              • A variety of methods can be used to preserve these areas,
                              including easements, dedications, and acquisition, some
                              with the potential of having tax relief benefits
Cultural and Institutional

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Major entry points and features
                             • Well-landscaped perimeter and public spaces
                             • Limited traffic access to major streets
                             • Uniform design standards and aesthetics
                             • Common off-street traffic circulation and parking areas
                             • Pedestrian-friendly design
LAND USE MIX                 • Government and municipal buildings
                             • Schools
                             • Fire and police stations
                             • Hospitals
COMPATIBLE ZONING
                             • Public Facilities (PF)
      Future Land     Use
               • Public Open Space (OS)
                             • Public Institutional (PI)

OTHER CRITERIA               • Zoning for these uses should be based on a demonstration
                               that the project can be successfully completed and has
                               good transportation access
                             • Such operations should be subject to City review and
                               imposition of conditions deemed necessary to keep the
                               land use compatible with its neighbors and with the
                               community in general
Town Center

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Requires a commitment to exceptional levels of quality and
                             a specific plan of development that meets the
                             City’s approval
                           • Advance the traditional town center character by
                             supporting the preservation and adaptive re-use of existing
                             structures, the preservation of existing natural features,
                             new development that blends in with existing conditions,
                             architectural standards befitting a town center destination,
                             and site design standards that promote walkability and
                             human scale
                           • Reasonable scale, to encourage secondary forms
                             of circulation
                           • Not bisected by arterial streets
                           • A well-conceived site, with access to and integration with
                             mass transit facilities
                           • Buildings designed per the standards of the City’s design
                             guidelines and Town Center ordinance
                           • Amenities provided as per the quality design standards
                           • Allowance of buildings with a maximum height of three
     Future Land Use         (3) stories

LAND USE MIX               • Multifamily Residential
                           • Office
                           • Commercial
                           • Institutional
DENSITY                    • Density range: 6-25 units per acre
COMPATIBLE ZONING
                           • Town Center (TC)

LOCATION                   • Adjacent to and near Draper Town Center light rail station,
                             Draper City Hall, Draper City Park and Draper Historical Park
Transit Station District

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Development within this land use category – often
                             referred to as Transit Oriented Development – provides an
                             alternative to standard, segregated zoning strategies
                           • New development and zoning will be required to mix
                             uses to support the ridership of transit and create unique
                             walkable and bicycle friendly successful urban centers
                           • Residential development densities and commercial floor
                             area ratios within this district will be higher than those
                             allowed in other parts of Draper City, and in some cases,
                             significantly higher
LAND USE MIX               • Commercial
                           • Residential
                           • Public Uses
                           • Office
      Future Land    Use
DENSITY        • Density range: minimum 5-35 dwelling units per acre
COMPATIBLE ZONING
                           • Transit Station District (TSD)

LOCATION                   • Adjacent to and near fixed guideway rail systems
                             operated by the Utah Transit Authority
OTHER CRITERIA             • In order to mitigate the concerns of higher density
                             and development intensity, more stringent design
                             guidelines, architectural requirements, landscaping
                             quality, and public space amenities will be required to
                             be incorporated into new zoning categories and specific
                             development proposals
Sensitive Lands Overlay

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • River banks
                          • Floodplain areas and incised washes
                          • Steep mountainsides
                          • Boulder features
                          • Mountain peaks and ridges
                          • Sensitive habitat
                          • Water resources
LAND USE MIX              • Open Space
                          • Parks
                          • Trails
                          • Low-impact recreation (including hiking, mountain biking,
                            equestrian trails, sight seeing and boating)
                          • Low-density or clustered residential
COMPATIBLE ZONING         Underlying Zoning

LOCATION                  • Jordan River Corridor
                          • Traverse Ridge Mountains
                          • Corner Canyon
                          • National Forest Service
OTHER CRITERIA            • Development regulations should offer incentives to
                            preserve land in these areas and to transfer any allowable
                            density to adjacent land containing few environmental
                            constraints
                          • Any development permitted in this area should be very low
                            density with development options that include clustering
                            to ensure special care be taken to minimize the impacts of
     Future Land Use        development on the natural character of the land
Growth Area

LAND USE DESCRIPTION
CHARACTERISTICS      • Requires a commitment to exceptional levels of quality and a
                              specific plan of development that meets the City’s approval
                            • Reduces automobile dependency with added benefits of
                              reducing traffic congestion and improving air quality
                            • Emphasis is placed on walking/bicycling to insure its
                              effectiveness in the overall circulation pattern of the site
                            • Scale based on the area’s character, to encourage
                              secondary forms of circulation
                            • Not bisected by arterial streets
                            • A well-conceived site, with access to and integration with
                              mass transit facilities
                            • Buildings designed per the standards of the City’s
                              design guidelines
                            • Amenities provided as per the quality design standards.
                            • Uniform design elements and themes, but a variety
                              of expression
                            • Campus-style development, well landscaped
                            • Integration of uses varying within areas and buildings
                            • A mix of uses for day and evening activity
                            • Aesthetic signage and lighting; limited use of pole signs
                            • Limited traffic access points
                            • Common off-street traffic circulation and parking
                            • Pedestrian access within and between projects
LAND USE MIX                • Multifamily residential
                            • Office
                            • Commercial
                            • Industrial/manufacturing
COMPATIBLE ZONING
                           Underlying Zoning
     Future Land
OTHER CRITERIA      Useresidential density is determined by the
              • Multifamily
                              quality of the proposed development.
APPENDIX D
Draper 2019 Survey Report




                            39
GENERAL PLAN SURVEY
OFFICIAL 2019 SURVEY OF DRAPER RESIDENTS
                                   SURVEY METHODOLOGY
          8K
                           7,968 Draper City residents were scientifically sampled from the Utah state
                           voter file and the Draper City utilities list. These residents were invited to
                           participate in an official survey of Draper City residents.
 SCIENTIFICALLY SELECTED




        1.3K
                           Invitations were sent via email and 1,286 residents throughout the City
                           completed the online survey.
REPRESENTATIVE RESPONSES
5
          1   Draper residents report a high quality of life that has
              been relatively consistent in the past 5 years.

          2   Residents are very pleased with the trails and nature in
              Draper.

          3   Residents’ major concerns are focused on managing
              growth and traffic.

          4   Residents are hesitant about new development, but the
              prison site is seen as a ripe opportunity for a variety of
              new development types.

          5   56% of residents would prefer to receive some degree
              more communication from Draper.




THINGS TO REMEMBER
HIGH OVERALL QUALITY OF LIFE
Q    All things considered, on a scale from 0 to 100, with 0 being very low and 100 being very high,
     how would you rate your overall quality of life in Draper? (n = 1,285)




                                                                          Average
                                                                        quality of life:
                                                                              84
9-OUT-OF-10 WOULD RECOMMEND DRAPER
Q   How likely are you to recommend the City of Draper to friends and family as a good place to live?
    (n = 1,286)




                            89%                 TOTAL LIKELY
                                                TO RECOMMEND
PLANNING FOR GROWTH IS THE TOP PRIORITY
Q   The elected officials of Draper have set priorities that they use to help them make decisions. Officials
    would like to know which of the following issues they should focus on over the next 5 years. Please
    select the item from the list below that you believe should be the city’s most important priority. (n =
    1,282)




                                                                             2X+
                                                                             MORE THAN THE NEXT
                                                                             MOST IMPORTANT PRIORITY
RESIDENTS MOST WORRIED ABOUT GROWTH/TRAFFIC
   Q             In your opinion, what is the most important issue facing Draper today? (n = 1,244)




“Making responsible decisions
regarding the development of         “Growing traffic and lack of
open land, and not allowing an       infrastructure to handle growth”
excess of high density housing”




 “Growth - need to plan                   “Constant apartment
 roads etc. for more people,              construction. Too many
 need to minimize multi-                  people for streets,
 unit housing, need to use                intersections, and traffic”
 the money in public
 schools more efficiently”
                                                                            Categorized and quantified responses to open-ended questions
GROWTH & PLANNING ARE IMPORTANT FUTURE CONCERNS
 Q            In your opinion, what is the most important issue facing Draper in the next 3-5 years? ( n = 1,244)



 “Development and indicators                “Controlling/limiting traffic through
 of more crime (panhandlers                 town and housing density”
 near freeways, homeless on
 the streets)”




                                                         “Development in face of
 “Allowing Draper to keep its vibe while                 growing population due to
 population growth occurs. Creating a balance            prison removal in a few
 between welcoming new residents and                     years”
 businesses without becoming a sprawl. Also
 trying to keep Draper affordable for families so
 they aren't driven out by higher costs of living”
                                                                                     Categorized and quantified responses to open-ended questions
DEVELOPMENT PREFERRED IN NON-RESIDENTIAL AREAS
Q   If additional _____ development were to take place in Draper, how would you prefer this
    development to take place? (n = 1246 – 1260)
MOST RESIDENTS ARE INTERESTED IN SEEING CURRENT PRISON
SITE HOST DEVELOPMENT
Q   If additional [commercial, mixed use, multi-family] development were to take place in Draper in a
    particular part of the city, where would you like to see it? Please select the area on the map below.
    (n = 943)




          Only one map shown due to the extreme similarities between where residents want all types of development.
