> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-09-01
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 1 
 
The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday, September 1, 2020, 
in an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to Salt Lake City Emergency 
Proclamation No. 2 of 2020(2)(b). 
 In Attendance: Council Members Chris Wharton, James Rogers, Andrew 
Johnston, Amy Fowler, Analia Valdemoros, Daniel Dugan, and Darin 
Mano. 
 Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive 
Director; Jennifer Bruno, Council Executive Deputy Director; Erin 
Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine 
Lewis, City Attorney; Lisa Shaffer, Mayor’s Deputy Chief of Staff; 
Nick Norris, Planning Director; Sam Owen, Council Policy Analyst; 
Molly Robinson, Planning Manager; Mayara Lima, Principal Planner; 
Robert Nutzman, Council Administrative Assistant; Blake Thomas, 
Community and Neighborhoods Director; Benjamin Luedtke, Council 
Policy Analyst, Nick Tarbet, Council Policy Analyst; Mary Beth 
Thompson, Chief Financial Officer; Jonathan Larsen, Transportation 
Director; Kim Thomas, Youth and Family Division Director; Lani 
Eggertsen-Goff, Housing and Neighborhood Development Director;; 
Nole Walkingshaw, Public Services Deputy Director; Keith Van Otten 
City Cemetery Sexton; Kelsey Lindquist, Senior Planner; Austin 
Kimmel, Council Constituent Liaison; Kristin Riker, Public Lands 
Deputy Director; Lee Bollwinkel, Parks Division Director; 
Christopher Thomas, Senior Energy and Climate Program Manager; 
Vicki Bennett, Sustainability Director; and Scott Crandall, Deputy 
City Recorder. 
 Guests in Attendance: Kathia Dang, Applicant (Item 7). 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 2:06 p.m. 2:06:16 PM 
 AGENDA ITEMS 
 #1. 2:07:35 PM Informational: Updates Relating to Mayor’s Proclamations Declaring Local Emergencies for COVID-19, March Earthquake, and Recent Protests. The Council will receive an update 
from the Administration about the Mayor’s emergency declarations 
relating to COVID-19 (coronavirus), the March 18th earthquake in 
the Salt Lake Valley, and recent protests in the City. As part of 
the update, the Council may discuss public health and other public 
safety, policy and budget issues stemming from the emergency 
events. The Administration may also provide information or updates

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 2 
 
from organizations or experts related to the emergency responses 
and coordination, including but not limited to earthquake damage 
to the City, the functioning of the Emergency Operations Center 
(EOC), City response and aid, and the status of City buildings. 
 Mayor Mendenhall provided information on the following: 
COVID-19 Status (including an informative video detailing the 
Administration’s plan for winter). 
• Five key points of the plan included information on how to 
deal with and overcome issues regarding the following during 
the pandemic: Health, Education & Childcare, Economic 
Support, Housing Stability & Homeless Services, and 
Operations & Services from the City. 
• The Community Commitment Program was reviewed which included 
information regarding the Neighborhood/Camp Cleanup Program. 
• Ongoing encampment resolution was reviewed and the need for 
partners clarified. Each area was to have a one to two-week 
intensive service outreach before cleanup was to take place. 
Resources included legal options, treatment options and 
housing options. Rachel Otto spoke on communication needs within the homeless 
population regarding camp cleanup so that individuals might be 
prepared and when to expect it. The Health Department had 
identified certain target areas that they have deemed a necessity 
based off health concerns, and alternative housing and funding 
were a priority before camping enforcement occurred. 
 
Councilmembers requested the following items from Staff: 
• Information on the responsibility of private property owners 
regarding camp cleanups and clarification on the hotline 
phone number to report violations. 
• Clarification on the list of focus areas for camp cleanups. 
• Clarification on where individuals might go who were 
experiencing homelessness. 
 #2. 2:51:59 PM Informational: Updates on Racial Equity and Policing. The Council will hold a discussion about recent efforts 
on various projects City staff are working on related to racial 
equity and policing in the City. The conversation may include 
issues of community concern about race, equity, and justice in 
relation to law enforcement policies, procedures, budget, and 
ordinances. Discussion may include:

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 3 
 
• An update or report on the newly created Commission on Racial 
Equity in Policing; and 
• Other project updates or discussion. 
 Jennifer Bruno said additional updates would be provided at 
a future meeting. 
 #3. 2:52:17 PM Informational: Updates on Relieving the Condition of People Experiencing Homelessness. The Council will 
hear updates and discuss issues pertaining to relieving the 
condition of people experiencing homelessness in neighborhoods 
throughout Salt Lake City. Mayor Mendenhall discussed the following with the Council: 
• Eviction Moratorium had lapsed at this time and Unemployment 
Aid in the amount of $600 had ended. 
• Raise Up Salt Lake City was providing debit cards for qualifying 
individuals with $500 towards any reasonable expense such as 
rent, groceries, etc. 
 #4. 2:54:23 PM Ordinance: Budget Amendment No.2 for Fiscal Year 2020-21 Follow-up Briefing. The Council will receive a follow-up 
briefing about an ordinance that would amend the final budget of 
Salt Lake City, including the employment staffing document, for 
Fiscal Year 2020-2021. Budget amendments happen several times each 
year to reflect adjustments to the City’s budgets, including 
proposed project additions and modifications. The proposed 
amendment includes infrastructure for publicly-accessible internet 
access, Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act 
funding for personnel costs related to pandemic response, 
expansion of the City’s Youth and Family program to help with 
childcare and education, and funding for housing assistance, among 
other items. View Attachments Benjamin Luedtke, Kim Thomas, and Nole Walkingshaw discussed 
the following with the Council: 
• $1.6 million Youth City program expansion proposal using one-
time funds, for a one-time program expansion. CARES Act 
funding to cover personnel expenses. $248,000 was anticipated 
for technology purchases. The goal of the program was to 
increase access for ongoing Child Care needs and increase 
Social Services. The program had also anticipated nutritional 
and technology device needs. There was one full-time employee

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 4 
 
(FTE) (Community Programs Manager) position available and was 
intended to be hired as part of the expansion. 
• Supporting the school district to ensure children had access 
to wi-fi and appropriate technology to successfully complete 
distanced learning. 
• The number of children in one group at a time. This number 
was three groups of 18 children with two adults at a time 
(determined by the Office of Childcare and Health Department 
Guidelines in relation to the pandemic). 
• Information regarding the program was to be distributed 
within the Salt Lake City School district by various means 
(including but not limited to Social Media). 
• 500 kids in Glendale and Poplar Grove that did not log in 
when school went remote in March of 2020. The goal was to 
reach these children. 
• Additional grant in the amount of $1.2 million to ensure the 
continuation of this program. 
 
Council Members requested the following items from Staff: 
• Clarification on how information for this program was being 
communicated to the community. 
• Clarification on the number of assistant teachers for support 
services. 
• Information regarding income restrictions to the program 
ensuring low-income needs were met. 
• Information on expanding the program long-term. 
 #5. 3:14:43 PM Ordinance: Text Amendments to the RMF-30 Low Density Multi-Family Residential Zoning District. The Council will 
be briefed about a proposal to amend the RMF-30 (Low Density Multi- 
Family Residential) Zoning District and corresponding sections of 
Salt Lake City’s Zoning Ordinance. The changes aim to remove zoning 
barriers to multi-family housing developments in RMF-30 zoned 
areas of the City. Petition No. PLNPCM2019-00313. Proposed changes 
include: 
1. Introducing design standards for all new development 
2. Allowing the construction of new building types including 
sideways row houses, cottage developments, and tiny houses 
3. Reducing minimum lot area requirements per unit 
4. Removing lot width minimum requirements 
5. Allowing more than one primary structure on a lot 
6. Granting a density bonus for the retention of an existing 
structure

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 5 
 
7. Introducing a lot width maximum to discourage land banking. View Attachments Nick Tarbet, Mayara Lima, Kelsey Lindquist, Nick Norris, and Lani Eggertsen-Goff briefed the Council with attachments. Comments 
included: 
• Study & Analysis by the Planning Division exposed changes 
when reviewing the City Master Plan. 
• Seven considerations to ensure the zoning district was 
functional and produced housing. 
• Zoning District Text Amendments were reviewed and proposed 
with the following purposes: 
1. Remove zoning barriers to development of housing. 
2. Promote compatible development. 
3. Encourage a variety of housing types. 
• Multi-Family developments were proposed in the amendments to 
increase City housing stock. 
• Changes proposed: 
1. Design Standards for new buildings 
2. New building forms 
3. Reduction of minimum lot area/unit 
4. Remove minimum lot width 
5. Multiple structures on a lot 
6. Unit bonus 
7. Lot width maximum 
• Community Concerns and Comments were as follows: 
1. Lack of affordable housing as a component of this 
amendment 
2. Displacement of existing units 
3. Potential demolition of historic structures 
• A Technical Committee was previously used to discuss planning 
within the City that included Attorney Staff, Planning Staff, 
Housing & Neighborhood Development (HAND) Staff, and Building 
Services. Addressing the ordinance and engaging a consultant 
was currently being discussed. 
 
Council Members requested the following items from Staff: 
• Information regarding affordable housing stock and how 
affordable housing options would be available. 
• Clarification on the height restrictions and an update on 
parking information.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 6 
 
#6. 3:58:30 PM Tentative Break 
 #7. 4:32:55 PM Ordinance: Zoning Map Amendment for 402 and 416 East 900 South Follow-up Briefing (Southeast Market). The Council 
will receive a follow-up briefing about an ordinance that would 
rezone the parcels located at 402 and 416 East 900 South to rezone 
those parcels from RB (Residential/Business District) and CN 
(Neighborhood Commercial District) to CB (Community Business 
District). Currently, these parcels fall within two different 
zoning districts and the parcel at 416 East Street is split zoned 
both RB and CN. The applicants would like to rezone to one zone 
for consistency. No development plans have been submitted at this 
time. Petition No. PLNPCM2018-01025. View Attachments Nick Tarbet, Molly Robinson, and Kathia Dang (applicant) 
briefed the Council with attachments. Comments included: 
• Community concerns at public hearing regarding re-zone. 
• Meeting was held in November of 2019 and another zone was 
reviewed. Request continued for CB Rezone. 
• Building must face 900 South. 
• Public Hearing was set for April 7, 2020 but was rescheduled 
due to the COVID-19 Pandemic and meeting arrangements. 
• Brew pubs and taverns were not allowed in the RB zone. 
• Within the CN zone, a bar was a Conditional Use. 
• Applicant spoke on the agreement including information regarding 
the existing building being used as a commercial business for 
80 years, no intention to change the footprint, wanting to be 
able to bring the property back to life, and structural issues 
causing a liability if not addressed. 
 #8. 4:50:14 PM Informational: County Sales Tax for Transportation Projects. The Salt Lake County fourth quarter-cent 
sales tax for transportation funding is a new, ongoing funding 
source dedicated to transportation. The Council will be briefed 
about the Administration’s proposed projects for Fiscal Year 2021. 
Funding includes $1.5 million for improvements to prepare for 
frequent transit bus service on 600 North and 1000 North, $800,000 
for improvements to the 9-Line Trail and Folsom Trail, and $200,000 
for alleyway maintenance, among other items. View Attachments Benjamin Luedtke, Blake Thomas, and Jennifer Bruno briefed 
the Council with attachments. Comments included:

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 7 
 
• Second year of the funding source available to the City due 
to ongoing sales tax available to the City. 
• $58 million County-wide in the recent year and $4.7 million 
specifically within Salt Lake City. 
• Funding was split per State law (40% of revenue going to Utah 
Transit Authority (UTA), 40% divided between the cities, and 
remaining 20% going to the County). 
• Used to develop new roads or enhance current roads. 
• Used to fund transit enhancement as well as maintenance and 
upkeep of current facilities. 
• 10 of the 11 projects totaling $6.9 million was placed into 
a holding account. 
• Council included a budget contingency which stated the 
funding was being held pending the Administration briefing 
the Council. 
• Funding to be included in Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) 
in future years. 
• Potential contingency if there were revenue short falls, due 
to it being a sales tax revenue. 
 Jonathan Larsen specifically spoke on: 
• Quality Transportation Improvement Program (QTIP) having two 
phases. 
• Creating a data driven process to ensure decision processes 
were easier. 
• GIS Based Scoring was reviewed which included equity data. 
• Transportation QTIP Process Example Map was reviewed. 
• Equity consideration per district was requested. 
• 11 current projects included: 
Urban Trails (Fund Balance Fiscal Year (FY) 2020) 
o Multi-Modal intersection and traffic signal upgrades (Fund 
Balance FY2020) 
o Neighborhood Street Safety and Livability (Fund Balance 
FY2020) 
o 600 North/1000 North Bus Service Start Up Investment 
o Urban Trails Development 
o Complete Streets Reconstruction (Class C Bond Money) 
o Alleyway Maintenance and Re-pavement 
o Trail Maintenance 
o Maintenance of Multi-Modal Infrastructure 
o Community Engagement

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 8 
 
Mary Beth Thompson reviewed the following: 
• Funding from the Tax Commission into Salt Lake City’s 
Transportation Fund would be deposited monthly as Sales Tax 
did. 
 
Councilmembers requested the following items from Staff: 
• Clarification regarding input screening. 
• Clarification regarding transferring the project to CIP. 
• Clarification regarding GIS Scoring against current project and 
how they ranked. 
 Straw Poll: Support for the Council to recognize the intent 
for QTIP was a mechanism for evaluating Transportation projects, 
and for Transportation funds and projects to go through the CIP 
process. All Council Members were in favor. 
 #9. 5:49:53 PM Informational: Draft Cemetery Master Plan Update 
The Council will be briefed about the updated draft Master 
Plan for The Salt Lake City Cemetery. The City’s 120-acre cemetery 
is located in the Avenues neighborhood and opened officially in 
1849. It is facing challenges similar to those experienced by other 
historic cemeteries, including dwindling capacity, limited 
expansion opportunities and funding challenges. The draft Master 
Plan includes ideas and recommendations to capitalize on the 
cemetery as a valuable community open space and provide 
recommendations to fund its deferred maintenance and perpetual 
care. View Attachments Austin Kimmel, Kristin Riker, Lee Bollwinkel, Keith Van Otten, Mayor Mendenhall, and Jennifer Bruno briefed the Council 
with attachments. Comments Included: 
• Three primary purposes of the Master Plan: 
1. Preservation and management of the cemetery 
2. Expand access to appropriate uses of the cemetery 
3. Address the future financial sustainability of the cemetery 
 
The Administration provided funding recommendations and 
provided information regarding the following: 
• Currently less than 400 grave sites left. 
• Nominate cemetery to National Registry of Historic Places. 
• Preservation Management Plan. 
• Historic Documentation & Investigation. 
• Protect and stabilize damaged gravestones.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 9 
 
• Trees & Vegetation Preservation Plan was reviewed. 
• Preservation & management of the cemetery deferred maintenance. 
• Roadway Conditions Analysis was reviewed to determine necessary 
repairs. 
• Updated 2020 Cost Breakdown regarding capital needs was 
reviewed. 
• Next steps included a public hearing scheduled for September 
15, 2020, with the Council scheduled to vote on adoption shortly 
after. 
 #10. 6:14:38 PM Informational: Municipal Renewable Energy Project Update. The Council will receive a briefing about the 
Administration’s recent efforts to align more City operations with 
renewable energy resources. The update primarily includes a solar 
project opportunity and City financial impacts for repowering 
municipal electricity needs with renewable energy. View Attachments Sam Owens, Christopher Thomas, and Vicki Bennett briefed the 
Council with attachments. Comments included: 
• Solar Power supporting municipal operations; 2.8 gigawatt 
(GW) from on-site generation, 7.2 GW from subscriber solar, 
and now 100 GW from utility-scale (6-customer collaboration 
to build new Utah solar farm. 
• Procurement timeline, including: March 2019 - requests for 
proposal (RFP) issued by RMP and six customers, October 2019 
-renewable contract filed with Utah Public Service 
Commission, February 2020 - Renewable Contract Approved, 
September 2020 - currently in the process of finalizing 
appendix language/providing input on power purchase agreement 
with both expecting to be signed/approved, and project 
expected to go online no later than December 2022 (with full 
production of the project seen in calendar year 2023). 
• Power contract runs through Rocky Mountain Power 
• Expecting to procure 100 GW hours of solar electricity 
annually (long-term goal) 
• Project allowing Salt Lake City to meet joint 50% renewable 
electricity target (starting in 2023 forward) 
• Schedule 34 adder (rate schedule) – while paying for normal 
electric service – accounts enrolled for Solar Electricity 
would pay an additional $1.49 per megawatt (MW)-Hour consumed 
• Anticipated annual cost impact of 1.46%

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 10 
 
• Energy Balancing Account surcharges would include two 
adjustments per year 
• Protection from annual adjustments for those enrolled in the 
solar resource STANDING ITEMS 
 #11. 6:39:08 PM REPORT OF THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR. 
 
No discussion was held. 
 #12. 6:39:27 PM REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INCLUDING A REVIEW OF COUNCIL INFORMATION ITEMS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Council 
may give feedback or staff direction on any item related to City 
Council business, including but not limited to Virtual ULCT 2020 
Annual Convention and Scheduling Items. 
 
See File M 20-5 for announcements. 
 #13. CONSIDER A MOTION TO ENTER INTO CLOSED SESSION, IN KEEPING WITH UTAH CODE §52-4-205 FOR ANY ALLOWED PURPOSE. 
 Item not held. 
 The Work Session meeting adjourned at 6:41 p.m. 
 
Minutes Approved on May 4, 2021 
 
_______________________________ 
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
CITY RECORDER 
 
This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held 
September 1, 2020. 
 
sc/kt 
Chris Wharton (Jun 3, 2021 15:07 MDT)
Cindy Trishman (Jun 8, 2021 08:54 MDT)

09-01-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes
(approved 05-04-21)
Final Audit Report 2021-06-08
Created:2021-06-03
By:Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAJSrnzplaLRh3c_P6Y6I4-CcLvy8Pyyev
"09-01-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes (approved 05-04-21)" 
History
Document created by Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
2021-06-03 - 4:10:43 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-06-03 - 4:11:31 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-06-03 - 9:07:04 PM GMT- IP address: 73.20.17.210
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-06-03 - 9:07:20 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 73.20.17.210
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-06-03 - 9:07:22 PM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-06-08 - 2:54:20 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Agreement completed.
2021-06-08 - 2:54:20 PM GMT
