                     MINUTES OF A WORK AND REGULAR SESSION
                      OF THE VINEYARD CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                  City Council Chambers, 125 South Main Street, Vineyard, Utah
                                    August 14, at 6:00 PM
                                      _______________

Present                                             Absent
Mayor Julie Fullmer
Councilmember John Earnest
Councilmember Tyce Flake
Councilmember Chris Judd
Councilmember Nate Riley

Staff Present: City Manager Jacob McHargue, Public Works Director/City Engineer Don
Overson, Assistant City Engineer Chris Wilson, City Attorney David Church, Sergeant Holden
Rockwell and Deputy Chad Stilson with the Utah County Sheriff’s Office, Community
Development Director Morgan Brim, Planning Commission Chair Cristy Welsh, City Planner
Elizabeth Hart, City Recorder Pamela Spencer, Records Management Assistant/Deputy Recorder
Kelly Kloepfer, Building Official George Reid, Water/Parks Manager Sullivan Love, Planning
Commissioners Bryce Brady and Anthony Jenkins

Others Speaking: Residents Matt Geddes, Cameron Hargis, Nathan Newell, Amber Rasmussen,
Lorie Ann Warr, Gavin Winkel, Aubrey Bills, Katria Lesser, Steve Friedmann, Ashleigh Moore,
Justin Jones, Brandon Homer, Stacey Huff, Jenna Rasmussen, Juventa and David Vezzani,
David Lauret, Wayne Holdaway, Claudia Lauret, Jeff Thomsen, Tanner Lamb; UTA Trustee
Kent Millington


1.      CALL TO ORDER/PLEDGE OF
     ALLEGIANCE/INVOCATION/INSPIRATIONAL THOUGHT

Mayor Fullmer opened the meeting at 6:00 PM. Councilmember Judd lead the Pledge of
Allegiance and gave the invocation.


6:00 PM          WORK SESSION


2.         DISCUSSION – Elms, Meadows, Cottonwoods and Sycamores Subdivisions
     This work session is to discuss the City Council’s areas of focus, promote community
     planning by identifying local needs and concerns, improve City communication with
     residents, and apply City-wide plans to the neighborhood level.

Mayor Fullmer went over the protocol for the work session. She explained that some of the
residents had sent in their concerns and that staff members would be responding to them tonight.
She turned the time over to City Manager Jacob McHargue.

Mr. McHargue stated that there had been several emails about weeds. He said that Mr. Love who
handled the parks and trail maintenance explained to him that they had signed a new contract
with TruGreen and they had been out spraying, so residents should be seeing some improvement.
Mr. Love explained that with the wet weather and a new contractor it had created a slow start to

Page 1 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
the weed season. He said that the contractor had been retreating areas. He added that staff and
council had also been to working on weed control. Mr. McHargue mentioned that some of the
neighborhood groups had also done weed treatments. He said that there would be some
volunteers coming into the city to help as well. He wanted the residents to know that staff was
aware of the issues.

Mr. McHargue explained that the extension of Quivira Lane in The Meadows subdivision to
Center Street was an additional access road which had not been installed yet. He explained that
the additional access lane was required, by the International Fire Code, because of the number of
homes in the subdivision. Mr. Reid stated that it was a fire apparatus access road. Mr. McHargue
said the it had not yet been designed or presented to City Council and that he would let the
residents know when that would happen. He mentioned that a few of the residents had sent
proposals for the road to staff.

Mayor Fullmer mentioned the that there had been questions about the plan for the open space.
Mr. McHargue explained that an Urban Design student had asked to take on the open space
design for a final project for a class. Mr. McHargue explained that there were several wetlands
in the city that would be re-delineated in the future and not all of them would remain wetlands.
He said the student used all of the open space in the city for his design. He mentioned that the
student’s project would be presented during a work session at the next City Council meeting. He
stated that there had been no approvals made nor had it been presented to the City Council in a
formal fashion. It was only a research project to identify what land they thought might be
available and some potential uses for it. Mayor Fullmer stated that if it were to be presented to
council for approval it would not be at the next meeting when the student’s project would be
presented, but that it would have to go through the public process. Mr. Brim explained that the
project was to simply present the city with some ideas that the open space could be used for. He
further explained that they would take these recommendations under advisement. He added that
it would have to go through an official process and would become part of the General Plan. He
mentioned that this process would take at least 6 months to complete once started.

Mayor Fullmer asked Mr. McHargue to explain the second access into the parking lot at the city
offices. Mr. McHargue explained that it was a potential second access point into the parking lot,
which was required if they were to put a public safety use onto the lot.

Resident Matt Geddes in the Meadows expressed appreciation to the city for the hours spent
serving the community and the time set aside for this discussion. He stated that he was opposed
to the connection of Quivira Lane to Center Street. He said the he had learned that the
subdivision was required to have a “Fire Apparatus Access Road.” He read the definition of the
required access road. He said that by definition the access was not required to be a public
thoroughfare. He felt that there were multiple solutions as defined in the code that would not
create a public thoroughfare. He said that he understood that safety was a primary concern of the
council and city staff. He stated that the fire code had been written in a way to promote safety to
the community. He said that his primary concern was safety, and read statistics published by the
Center for Disease Control and Prevention, where they stated that accidents were the number one
cause of death for children ages one to fourteen. He mentioned that there were at least 100
children living in The Meadows subdivision in that age range. He felt that creating the
connection would increase traffic flow into and through the neighborhood. He said that as
citizens and members in The Meadows subdivision, they were the primary stakeholders impacted
by the decision made. He asked that the city hear their concerns and make the decision they
desired. He suggested that the city could either install a landscaped access point or a crash gate.



Page 2 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Resident Cameron Hargis living in The Meadows subdivision expressed concern about the
second access point coming into the building. He said that he had done a petition with almost
100 signatures in opposition of the second access into the city office’s parking lot. He was
concerned with the heavy bike trail use and the children playing in the water retention area. He
said that Mr. McHargue had explained that they would need that second access entrance if they
were to build a fire station there. Mr. Hargis said that he had heard that they were going to build
the fire station off of 800 North. He suggested that if they were not going to build a fire station
next to the city offices that they remove the second entrance. He stated that his other concern was
the wetlands. He said that he was told when he moved in that the wetlands would never be
touched. He mentioned that the student’s proposal was to put a skate park, pump track, etc., in
the wetlands that back his home. Mayor Fullmer reiterated that if they were to design the open
space it would have to go through a public process with public input. She stated that this project
was done by a student who had ideas of what could be in the open space. She said that residents
did not need to worry about any changes until they went through a public process. Mr. Hargis
said they he just wanted to express how the residents felt about that land. He mentioned that
there were parents who had children with special needs but were unable to attend tonight’s
meeting who were also concerned about the second access point into the neighborhood from
Quivira Lane.

Resident Nathan Newell living in The Meadows subdivision said he was aware of the city’s
plans to expand Gammon Park to the west. He said that in past meetings, city officials had
reassured residents that this would be a low-key memorial heritage-type park that would not be a
disturbance. He said the in June the city displayed a proposal of what could possibly be
implemented. He felt that there were major concerns with these plans. He explained how
Nielsen’s Grove Park in Orem City was used and that there was little to no crime in the park. He
felt that the new plans suggested for Gammon Park were not desirable to the residents of The
Meadows subdivision and that it would be a liability to the city. He also felt that this plan should
not come from one person’s ideas but should come from the residents. He said that there was a
major safety concern with connecting The Meadows subdivision to Center Street. He felt that
there was no need for the road. He said that if a park were to be put in place like the one
proposed, it would attract a lot of people and funnel foot and vehicle traffic through the
residential neighborhood that backed it. He felt that the attraction should be accessed off of main
roads and not residential roads. He expressed concern with enforcement when crimes occur. He
said that the city currently did not have enough manpower in place. He felt that two on-duty
deputies were not enough to protect the city. He explained that the national understanding was to
have one officer per 1,000 residents. He said that to his knowledge, Vineyard only had four full-
time deputies to split the week. He said that Vineyard had only a quarter of the manpower they
should, which caused the city and residents stress and the deputies to be reactive instead of
proactive on enforcement. He felt that the city needed to make it a priority to have the proper
number of responders. He also felt that there would be time to build excessive attractions later
and that the area was not set up for the amount of attractions as shown in the plan. He felt that
the best fit for the city was to build a low-key park and not put in the connecting road. Sergeant
Rockwell stated that there were eight full-time deputies assigned to the city. He explained that he
supervised seven deputies and that they ran 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. He added that they
also had use of the deputies from the north end of the County. He mentioned that their response
times were just under 5 minutes, which met or exceeded what other agencies were doing. He said
that Vineyard had mostly rooftops so they did not get as many calls as they would if there more
businesses. He said that they would address the number of deputies as Vineyard continued to
grow. Mayor Fullmer stressed that the council had focused on getting 24-hour coverage in the
city and felt that they had put the need for first responders first.



Page 3 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Resident Amber Rasmussen living in The Meadows subdivision explained that she had
submitted a proposal for the Gammon Park/farm land to be a conservation park, which would be
a native habitat. She said that she would like the council and staff to consider her proposal for the
entire city. She suggested using hardscapes and native wild flowers. She felt that there was a
treasure in Vineyard with the native wildlife and that they should stop destroying it. Mayor
Fullmer mentioned that she had sent her ideas to the city planner. Councilmember Flake stated
that he agreed with Ms. Rasmussen’s concerns. He mentioned the tree manual that the city had
produced for the developers to use. Mayor Fullmer said that this was a community and as ideas
came in, they would come together to make a collaborative effort to benefit the entire city.

Resident Lorie Ann Warr living in The Elms subdivision asked if they could create a road from
Quivira Lane to Center Street that would be more of a parking lot, so that the speed limit was
very low and the area was seen as a parking lot.

Resident Bryce Brady living in The Elms subdivision stated that his biggest concern was with
people using Zinfandel Lane, thinking they could get to 400 South. He said that there had been
several suggestions such as dead-end signs or speed bumps. He said that there was a dead-end
sign but it needed to be bigger. He expressed concern with the speed at which people were
driving down their road once they discovered that there really was no outlet. He added that there
were a lot of children playing in his neighborhood.

Resident Gavin Winkel living in The Elms subdivision expressed the same concerns as Mr.
Brady. He recommended that the city make it clearer that there was no outlet from Zinfandel to
Holdaway Road. He suggested that if there were to be an outlet added in the future, that the city
add a slowing mechanism.

Resident Aubrey Bills living in The Elms subdivision suggested that the city add a sign on Main
Street, stating that there was no outlet before people got to their neighborhood. Mr. Overson
explained that there was a traffic control plan process that residents could go through. He
mentioned that residents in The Elms had already gone through this process to get the no outlet
sign installed. He felt that it was a good idea to put a no outlet sign on Main Street south of 170
South. Councilmember Earnest asked if they could put a dead-end sign instead. Mr. Overson
reiterated the process to submit a proposal for traffic control. He suggested that they could add
more information on the sign.

Resident Katria Lesser living in The Elms subdivision suggested that if the wetlands/open space
were to ever be developed that it could become more of a park or common area for the children
to use. She also suggested that they add sufficient parking.

Mr. Brady suggested that they extend 400 South to Main Street before they install an outlet onto
Holdaway Road in The Elms subdivision.

Resident Steve Friedmann living in The Meadows subdivision asked that the city take the
comments given tonight into consideration instead of extending the road out. He said that most
of the residents in the neighborhood were against adding the road and the safety risk that it
would create. He mentioned that he had seen cars doing donuts in the park and the residents were
picking up empty alcohol bottles. He said the biggest thing was the requirement on having the
second access road into the neighborhood. Mr. Reid explained that more than 29 homes required
a second access. He said that there was a provision in the code that stated that the Fire Code
Official could allow a future access to be in place so the developer could build more homes. He
explained that the code was in place for safety purposes. He gave a scenario as to why the second
access was required. He mentioned that there were other options for the second access. He said
Page 4 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
that there were many factors involved and one was maintenance. Mayor Fullmer said that they
would look at the alternatives and explore the safety data to make sure that was installed would
meet the needs for the community.

Mr. Friedmann asked about the timing on building the road. Mr. McHargue replied that they had
not started the design, but there was money in the budget for it. Mayor Fullmer stated that the
money was in the budget for this fiscal year. Mr. Overson explained that they were trying to
redevelop Gammon Park and include the 11 acres just of west of it, so they had not come up with
a plan yet. He said that they did not want to put the road through until they knew the plan. Mr.
Church clarified that before the development was built there was a plan for the community that
included The Meadows subdivision. At that time the 11-acre parcel was privately owned. The
subdivision was designed in anticipation that the property would be sold and developed. It was
never designed as a dead end. He said that those plans could be changed because the city now
owned the property. As part of the city’s future plan the city still had to take care of the
minimum requirements of the fire code and safe traffic code. If the city had not purchased the
land there would have been a road there to Center street. Mr. Friedmann asked the city to make
sure they were part of the public process. Mr. McHargue mentioned that the city made an effort
to reach out to the residents. He stated that he would like to know how many residents received
and read the newsletter, agendas, social media posts, etc. Mayor Fullmer suggested that the
residents read the newsletters and follow the social media sites, so they could see when issues
would be addressed. She also suggested that residents nominate a person from their communities
to repost the city’s social media posts. Mr. McHargue suggested that residents allow someone
from the city to post on the neighborhood’s social media sites.

Ms. Rasmussen asked about water connections. Mayor Fullmer explained that the city would use
the roads to put utilities underneath them. Mr. Overson explained that they needed to loop to The
Elms and The Meadows subdivisions water lines, so they had a water source from more than one
direction. He added that it could be under a road or in a parking lot.

Resident Ashleigh Moore living in The Meadows subdivision felt that the city was trying to
create the same problem in The Meadows that The Elms had with people trying to get through
the subdivision. She mentioned that she had a relative killed in a neighborhood because someone
was speeding and the residents here were just trying to protect their neighborhood. Mayor
Fullmer stated that one of the important things was that the city would be looking at all options.
She said that the idea was not to move traffic through, but to follow the International Fire Code,
which was outside of the city’s regulations. She said that they want to protect people. She gave
an example of an incident in the city where someone almost bled out because the ambulance
could not get through. She said that their stories were not falling on deaf ears and what they
ended up with would be because it was the safest for the neighborhood.

Resident Justin Jones living in The Meadows subdivision said that when he was speaking with
other residents, they realized that a second access would happen, but wanted to know what type
of access it had to be. He said that he had heard about risk mitigation and how they do that. He
mentioned that he did risk mitigation in his job. He explained that they pay attention to mortality
trends, and the number one killer of children was mostly traffic accidents. He felt that to satisfy
both demands, the solution would be to make it an emergency only access.

Resident Brandon Homer living in The Meadows subdivision stated that he was strongly
opposed to the access on Quivira Lane being a thoroughfare. He said that 90% of the
neighborhood was opposed to an outlet to Center Street. He felt that the probability of a child
getting hit because of more traffic entering The Meadows versus the unlikely probability of an

Page 5 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
emergency vehicle getting stuck at that inlet was much higher. He hoped that they could come up
with a better solution other than opening the road to Center Street.

Resident Stacey Huff living in The Meadows subdivision asked if there were plans to repair the
sidewalk in Gammon Park. Mayor Fullmer replied that there were.

Resident Juventa Vezzani living in The Meadows subdivision asked when the wetlands would be
on the docket for discussion. Councilmember Judd asked for clarification. Ms. Vezzani asked
when changes would affect the wetlands. Councilmember Judd explained that the Army Corps of
Engineers would have to delineate the wetlands, which was a lengthy process. Mayor Fullmer
said that the idea would be to involve the residents and that they were not able to tie a timeline to
it. Mr. Overson explained that the wetlands were delineated in 2005 and during the process, two
irrigation wells were plugged and now the wetlands were drying up. He said that if they were to
bring in the Army Corps of Engineers to re-delineate the wetlands and they were to see grass
clippings, trees, etc. being thrown in them, the city would be fined upwards of $10,000 a day
until the wetlands were brought back to their original delineation. He asked the residents to make
sure they kept the wetlands pristine. Mr. Church explained that it was delineated as wetlands and
as long as the city maintained that delineation nothing would happen to it. He said that if the
neighborhood’s conduct was such that it became a problem to the city, then it would be in the
city’s best interest to attempt to have the area re-delineated as non-wetlands and actively manage
it. He explained that if the city were to actively manage the area, then decisions would need to be
made as to how they would be used. He said that one of the frustrations was that because it was
wetlands it did not mean that people could dump things there and that there was a
recommendation to take it out of the wetlands to avoid any risk of fines and then repurpose the
property. Mayor Fullmer explained that the land was owned by the city but the wetlands were
governed the Army Corps of Engineers. She mentioned that at one time the city had a drying bed
on this property and it had since been relocated. Councilmember Judd mentioned that there was a
liability to the city and asked residents to let the city know if they saw any violations. He said
that if someone were to build things in the wetlands the city would have to take them down.

Ms. Vezzani asked about green waste collection. Mayor Fullmer replied that the city did not
have green waste removal but residents could take it to Timpanogos Special Service District.
Mr. McHargue mentioned that a green waste can would be more expensive than a garbage can
and that it would be going to the same dump. He suggested that residents get a second garbage
can for their green waste.

Mayor Fullmer closed the work session at 7:11 PM.


7:11 PM      REGULAR SESSION
Mayor Fullmer opened the regular session at 7:11 PM.


3.        PRESENTATION – UTA
     UTA Trustee Kent Millington will do a presentation on Utah Transit Authority’s (UTA)
     current services as well as discuss community engagement and future service planning.

Mayor Fullmer turned the time over to UTA Trustee Kent Millington.

Trustee Kent Millington explained that his purpose for being here was to update the city on the
FrontRunner Station and the double track. He said that UTA had applied for a $25 million grant

Page 6 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
from the Federal Transit Authority (FTA). Some of that money would be used to finish the
design of and to build the FrontRunner station in Vineyard and to double track the two miles
north of the station towards American Fork. He said that the operation of FrontRunner was now
affected by newly mandated positive train control for the protection of riders on commuter rail.
He explained that UTA was impacted because they only had single track on 75 percent of their
lines. He said that they were looking to double track the area between Vineyard and American
Fork, so trains could pass each other. He explained that the grant application was for $25 million,
UTA had $12 million, and the entire project would cost $37 million. The project did not only
include Vineyard but included double tracking between Draper and South Jordan, signage, and
other improvement at all three of these stations. He said that UTA anticipated hearing back on
the grant sometime in November 2019. He explained that they were already spending some of
their local match funds for the design, engineering, and an environmental study, so that they
could move forward quickly, as soon as they got approval on the grant. He mentioned that the
Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) had already done some work on the Vineyard
Connector.

Mayor Fullmer clarified that Trustee Millington was talking about the $4 million given to them
by the legislature and that there were additional funds for the environmental study. Trustee
Millington explained that they were using $400,000 of the $4 million for the environmental
study and engineering work. He said that as part of the application they were claiming the
remaining $3.5 million as a local match along with $8 million in additional funds, giving them a
total local match of $12 million. He said that Vineyard was a priority and if they did not receive
all of the $25 million, Vineyard’s project would still move forward. He mentioned they had
already hired an engineer who would also be doing the environmental study, so that when they
received the funds, they could move quickly and start construction in the spring. He said that
they anticipated having the project completed by the final quarter of 2020.

Mayor Fullmer asked if they would be applying the TTIF this fall. Trustee Millington replied
that they would be. He said that they had requested an additional $5 million from the legislature,
but had been delayed because of the taxation debate in the legislature. He added that they would
continue their request into the interim sessions. They would be pushing hard to get that funding
so they could move the projects forward, even if they did not get any funds from the FTA. Mayor
Fullmer asked if UTA had any plans to use the money set aside from the fourth quarter sales tax
revenue on these projects if the grant did not come through, and the legislature did not give them
the additional $5 million. Trustee Millington replied that there was no guarantee that they would
come up with the funding. He said that the entire FrontRunner operation hinged on getting
Vineyard done so they could get any bugs in the system worked out. He said that they had been
working hard with the FTA and had made the proposal to the governor and the FTA to double
track all the way from Payson to Brigham City. Mayor Fullmer asked what the City Council
could do, because this project significantly impacted the economic growth and the RDA in
Vineyard. Trustee Millington suggested that they reach out to their legislatures and express to
them how import these projects were not only to their community, but to Utah County. He
mentioned that on August 22, they were having a visit to the UVX bus line and that the Utah
County Legislators had been invited and suggested that the council join them. He also mentioned
that UVX had carried about 2.3 million people since they started the service in August of last
year.

Mr. McHargue asked if any of the $12 million funds mentioned included a local match from the
city. Trustee Millington replied that it did not at this point.




Page 7 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Fullmer said that she appreciated UTA’s hard work. Trustee Millington stated that they
would keep the city updated on the progress of the grant. He mentioned that the mayor served on
UTA’s Local Advisory Council.


4.       PUBLIC COMMENTS

Mayor Fullmer opened the public comment session.
Resident David Lauret living on Holdaway Road presented a traffic calming plan for Holdaway
Road. He read a quote by Mayor Fullmer from an article in the Daily Herald. He said that a
group of citizens had gotten together because they felt that there was a problem on Holdaway
Road with increased traffic flow in excess of 500 trips a day. He explained that it was a narrow
road, with no sidewalks, bike lanes, or buffers. It was designed and intended to be a local road,
which they felt had been allowed to grow into an arterial road. The group felt that this was a
danger to the residents on this road. They were applying as the process required, had organized a
committee, and now needed to meet with city staff. Mr. Lauret stated that the group really
wanted to see some positive change. He said that a big part of the solution would be to complete
400 South to Main Street, but it was private property. He mentioned that people had started
avoiding Vineyard Road because of the design and since the traffic circle was too small for
school buses and delivery trucks. He added that Global Positioning System (GPS) applications
were taking traffic down Holdaway Road. He said that the committee would like to see some
reasonable short-term things done such as shoulder striping, striping for bike lanes, and
installation of a trail on Holdaway Road that would connect from Gammon Road to the sports
park in Orem for students to use. Mayor Fullmer stated they would look at their proposal and
start the process.

Resident Wayne Holdaway living on Holdaway Road suggested that they park cars along the
road to slow traffic.

Resident Claudia Lauret living on Holdaway Road explained that she learned from the owners of
the property where Main Street could connect to 400 South, that they had tried to talk to the city
about the road. She said that living on Holdaway Road, she had to cross the street to get her mail
and did not dare do it at night. He mentioned that there were three (3) handicapped children on
the road. She suggested using a flashing sign to remind drivers to slow down. She thanked the
first responders for their help when she needed it.

Resident Jeff Thomsen living on Holdaway Road said that his biggest concern was with safety
when his child or anyone got close to the street. He said that the group was looking for traffic
control to slow the traffic down. Mayor Fullmer asked for clarification on the application. Mr.
Thomsen replied that they were looking for something like a reminder to slow down, such as a
flashing sign. Councilmember Judd asked if staff had provided, to the citizen committee, the data
from flashing speed limit signs in the Sleepy Ridge subdivision. He felt that there should be
some good data for them to review.

There was a discussion about the flashing signs in The Sleepy Ridge subdivision and how long
the process would take.

Resident Tanner Lamb living in The Meadows Subdivision mentioned that he had great
experiences in working with the city and supported the Holdaway Road proposal.



Page 8 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Resident David Vezzani living in The Meadows subdivision said that he would start taking
Vineyard Road because of the residents’ concerns. He expressed concern about the right turn on
green only sign at 400 South and Geneva Road. He also expressed concern with children running
across 400 South during soccer games and a fence that was built too close to the road near
Vineyard Elementary. Mayor Fullmer explained that the light on 400 South and Geneva Road
was a UDOT light and was located in Orem City. She mentioned that UDOT had a link on their
website for submitting complaints. She said that city was working on moving the stop sign and
sidewalk out so that there would not be a blind spot because of the fence. Mr. McHargue
mentioned that most of the design had to be approved through Orem City.

Mr. Hargis asked about the water costs going up. He mentioned that there were two (2) tiers for
water rates and suggested that the city add a third tier. Mr. McHargue explained that the city
would be doing a financial sustainability plan to look at the utility rates, impact fees, and any
impact the RDA had on the city. He said that the tiers existed to meet the state code and would
be modified after the study was completed. Mr. Hargis mentioned that the EyeOnWater app was
good to have. Mr. McHargue explained that the app would soon be available for all residents.
Councilmember Riley stated that the city had been subsidizing almost all of the utility funds at
great expense. He said that the city had to increase the utility rates to get them to a point where
the city was not subsidizing them. Mr. McHargue explained that the past fiscal year was the first
time ever the fund did not require subsidizing. Councilmember Judd mentioned that they were
also not collecting funds for replacement reserves. Mr. McHargue explained that most of utilities
were new and they were doing the sustainability plan to help put policies in place for maintaining
the infrastructure.

Mayor Fullmer closed the public comment session.


5. WRITTEN PUBLIC COMMENTS
   Written comments are to be submitted to the City Recorder by noon the Tuesday before the
   regularly held Wednesday City Council meeting. This is to allow comments from persons
   who are unable to attend this meeting in person.

No written comments were submitted.


6. MAYOR AND COUNCILMEMBERS’ REPORTS/DISCLOSURES/RECUSALS
There were no new items to report.


7. STAFF, COMMISSION, AND COMMITTEE REPORTS
City Manager – Jacob McHargue – Mr. McHargue had no new items to report.

Public Works Director/City Engineer – Don Overson – Mr. Overson had no new items to report.

City Attorney – David Church – Mr. Church had no new items to report.

      Utah County Sheriff’s Office – Sergeant Holden Rockwell – Sergeant Rockwell presented
his quarterly report. Highlights were:




Page 9 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
  QTR.         Total        Officer         Public             Case     Arrests   Traffic   Citations
               CAD         Generated       Generated          Numbers             Stops
               Calls         Calls           Calls

 1st Qtr.      2275           1357             918              322       48       880        207
 2nd Qtr.      2123            982            1141              374       75       502        142

Response Times Qtr. 1:                            Response Times Qtr. 2:
Priority 1-2           5:14                       Priority 1-2           4:57
Priority 1-2 calls      243                       Priority 1-2 calls      333

Nature of incidents Qtr. 1:                       Nature of incidents Qtr. 2:
Burglary/Theft              25                    Burglary/Theft             16
Assault/Domestic Violence 27                      Assault/Domestic Violence 27
Drugs/Alcohol               23                    Drugs/Alcohol               27

Community Development Director – Morgan Brim & Planning Commission Chair – Cristy
Welsh – Mr. Brim and Chair Welsh had no new items to report.

City Recorder – Pamela Spencer – Ms. Spencer had no new items to report.

     Building Official – George Reid – Mr. Reid presented the 4th quarter report for Fiscal Year
2018-2019. He mentioned that the city was seeing a slowing trend to a manageable growth.
Highlights of the report were:

Revenue
    • $199,272.89 Residential
    • $44,755.09         Commercial
He mentioned that in 2017 they were doing that amount in a month. He said that they finished
out the fiscal year at just under $1 million. They issued 550 permits in 2018 and their record year
was about 850.

Residential Occupancy Breakdown
   • 3,602 Units Occupied
   • 1,521 Single Family
   • 1,086 Multifamily
   •     995 Townhomes
   •     705 Units Under Construction (not included in the total units occupied)
   • 13, 896 Estimated Population
Units Permitted
   •    53 Single Family
Active Permits
   • 263 Active Construction Sites
   • 1998 Total Inspections
Buildout Analysis
   • 1797 platted units left (does not include the un-platted, such as the lake side project)

Councilmember Judd pointed out that revenues were directly tied to expenses in the building
department. There was a discussion about the state code. Mr. Church explained that the city
could not use building permit fees to subsidize the city expenses. Mr. Reid mentioned the
Page 10 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
building department had lost three (3) employees in the last six weeks. He added that they had
contacted the contracted inspection firm for help, if needed.

Water/Parks Manager Sullivan Love – Mr. Love had no new items to report.

Clean Air Task Force – Resident Josh Gilman – Mr. Gilman had no new items to report.


8. DISCUSSION ITEMS
   No items were submitted.


9.          CONSENT ITEMS
      9.1. Approval of the July 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
      9.2. Approval of Edgewater Phase 15 Final Plat
      9.3. Approval of Tucker Row Phase 2 Unit 12 Final Plat

      Mayor Fullmer called for a motion.

      Motion: COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO APPROVE THE CONSENT ITEMS
      AS NOTED. COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR
      FULLMER, COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED
      AYE. MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.


10.        MAYOR’S APPOINTMENTS
      Mayor Fullmer will appoint Kelly Kloepfer as a Deputy Recorder, with the advice and
      consent of the council.

      Mayor Fullmer called for a motion.

      Motion: COUNCILMEMBER JUDD MOVED TO APPOINT KELLY KLOEPFER AS
      THE DEPUTY RECORDER. COUNCILMEMBER RILEY SECONDED THE MOTION.
      MAYOR FULLMER, COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY
      VOTED AYE. MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.


11.         BUSINESS ITEMS
      11.1 Public Hearing – Zoning Code Text Amendments (ORD 2019-05)
           The city of Vineyard is proposing zoning text amendments for ADU requirements
           (15.34.060), sports court fencing heights (15.32.230), permitting street side yard corner
           lot accessory structures (15.34.030), removing landscaping fees (15.40), beekeeping
           regulations (15.34.210), and bicycle parking regulations (15.38). the mayor and City
           Council will vote to approve (or deny) this request by ordinance.

Mayor Fullmer called for a motion to open the public hearing.




Page 11 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Motion: COUNCILMEMBER RILEY MOVED TO OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING AT 8:02
PM. COUNCILMEMBER JUDD SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Mayor Fullmer turned the time over to Community Development Director Morgan Brim and
City Planner Elizabeth Hart.

Mr. Brim reviewed the text amendments.
   • 15.12.060 - Dimensional Standards Table - Adding a reference in the table referring to
       Accessory Standards Section 15.34.030 for Street Side Corner Lots.

    •   15.32.230 - Requirements for Fences and Walls –
            o Height of fences is measured from finished grade. Reference to natural grade is
               removed due to the fact that most lots within the city no longer contain their
               natural grade.
            o Fences/walls up to eight feet in height may be required to buffer commercial,
               public utilities and industrial uses from residential properties.
            o Fences up to eight feet in height may be approved by the planner to provide
               security around public utilities and industrial uses.
            o Grade shall not be modified to obtain addition fence height.
            o Residential sports court fencing may be approved surrounding sport courts.
            o Height approved up to ten feet and must have a setback of three feet.
            o Fencing shall be made of open wire construction of galvanized steel.
Mr. Brim explained that this was to allow a 10-foot fence around sports courts only and not the
entire yard. He mentioned that there was a 3-foot setback and that the city had to follow the same
code. He said that there was a provision for the city manager to allow fencing in parks, etc. There
was a discussion about the fencing.

    •  15.34.030 - Accessory Buildings
           o Accessory building permitted within side yards of corner lots.
           o Must be screened on the sides and front with a fence.
           o Height is limited to ten feet and a setback of three feet from the side property line
              is required.
           o A six-foot setback from the home is required.
Mr. Brim explained that there had been a request to allow accessory structures on corner lots.
There was a discussion about accessory buildings and screening.

    •  15.34.060 - Accessory Dwelling Units
           o ADUs are prohibited on parcels less than 6,000 square.
           o Language was corrected regarding the size of ADUs. ADUs shall neither exceed
               50% the size of the principle dwelling nor 1,200 square feet.
           o Onsite parking is increased to five spaces.
Mr. Brim explained that the Zoning Code was written to allow any single-family home to have
an ADU with standards. He said that they found that homes with smaller lots were trying to put
ADUs in them and it was creating a duplex feel. He felt that they needed to correct some of the
language to limit the size of the ADUs. He said that they were also requesting to increase the
parking from four (4) to five (5) spaces.
Page 12 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
    •   15.40.030 - Plans and Fee Required
            o Removing landscaping fee and referencing fee schedule. Landscaping is already
               reviewed as part of the site plan process. The cost is already covered under the
               site plan fee.

Ms. Hart explained that she would be introducing new additions to the Zoning Code written to
promote and achieve the vision of the General Plan. She said that she had identified two (2) goals
and three (3) strategies in the Transportation chapter of the new General Plan and that bicycle
parking would help accomplish these items.

    •  15.38 - Parking and Loading Requirements (Bicycle Parking)
           o Requiring bicycle parking at new developments.
           o Minimum of 3 bicycle parking stalls or a number equal to 10% of total required
               on-site vehicular parking stalls, required spaces shall not exceed 30 bicycle
               parking stalls.
           o Exception: The Community Development Director may reduce the requirements
               up to 50% for uses that might not likely to attract bicycle traffic, like a car wash
               or storage units.
           o Bicycle rack style of an inverted U or as approved by the Community
               Development Director.
           o Located no more than 50 feet from the primary entrance.
           o Each bicycle parking space shall have a minimum of 2 feet wide and 7 feet in
               length of space.
           o Minimum 3 feet between racks and 5 feet between rows of racks.
There was a discussion about the bicycle parking.

    •  15.34.125 - Beekeeping
           o To authorize beekeeping subject to certain requirements to avoid problems that
               may otherwise be associated with beekeeping in populated areas.
           o Honeybees are only allowed to be hived.
           o Number of hives based on lot size.
           o Hives must be a minimum of 3 feet from a property line and 20 feet from any
               dwelling unit.
           o Flyway barrier is required. It must be 6 feet in height, have a solid wall or fence,
               dense vegetation or combination thereof. It may be a property line fence.
           o Water stored on the property required from March 1 to October 31.
           o Registration with the State of Utah.
Ms. Hart explained the need for bees and beekeeping. There was a discussion about beekeeping.
Mr. Brim explained that anyone that currently had beehives would be a nonconforming use, if
they were already meeting the state laws.

    •   15.60.020 - Definitions
            o Definitions added for:
                   ▪ Apiary
                   ▪ Beekeeper
                   ▪ Beekeeping Equipment
                   ▪ Colony
                   ▪ Hive
                   ▪ Honeybee

Page 13 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Mr. Brim said that Planning Commission had recommended approval of the proposed ordinance.

Mayor Fullmer called for public comments. Hearing none, she called for a motion to close the
public hearing.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER JUDD MOVED TO CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING AT 8:29
PM. COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Councilmember Judd felt that with accessory buildings on corner lots, that there would be one
neighbor who would have issues with it. Mr. Brim explained that it would be on the street side
and would not abut any neighbors. Councilmember Judd said that they could put it on the back of
the corner lot and then one neighbor might be affected by it. Mr. Brim suggested that there
would be no screen on the back side.

Mayor Fullmer stated that she wanted more time to review the accessory building and the ADU
codes. She said that she was not sure how the required bike parking would work economically.
Ms. Hart said that they were already encouraging the bike parking and the developers seemed
fine with it.

There was a discussion about ADUs. The council agreed to hold off on approving the ADU
section of the ordinance.

Mayor Fullmer called for a motion.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO APPROVE THE ZONING TEXT
AMENDMENTS, ORDINANCE 2019-05, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF 15.34.060
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND 15.34.030 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
REFERRING THEM FOR FUTURE DISCUSSION. COUNCILMEMBER JUDD SECONDED
THE MOTION. ROLL CALL WENT AS FOLLOWS: MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. THE
MOTION CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

Mayor Fullmer moved item 11.3 in front of item 11.2.


11.3        DISCUSSION AND ACTION – Proposals for the Comprehensive Financial
       Sustainability Plan
          City Manager Jacob McHargue will present bids for the CFSP. The mayor and City
          Council will take appropriate action.

Mayor Fullmer turned the time over to City Manager Jacob McHargue.

Mr. McHargue stated that there were two (2) proposals for the Comprehensive Financial
Sustainability Plan (CFSP). The companies were Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham (Lewis
Young) and Zions Bank. He explained the reason for having a sustainability plan and the impact
the RDA would have on the General Fund. He mentioned that Laura Lewis with Lewis Young
was in attendance to answer any questions the council might have.

Page 14 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Councilmember Judd asked Ms. Lewis at what point it would make sense to have a different set
of eyes. Ms. Lewis felt that the city would get the best of both worlds, using their firm, because
the CFSP would be done under a different division of the company. She mentioned that Fred
Philpot would be the team and would be working with Cody Hill and Teresa Pinkal. She said that
their firm had done similar types of things with Ogden and American Fork.

Councilmember Riley said that both of the entities had had a long history with Vineyard. He felt
that this was an opportunity to have a different set of eyes by using Zions Bank. He stated, for
the record, that he appreciated both of these firms because Vineyard had relied on them heavily
for many years.

Councilmember Flake asked Councilmember Judd for his thoughts as a banker. Councilmember
Judd felt that both firms would do an exceptional job. He said that it meant something to him to
have Ms. Lewis in attendance. He said that his recommendation would be to go with Lewis
Young.
Mayor Fullmer said that the Mr. Philpot came highly recommended and felt good about going
with Lewis Young.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER JUDD MOVED TO APPROVE THE BID AND ALLOW
STAFF TO BEGIN WORKING WITH THE CONSULTANT LEWIS AND YOUNG’S
PROPOSAL PROVIDED AND AS STIPULATED ON THE STAFF REPORT.
COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, AND JUDD VOTED AYE. COUNCILMEMBER
RILEY VOTE NAY. MOTION CARRIED FOUR TO ONE.

11.2         DISCUSSION AND ACTION – Bids for Center Street Overpass
       Public Works Director/City Engineer Don Overson will present a bid recommendation for
       the building of the Center Street Overpass. The mayor and City Council will take
       appropriate action.

Mayor Fullmer turned the time over to Public Works Director/City Engineer Don Overson.

Mr. Overson stated that it had been seven (7) years since he started this process. He said that it
had been a long road and felt that this needed to happen. He recommended Wadsworth Brothers
as the low bidder, as outlined in his staff report. He said that the total cost, including the project
management, would be just under $8 million. He added that this also included a 10 percent
contingency.

Councilmember Judd asked if staff was comfortable that this contractor could get the work done.
Mr. Overson explained that they had prequalified the contractors before they were allowed to
bid. He said that he was not worried about them. Councilmember Judd asked if staff understood
why their bid was less compared to others. Mr. Overson replied that Wadsworth Brothers had a
supplier would could provide the backfill at a lower cost.

Mr. Church asked when staff anticipated that they could start work on the project. Mr. Overson
replied that they should be starting in September of this year. He said that they would not be
going over the rail until June of 2020, which should give them time to get the air rights from
Union Pacific (UP). Mayor Fullmer felt that they needed to make sure that the contract moved
forward with UP. Mr. McHargue stated that JUB Engineers and the city would reach out to UP.


Page 15 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Councilmember Riley asked Mr. Overson if he foresaw any road construction impact on the
intersection where Vineyard Road meets Center Street. Mr. Overson replied that the majority of
the construction traffic would be using Main Street, to Center Street, to the overpass, on the west
side, and on Mill Road to the overpass on the east side. He felt that there would not be an impact
until they improved the intersection at Vineyard Road and Center Street. Councilmember Riley
asked where they would push the traffic while they were improving that intersection. Mr.
Overson replied that they would ask the contractor to either leave two lanes open or do
something else to keep traffic moving on Vineyard Road. Mayor Fullmer felt that part of the
process of lessening the arterial use of Holdaway Road would be getting the overpass open.
Councilmember Judd suggested they reach out to the property owners of the farm to get Main
Street open to 400 South.

Mayor Fullmer called for a motion.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST MOVED TO AWARD THE BID OF $6,814,575.89
TO WADSWORTH BROTHERS CONSTRUCTION WITH THE CONTINGENCY AND
PROJECT MANAGEMENT LINE ITEMS AS SHOWN IN THE FISCAL IMPACT
TABULATION AND ALLOW STAFF TO BEGIN WORKING WITH WADSWORTH
BROTHERS CONSTRUCTION TO SIGN A CONTRACT.

Fiscal Impact:
                   Wadsworth Brothers Construction            $6,814,575.89
                     JUB Construction Management                $453,591.90
                                          Subtotal            $7,268,167.79
                                  10% Contingency               $726,816.78
           Total                                              $7,994,984.57

COUNCILMEMBER RILEY SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

11.4       DISCUSSION AND ACTION – KnowWhere Campus Safety System Technology
    Councilmember John Earnest is requesting a discussion and possible approval of purchasing
    the KnowWhere Campus Safety System Technology for the School Resource Officer to use
    in conjunction with the SafeUT program. The mayor and city council will take appropriate
    action.
Mayor Fullmer turned the time over to Sergeant Holden Rockwell with the Utah County
Sheriff’s Office.

Sergeant Rockwell explained that he had hired Deputy Chad Stilson as the Student Resource
Officer (SRO). He said that his staff and the elementary schools were excited about having an
SRO. He mentioned that Deputy Stilson taught the NOVA program at Vineyard Elementary. He
turned the time over to Deputy Stilson.

Deputy Stilson stated that he had been in law enforcement for 17 years, with the Utah County
Sheriff’s Office for 10 years, and assigned to Vineyard for two (2) years. He mentioned that he
was a Vineyard resident. He said that he had enjoyed teaching the NOVA program. He explained
what the NOVA program was. He felt that it had made a positive influence in a lot of lives and
was hoping to implement the program in the other elementary schools in Vineyard.


Page 16 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Councilmember Judd mentioned that his daughter had loved the program. He felt that it would be
great to incorporate the program in the other schools.

No action was taken on this item.

11.5          DISCUSSION AND ACTION – A Resolution Supporting the Utah County Good
       Governance Advisory Boards’ Recommendation to Place a Change of Government
       Question on the November 2019 Ballot (Resolution 2019-10)
       It is recommended that the City Council support the recommendation of the Utah County
       Good Governance Advisory Board to place a change of form of county government
       question on the November 2019 General Election Ballot. The mayor and City Council will
       possibly act to approve this request by resolution.

Mayor Fullmer explained that the Utah County Good Governance Advisory Board was
recommending a change in the form of government in the county. She mentioned that there were
other cities who had passed a resolution of support. She explained what happened at the Utah
County Commission level to postpone the proposition being on the ballot this year.

Mayor Fullmer called for questions from the council. Hearing none, she called for a motion.

Councilmember Flake said that he agreed with the mayor. He felt that a three-commissioner
system was ancient and ripe with problems.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO APPROVE THE RESOLUTION 2019-10
SUPPORTING THE UTAH COUNTY GOOD GOVERNANCE ADVISORY BOARD’S
RECOMMENDATIONS. COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST SECONDED THE MOTION.
ROLL CALL WENT AS FOLLOWS: MAYOR FULLMER, COUNCILMEMBERS
EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.



12.         CLOSED SESSION
      The Mayor and City Council pursuant to Utah Code 52-4-205 may vote to go into a closed
      session for the purpose of:
           (a) discussion of the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of
               an individual
           (b) strategy sessions to discuss collective bargaining
           (c) strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
           (d) strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property
           (e) strategy sessions to discuss the sale of real property

Mayor Fullmer called for a motion to go into a closed session.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO GO INTO A CLOSED SESSION TO
DISCUSS THE CHARACTER, PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE, OR PHYSICAL OR
MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL, IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE
REDEVELOPMENT BOARD MEETING. COUNCILMEMBER JUDD SECONDED THE
MOTION. ROLL CALL WENT AS FOLLOWS: MAYOR FULLMER, COUNCILMEMBERS
EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. MOTION CARRIED
UNANIMOUSLY.

Page 17 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
13. ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Fullmer called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO ADJOURN THE MEETING AT 8:58 PM.
COUNCILMEMBER JUDD SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

The next regularly scheduled meeting is August 28, 2019.

MINUTES APPROVED ON: September 11, 2109

CERTIFIED CORRECT BY: /s/ Pamela Spencer
PAMELA SPENCER, CITY RECORDER




Page 18 of 18; August 14, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
