STAY CONNECTED

a VINEYARD
W

NOTICE OF TWO PUBLIC HEARINGS HELD DURING THE REGULAR
CITY COUNCIL MEETING

May 12, 2026, at 6:00 PM

Present

Mayor Zack Stratton

Council Member Jacob Holdaway
Council Member David Lauret
Council Member Parker McCumber
Council Member Ezra Nair

Council Member Jacob Wood

Staff Present: Administrative Director David Herring; Chief Deputy: Holden Rockwell of the
Utah County Sheriff's Office (remotely); City Recorder Robin Bond: Deputy City Recorder
Tony Lara (remotely); Parks and Recreation Directot ‘Brian Vawdrey; and Public Works
Director/City Engineer Naseem Ghandour. :

Also Attending: Daria Evans, Karen Cornelius, KintCornelius, Dennis Frank, Nathan Steele,
Emmeline McCumber, Trinity Ewing, Brian Voeks, Jané.Pearce, David Pearce, Darlene Price,
and others who did not sign in or whose writing was illegible.

AGENDA
Presiding Mayor Zack Stratton
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Stratton called.the meeting to order vat 6 pm.

2. PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE AND INVOCATION
Council Member Holdaway gave the prayer and the Pledge of Allegiance.

3. RECOGNIT. IONS, AWARDS, OR PROCLAMATIONS
All individuals onthe agenda were recognized and congratulated. A Photo was taken.

3.1. Hunter,Campbell and Tony Tienda, Environmental Utilities Operators
The City recognizes Hunter Campbell and Tyson Tienda, Water Operator 1, for
earning their Grade 2 Water Operator Certification. This certification reflects expertise
in water systems and qualifies them to operate, treat, and distribute water in large,
complex municipal systems.

3.2. Blaine Nielson, Public Works Technician
The city recognizes Blaine Nielson, Public Works Technician, for receiving his ISA
(International Society of Arboriculture) Arborist certification. This certificate reflects
his continued professional growth and recognizes his level of knowledge and skill in
the art and science of arboriculture, encompassing areas such as tree biology,
diagnosis, maintenance, and safety.

Page 1 of 5; May 12, 2026, City Council Agenda
4. CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURE
None.

5. PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE
5.1. Consolidated Fee Schedule

Mr. Steele asked how the fees were determined and if the Library Board approved the fees.
Parks and Recreation Director Brian Vawdrey explained the fees. He said it was presented

before the Library Board. =

aN

PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE TENTATIVE 2026-2027 FISCAL YEAR
BUDGET

6.1. Tentative 2026-2027 Fiscal Year Budget

\
MOTION: Council Member Holdaway moved to accept the tentative budget as presented.
Council Member Wood seconded the motion. Yes: Council Members Holdaway, Lauret,
McCumber, Nair, and Wood. No: None. Motion Passed 5-0.

MOTION: Council Member McCumber moved to start: the ‘Public Hearing. Council Member
Lauret seconded the motion. Yes: Council Members.Holdaway, Lauret, McCumber, Nair, and
Wood. Ne None. MOTION PASSED 5-0.

City Finance Director Evan Smith presented t the budget through a PowerPoint presentation.
Council Member McCumber requested. that the-budget be’presented in a more user- -friendly way.
He thanked staff for working so-diligently on it.

Public Comments:

ba 2] Daria Evans; Villas, asked questions regarding the Rad Newman project, installation of fire
hydrant aprons, the 400\North design-build project and its relation to the RDA, and whether the
city has reapplied for: thé Vineyard,] Beach Improvement Grant following its April 2026
expiration.

b5 2] Karen’ Cornelious, Villas resident, requested greater transparency regarding the
Redevelopment Agency (RDA), including access to a financial overview such as a balance sheet,
outstanding obligations, revenue, and bond repayment plans. The resident expressed interest in
understanding the’ RDA’s financial position and its potential impact on property values and asked
how property owners can obtain this information.

Nathan Steele resident, expressed appreciation for early publication of budget materials and
provided detailed feedback on the proposed budget. The comments included questions regarding
the use of fund balance in calculating the operating surplus, salary adjustments, and potential
staffing changes, including reductions in certain departments. He also requested additional
context and transparency related to planning budget reductions, projected grant revenues, police
contract expenditures, and asset ownership. Concerns were raised about the potential impact of
organizational changes on the City’s bond rating and debt obligations. Mr. Steele emphasized the

Page 2 of 5; May 12, 2026, City Council Agenda
need for clearer narrative explanations and supporting documentation to improve public
understanding of budget decisions.

MOTION: Council Member Lauret moved to end the Public Hearing. Council Member Wood
seconded the motion. Yes: Council Members Holdaway, Lauret, McCumber, Nair, and Wood.
No None. MOTION PASSED 5-0.

7. CONSENT ITEMS
7.1. Approval of the April 28, 2026, City Council Meeting Minutes
7.2. Approval of the May 5, 2026, City Council Work Meeting Miniites

7.3. Approval of Central Utah Water Conservancy District (CUWCD) CWP Water
Supply Agreement and Takedown Schedule

MOTION: Council Member Nair moved to accept the consent items as presented, Céuncil
Member McCumber seconded the motion. Yes: Council Members Holdaway; Lauret,
McCumber, Nair, and Wood. No: None. Motion Passed ‘5-0s,

8. PUBLIC COMMENTS (3 MINUTES) _ «
“Public Comments” is defined as time set aside for citizensito express their views. Public
comments can be submitted ahead of time to ‘tonyl @vineyardutah. gov.

Daria Evans, Villas, expressed concern that future city amenities should not be encumbered by
developer-related obligations prior to City ownership. She also inquired whether questions raised
during a previous public hearing would'be addressed.

During the discussion, it was noted that<certain queStions would be addressed in the RDA
meeting. Staff clarifiedfhat grant revenues are included in the budget as required, and
expenditures tied to those ‘grants! would only. Sccur if fundings were received. Additionally,
clarification was “provided that. ihe RAD (Rape Aggression Defense) program referenced in the
budget is a self-defense ‘ initiative for women.

2 Dénnis Frank, Cascade resident raised concerns about closed pedestrian access through the
wetlands ‘and indicated that ¢losures may be ignored, particularly during Vineyard Days,
suggesting’a need: for improved access control or monitoring. The resident also noted ongoing
maintenancé.issues, ineluding vegetation overgrowth near Russian olive trees, fire prevention
concerns, and ‘inadequate upkeep on steep slopes and slide hill areas. He requested improved and
more consistent maintenance in these locations.

9. GENERAL BUSINESS

9.1. Vineyard City's Floodplain Regulation Update (National Flood Insurance
Program Compliance)
Vineyard City is proposing updates to its floodplain management regulations by
ordinance to maintain compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program (N FIP)
following updated flood hazard determinations issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).

Public Works Director/City Engineer Naseem Ghandour, gave updates to the Floodplain
Page 3 of 5; May 12, 2026, City Council Agenda
