        MINUTES OF A JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION WORK SESSION
     AND A REGULAR SESSION OF THE VINEYARD CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                     125 South Main Street, Vineyard, Utah
                           April 10, 2019 at 6:03 PM
                              _______________


Present                                             Absent
Mayor Julie Fullmer                                 Councilmember Chris Judd
Councilmember John Earnest
Councilmember Tyce Flake
Councilmember Nate Riley

Staff Present: City Manager/Finance Director Jacob McHargue, Public Works Director/City
Engineer Don Overson, Assistant City Engineer Chris Wilson, Building Official George Reid,
Sergeant Holden Rockwell with the Utah County Sheriff’s Office, Community Development
Director Morgan Brim, Planning Commission Chair Cristy Welsh, Water/Parks Manager
Sullivan Love, City Recorder Pamela Spencer

Others Speaking: Becky Zimmerman with Design Workshop, Planning Commission Vice-
Chair Anthony Jenkins, Planning Commissioner Bryce Brady, Clean Air Task Force member
and resident Josh Gilman, Jon Jensen with Davies Design Build, Utah County Clerk Amelia
Powers, Utah County Elections Director Rozan Mitchell, Stan Lockhart with Utah Ranked
Choice Voting


CALL TO ORDER/PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE/INVOCATION/INSPIRATIONAL
THOUGHT
Mayor Fullmer opened the meeting at 6:03PM. She led the Pledge of Allegiance and gave the
invocation. She moved the open session to the beginning of the meeting.


OPEN SESSION – Citizens’ Comments
Mayor Fullmer called for public comments. Hearing none, she closed the open session.


6:04 PM             JOINT WORK SESSION
Mayor Fullmer opened the joint work session at 6:04 PM.


JOINT CITY COUNCIL AND PLANNING COMMISSION WORK SESSION
General Plan Final Draft Discussion

Mayor Fullmer turned the time over to Community Development Director Morgan Brim.

Mr. Brim gave a brief background on the work that had been done so far on the General Plan
update. He explained that the city had been working with Design Workshop and turned the time
over to Becky Zimmerman with Design Workshop.




Page 1 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Ms. Zimmerman gave a brief overview of what the General Plan was. Highlights of the
presentation were:

Why an update?
  • State Requirement
  • 2004 Plan is over 10 years old
  • Many of the 2004 plan goals have be accomplished
  • Population growth necessitates an update
  • Consolidates previous planning efforts

General Plan Overview
   • A strategic guidebook to help guide citywide policy decisions and priorities
   • An integration of existing planning work
   • A long-range tool for planning, legislation, financing, and action
   • A reflection of the community’s vision and goals
   • Inspiration for the future
   • Required by state statute

Process & Vision (timeline)
     Phase 1 – Explore & Engage
        • June to July – Strategic kickoff
        • July to August – Existing conditions
        • September – Community workshop #1
        • September to October – Holding community workshops
     Phase II – Synthesize & Prioritize
        • September to October – Plan themes and elements
        • October to November – Draft General Plan development
        • November to February – Community workshop #2
     Phase III – Finalize & Implement
        • February to March – Drafting General Plan revisions
        • February to April – Final General Plan development
        • May – Final Plan
     General Plan Input
        • Community
            o Community workshops
            o Community surveys
        • Leadership
            o Work group
            o Planning Commission
            o City Council
        • Industry Experts
            o Design Workshop
            o Previous studies and plans

Ms. Zimmerman explained how the community workshops worked. She said that they asked the
community what the vision statement was for Vineyard. She read the vision statement they had
come up with. “Vineyard is a vibrant, well-balanced community providing residents and visitors
a connection to our heritage and a path towards an enduring future. We promote a healthy


Page 2 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
community through thoughtful public investments, innovation, strategic partnerships, an
activated lakefront and thoughtful shared open spaces.” Ms. Zimmerman mentioned that at the
second workshop they reviewed the goals from the first workshop, and also included
involvement from the children.

Ms. Zimmerman reviewed the land use goals and strategies.
     Goals: Prioritization Exercise
        • Economic Benefit
            o Provide the framework for the successful integration of a mix of housing types
                into the community’s various neighborhoods.
            o Develop a central business area that is easily accessible to all residents and
                visitors to serve as Vineyard’s downtown.
            o Ensure that Vineyard embraces innovation in all aspects of the community and
                has the necessary framework in place to evaluate, adopt, integrate and support
                technological innovation.
            o Provide multiple connections between neighborhood, city-wide and regional
                systems that safely and effectively move people into and out of the city while
                mitigating traffic congestion. General Plan that can be implemented and have
                the ability to accomplish things.
        • Quality of Life
            o Develop and maintain a progressive trash and recycling program that
                encourages sustainability and limits users’ contribution to landfills.
            o Take advantage of Vineyard’s natural resources, including the lakefront area
                and Utah Lake, to offer more active and passive recreation opportunities to
                visitors and residents, including cultural and ecotourism activities that activate
                the lakefront and lake throughout the year.
            o Encourage developers to incorporate architectural features that underscore and
                celebrate the city’s rich heritage and history.
            o Provide a range of recreation amenity types to appeal to all Vineyard residents
                and visitors.
Plan Organization
   Elements
        • Heritage & Cultural Resources
        • Land Use
        • Open Space, Parks, and Trails
        • Economic Development
        • Transportation
        • Public Facilities and Services
        • Moderate Income Housing
        • Technology
   Example Goals & Strategies (one goal is included here as an example)
   Land Use:
        • Goal 1: Enhance Vineyard’s identity as a community with a high standard of living,
            a diverse economy, and rich mixture of housing and recreation opportunities.
                    o Strategy 1: integrate the pattern of land uses and mobility systems in
                        ways that allow for less automobile trips and more choices for
                        transportation.
                    o Strategy 2: Allow for a diversity or residential product types to fulfill the
                        needs of the entire community.


Page 3 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
                       o Strategy 3: Support a balance between jobs and housing by co-locating
                         housing, employment and supporting infrastructure in mixed-use areas.
                       o Strategy 4: Locate employment uses where their impacts on residential
                         neighborhoods are limited and local and regional.
                       o Strategy 5: Integrate public land uses such as parks, schools, and other
                         civic uses to act as a nucleus of neighborhoods and promote community
                         interaction.
                       o Strategy 6: Property uses that generate revenues, including commercial,
                         retail, office, and industrial developed on the former Geneva Steel Mill
                         site must be included as part of any approved project plan and developed
                         concurrently with residential components to ensure a fiscally positive
                         benefit to the city.

Ms. Zimmerman said that when updating the General Plan, they should be able to check things
off. She said that the general rule was five (5) goals per element. She added that the strategies
were there to implement the goals. Mr. Brim suggested that they make the goals attainable. Ms.
Zimmerman felt that the goals were attainable, but wondered if the quantity was attainable.

Action Plan
The General Plan ends with an action plan – Ms. Zimmerman suggested that after the plan was
adopted the city should prioritize the top 10 items that required time and the top 10 items that
required capital funds. The example she gave was Heritage & Cultural Resources. (The full
example can be viewed in the PowerPoint included in the final agenda packet.)

Next Steps – Ms. Zimmerman said that the next step was to have the City Council and Planning
Commission review the draft of the General Plan. She said that after she received input from
them, the General Plan would go to the respective meetings for recommendations and adoption.
Mr. Brim asked that the council and commission email their comments to City Planner Elizabeth
Hart.

Mayor Fullmer felt that the plan looked great. She stated that she loved how the goals and the
strategies were summarized at the beginning for a quick look. She also like how they
incorporated the comments, that it was easy to read, and was usable for everyone. She added that
she liked the affordable housing plan. She mentioned other elements that were incorporated into
the General Plan. She suggested that they could go through the goals and make an annual to do
list.

Mayor Fullmer called for comments.

Ms. Zimmerman said that the state required that every General Plan have a moderate-income
housing element. She mentioned that this chapter looked different than other cities plans
because of the increase in Vineyard’s population and the inability to have solid sourceable
demographic and housing data. She said that they could run the analysis after they received the
2020 census data.

Mayor Fullmer asked Ms. Zimmerman to explained the element – “Land Use: Goal 4: Encourage
a pattern of growth that reflects the city’s ability to efficiently provide necessary services and
anticipates the resource needs of future generations. Strategy 1: Designate, in general terms, the
appropriate land use type for all areas of the city and maximize level of density.” Ms.
Zimmerman explained that it was taking the land use plan and designating where density should

Page 4 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
go for single and multi-family use. Mayor Fullmer suggest that it say “maximize land use”
instead of “maximize density”.

Planning Commissioner Bryce Brady suggested that they needed to come up with their financial
goals for the future.
Mayor Fullmer called for further comments.

Ms. Zimmerman stated that this would not be new information if they had attended the
workshops and or participated on the committees. Mayor Fullmer commented that in the past,
when they had worked on a plan and strategies and then they saw the final product, it didn’t
reflect what they had discussed. She felt that this plan really reflected what had been discussed in
the workshops and committees.


6:31 PM             REGULAR SESSION
Mayor Fullmer opened the regular session at 6:31 PM.


MAYOR AND COUNCILMEMBERS’ REPORTS/DISCLOSURES/RECUSALS
Councilmember Earnest reported that he had been giving information pertaining to things such
as 911 safety features, 96-hour emergency kits in the homes, etc., to staff for social media posts.
He reported that there was a Kids on the Move program for children with developmental issues.
He also mentioned helping with the Neighborhood Watch program and working towards
emergency preparedness.

Councilmember Flake reported that he met with the Utah Lake Commission. He said that he
gave a presentation on the Walkara Way and the Vineyard Beach Park projects. He mentioned
that the lake was at the highest level it had been in the last 7 years.

Councilmember Riley said the wall along the railroad tracks and the green power boxes had been
tagged with a lot of graffiti. He mentioned that the fence on 300 West had also been tagged. He
said that they used to coordinate with the county to clean it up and was not sure where the city
was at in the cleanup process. Mayor Fullmer replied that they had been working with the
homeowners associations because they had also seen a lot of graffiti. She said that the council
had given staff guidance a few years ago to take care of the graffiti immediately. Mr. Overson
explained that a lot of the walls had been custom painted so they could not repaint them. He said
that OWELL Precast had crews that would re-stain the walls and was waiting for a proposal for
the cost. There was a discussion about the process and what the city could do to save the money.
Mr. Overson thought that they could get stain for the walls in the WatersEdge Development. The
discussion continued. Mr. Overson asked if the city’s insurance covered the tagging. Mr.
McHargue replied that it only covered it if it was a big enough claim. Councilmember Riley
asked about the county program. Mr. Overson replied that the county could do the wall for the
overpass. He added that they would have to work with Rocky Mountain Power and the county
for the green boxes. Mr. McHargue mentioned that the county program was called Teens Against
Graffiti (TAG). Sergeant Rockwell stated that the graffiti was not gang related; it was gamer
tags. Mayor Fullmer stated that she would like to see it go away as soon as possible. Sergeant

Page 5 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Rockwell asked that if the public saw graffiti that they should report it immediately. Mr.
McHargue suggested that he could allocate money for it in the next budget cycle.

Mayor Fullmer reported that she attended the Mountainland Association of Governments
Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) finance committee where they discussed funding for
the Vineyard Connector. She said that she explained to them why it was critical that they
complete the road as soon as possible. She felt the multiple reach outs to those representatives
making the decisions would be helpful in solidifying the funding.

Mayor Fullmer mentioned that she would like Ms. Spencer to research the possibility of live
streaming the City Council meetings.


STAFF, COMMISSION, AND COMMITTEE REPORTS
City Manager/Finance Director – Jacob McHargue – Mr. McHargue reported that staff had been
working on the budget for Fiscal Year 2020. He said that they needed to set up a budget work
session. He reported that soccer was starting soon and that they had partnered with Real Salt
Lake. He said that participants would be getting free passes to semi-pro games. He explained that
the children participating would also be able to get together and work out with the team. He
reported that the Easter Egg Hunt would be held on Saturday, April 20 at Vineyard Grove Park
and that the Arbor Day cleanup was scheduled for April 27. He also reported that they were able
to obtain the permit to have the fireworks show for the Summer Celebration on the lake.

Public Works Director/City Engineer – Don Overson – Mr. Overson had no new items to report.

Mayor Fullmer mentioned that things were moving forward with Union Pacific for the Center
Street Overpass. She said that there would be a combined meeting with UVU, Orem City, and
Vineyard on May 13. She mentioned that she would be attending a meeting with UVU, Orem
and BYU to discuss plans throughout the county. She added that there would be a meeting with
UVU at the end of May to discuss plans for the north campus.

City Attorney – David Church – Mr. Church was excused.

Utah County Sheriff’s Office – Sergeant Holden Rockwell – Sergeant Rockwell had no new
items to report.

Community Development Director – Morgan Brim & Planning Commission Chair – Cristy
Welsh – Vice-Chair Anthony Jenkins reported that at the last Planning Commission meeting they
had a site visit, a site plan, and Conditional Use Permit approved for the LDS church site in The
Hampton subdivision. He said that they anticipated construction to begin in 2020. He also
mentioned that they held a work session to discuss text amendments for dog defecation,
chickens, and bees. The dog defecation code was to add code enforcement and possible fees. The
commission also discussed public education, signage, and pickup bags.


Page 6 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
City Recorder – Pamela Spencer – Ms. Spencer reported that there were two council seats up for
election this year. She added that the declaration of candidacy dates would be determined by the
outcome of the Alternate Voting Methods Pilot Project discussion and action tonight.
Building Official – George Reid – Mr. Reid had no new items to report.

Water/Parks Manager – Sullivan Love – Mr. Love had no new items to report.

Clean Air Task Force – Resident Josh Gilman – Mr. Gilman reported that the closest air quality
monitoring station to Vineyard was in Lindon. He added that there were other unofficial stations
near Vineyard. He explained that there were PurpleAir quality monitors that anyone could
purchase and register with the company. He added that, according to the state, the PurpleAir
monitors were good but not as good as the monitor in Lindon. He said that there was already one
PurpleAir monitor installed in Vineyard. He asked if the council was interested in getting more
stations in Vineyard. He said that the Lindon monitor was close enough to give Vineyard a good
record of what was happening. Councilmember Flake felt that there was more pollution coming
into Vineyard because it was lower than the freeway and because of the winds. He said that he
was interested in having more stations in Vineyard and felt that PurpleAir monitors would be
fine. Mayor Fullmer said that she would be interested in researching a grant. Mr. Gilman stated
that he would research grant options.


DISCUSSION ITEMS
No items were submitted.


CONSENT ITEMS
7.1 Approval of the March 13, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
7.2 Approval of the Road Treatment Project
7.3 Approval of the Utah Valley Home Builders Association Condominium Plat
7.4 Approval of the Black & McDonald Contract renewal
7.5 Approval of the Landscaping Contract
7.6 Approval of the Fertilization and Weed Control Contract

Mayor Fullmer called for a motion.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST MOVED TO APPROVE CONSENT ITEMS 7.1
THROUGH 7.6. COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR
FULLMER, COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, AND RILEY VOTED AYE.
COUNCILMEMBER JUDD WAS ABSENT. MOTION CARRIED WITH ONE ABSENT.


MAYOR’S APPOINTMENTS
No names were submitted.




Page 7 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
BUSINESS ITEMS
9.1 DISCUSSION AND ACTION – Telos U Subdivision
     The applicant is requesting a one-lot subdivision on the property located on the southwest
     corner of Geneva Road and 575 South. The property contains Tax ID #39:228:0004 located
     in Vineyard City and Tax ID# 53:520:0001 located in Orem City. The mayor and City
     Council will take appropriate action.

Mayor Fullmer turned the time over to Community Development Director Morgan Brim.

Mr. Brim explain that the area was located at 575 South heading from Geneva Road towards The
Lakes at Sleepy Ridge subdivision. He pointed out that the lot would be in both Vineyard and
Orem. He said that the applicant was requesting to consolidate the lots into one parcel, which
would allow them to have a large buildable area. Councilmember Earnest asked about the use of
the property. Mr. Brim replied that it had been rezoned to Regional Commercial. He said that the
applicant wanted to provide employment opportunities for students attending the academy. This
would be revenue sharing for both Vineyard and Orem. It would also be a joint signed plat by
both cities.

Councilmember Riley asked what the setback requirements would be in the rear of the property.
Mr. Brim replied that they could build more than one building on the parcel so it would be a
building code issue. He added that the one lot subdivision would allow them more flexibility.

Mayor Fullmer asked if there would be room for a nice sidewalk, and which direction the
building would face. Mr. Brim said that any improvements would require them to put a sidewalk
on 575 South. Jon Jensen with Davies Design Build stated that most of the designs they had
talked about were facing 575 South.

Councilmember Riley asked if they were still interested in the retail aspect. Mr. Jensen replied
that they would be doing exactly what they had promised in the original conversation and that
they wanted to add value to Vineyard’s tax base as well as employment opportunities for their
students. He said that they wanted the project to be handled, from a building point of view, in
Vineyard.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST MOVED TO APPROVE THE PROPOSED TELOS
U FACILITY SUBDIVISION PLAT WITH THE PROPOSED CONDITIONS:
   1. THE PROPERTY OWNER WORKS WITH THE CITY TO ESTABLISH A TAXING
      AGREEMENT, IF DEEMED NECESSARY BY THE CITY MANAGER.
   2. ALL SITE PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS ASSOCIATED WITH ANY
      PROPERTY LOCATED WITHIN VINEYARD BE REVIEWED AND APPROVED AS
      REQUIRED BY CITY ORDINANCE.
   3. THE APPLICANT PAYS ANY OUTSTANDING FEES AND MAKES ANY REDLINE
      CORRECTIONS.
   4. THE APPLICANT IS SUBJECT TO ALL FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL LAWS.

COUNCILMEMBER RILEY SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. COUNCILMEMBER
JUDD WAS ABSENT. MOTION CARRIED WITH ONE ABSENT.



Page 8 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
9.2 DISCUSSION AND ACTION – Cancelation of the April 24, 2019 City Council Meeting
    Due to a possible lack of a quorum, the mayor and City Council will vote to cancel the April
    24, 2019 City Council Meeting.

Mayor Fullmer explained that they needed to cancel the April 24, 2019 City Council meeting
because of a conflicting conference being held in St. George that some of the council and staff
would be attending.
Mayor Fullmer called for a motion.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO CANCEL THE APRIL 24, 2019 CITY
COUNCIL MEETING. COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST SECONDED THE MOTION.
MAYOR FULLMER, COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, AND RILEY VOTED AYE.
COUNCILMEMBER JUDD WAS ABSENT. MOTION CARRIED WITH ONE ABSENT.

9.3 DISCUSSION AND ACTION – Sister Cities International Day – Resolution 2019-04
Mayor Julie Fullmer will present information on Sister Cities International Day. The mayor and
City Council will act to approve (or deny) this request by resolution.

Mr. McHargue explained that Sister Cities International was an organization that partnered up
cities. He mentioned that the mayor had been working on this for a few weeks. He added that
there were two (2) other cities in the state that were member cities and ten (10) that were
partners. He explained that they could choose the level at which they wanted to participate. He
said that tonight they would be proclaiming July 15, 2019 as Sister Cities International Day.
Mayor Fullmer explained that the Utah League of Cities and Towns and the state had asked each
city to partner up with a sister city to build a relationship and facilitate peace in world. She felt
that a good way to start was to focus on the international day and get educated on why cities
were doing this and what peacekeeping relationships had done in the past. She said that UVU
President Tuminez suggested that the planner who had master planned Singapore, which would
be a good sister city, could come work with the city and discuss how important planning and
development was. Mayor Fullmer mentioned that Vineyard already celebrated some of
Singapore’s holidays. She felt that proclaiming Sister Cities International Day would be an
excellent way to start.

Mayor Fullmer called for a motion.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER RILEY MOVED TO APPROVE RESOLUTION 2019-04
PROCLAIMING JULY 15, 2019 AS SISTER CITIES INTERNATIONAL DAY.
COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE SECONDED THE MOTION.

Mayor Fullmer read the proclamation.

ROLL CALL WENT AS FOLLOWS: MAYOR FULLMER, COUNCILMEMBERS
EARNEST, FLAKE, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. COUNCILMEMBER JUDD WAS ABSENT.
MOTION CARRIED WITH ONE ABSENT.




Page 9 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
9.4 DISCUSSION AND ACTION – Alternate Voting Methods Pilot Project – (Resolution
    2019-05)
    In December of 2018 the City Council voted to participate in the Alternate Voting Methods
    Pilot Project (also known as ranked choice voting), with the option to revisit their decision at
    the first meeting in April. The City Council and staff will discuss ranked choice voting
    updates and costs to determine the feasibility of the city conducting ranked choice voting for
    the 2019 Elections. The mayor and City Council will act to approve (or deny) this request by
    resolution.

Mayor Fullmer turned the time over to City Recorder Pamela Spencer.

Ms. Spencer introduced Stan Lockhart, president of Utah Ranked Choice Voting, Utah County
Clerk Amelia Powers, and Utah County Election Director Rozan Mitchell. Mr. McHargue
mentioned the follow-up meetings that had been held and the funding options available to the
city and county. He explained that ranked choice voting would save time and money because
there would be no need to hold a primary election.

Councilmember Earnest said that Councilmember Judd had asked if there were any concerns
with the lack of vetting that a candidate would go through because of the lack of a primary.
Mayor Fullmer said that Councilmember Judd also asked about the money the city would be
getting from the state to fund voter education and why they had not started the education process
sooner.

Ms. Spencer gave a brief presentation. Highlights were:
   • In 2018, the Utah State Legislature passed HB 35 Municipal Alternate Voting Methods
      Pilot Project that established a pilot project in which cities could use instant runoff
      voting, also known as ranked choice voting
   • In December 2018 the City Council voted to participate in the pilot program
   • In 2019 the Utah State Legislature passed HB 277 with amendments to the program
              o Change the opt-in and opt-out date to April 15
              o Establish a delayed candidate filing period, which is in August
              o Permit a participating municipality to conduct a primary election using instant
                  run off voting and give guidelines if they choose to do so
              o Allow other local political subdivisions participating in the pilot program to
                  run other local political subdivisions’ elections who are also participating in
                  the pilot program
              o Modify provisions relating to the certification of voting equipment
              o Make technical changes

Ms. Spencer explained that there were five (5) cities that had opted in to the program but for
various reasons had opted out. She mentioned that Payson had opted to stay in the pilot program.
She reviewed the timeline and mentioned that the declaration of candidacy would be the second
Tuesday in August through the third Tuesday in August. She explained that the fiscal impact
would be $1.80 per registered voter for the county to run the election regardless of voting
method. The cost to educate the public would depend on the funding received from the state. She
said that she would like to send out a mass mailing to every household, put notices on social
media, and hold town hall type meetings to educate the public on how ranked choice voting
would work. She felt that there would be no additional costs involved beyond the cost of the



Page 10 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
mailing. She added that the county would be asking for some of the money from the state to also
do an educational campaign that the cities could use.

Mayor Fullmer turned the time over to Mr. Lockhart, Ms. Powers, and Ms. Mitchell.

Mr. Lockhart addressed the questions that Councilmember Judd had asked in an email. He
explained that in 2018 the state of Main had passed a citizen initiative to do ranked choice voting
statewide and had allocated no money for education, and after the election the number of spoiled
ballots was about the same as a traditional election. He recommended the same education
methods that would be used for a bond or a referendum. He then explained why he felt that
making this change was a good idea. He said that 30 years ago Utah had some of the highest
voter participation rates in the country and now they had some of the lowest. He explained that
last year’s election was an exception to the trend of the last 30 years. He said that vote by mail
had raised voter participation a little bit. He said that the trends were that 10 percent of people
voted in a primary election and 25 percent voted in the general. He said that the idea behind
ranked choice voting election was to engage people to a greater level where they would want to
vote. He felt that this came at a time in the country where there was more polarization and more
division than ever before. He added that this polarization made people more apathetic. He said
that they needed to find ways to stimulate voters and get people to the polls. He mentioned that
Santa Fe, New Mexico had adopted this system and it was so successful that other cities in New
Mexico were also adopting it. He also mentioned that there were about a dozen jurisdictions in
different states that were using ranked choice voting. He explained that voters would have to be
more engaged in order to rank their choices. He said the those under the age of 40 would like
engage more quickly than those over the age of 55. He said that there was evidence that with
ranked choice voting there was higher voter participation and less apathy. Councilmember Riley
asked why people would be less apathetic. Mr. Lockhart replied it was because they were given
more choices. Ms. Powers explained that in the 2016 presidential election people were not voting
for “her” and did not like “him,” so they did not vote. She felt that if the voters could have
identified with someone, then they could have voted for that person and then ranked the others.

Mr. Lockhart said that there was more civility in ranked choice elections because the candidates
focused more on the issues. He felt that this did not mean that there would not be any
controversy, just that there would be less of it. He said that they were less likely to bash their
opponents so they could get their opponents’ supporters’ second choice votes. He added that it
would also prevent split votes. He said that the final reason was you would get a majority
winner. He gave the example of the 2017 Special Election for Utah’s 3rd Congressional District,
where John Curtis finished 5th or 6th in the Republican Convention, but won the general election
with less than 50 percent of the vote. He stated that one of Mr. Curtis’s opponents felt that Mr.
Curtis had not won because he had not received more than 50 percent of the vote. In ranked
choice voting you always get 50 percent of the vote.

Mayor Fullmer asked how ranked choice voting would work for a candidate that gathered
signatures to get on the ballot. Mr. Lockhart explained that we do not gather signatures for
nonpartisan races, so it did not translate directly. He said that for nonpartisan elections you get a
combination of first, second, and maybe third place votes. Ms. Powers said that you get the same
results without running two elections, making it easier for the voters and the candidates.

Councilmember Riley said the it appeared that there were so many pros that it was a no brainer
and if that was the case why were there not more cities and states doing ranked choice voting.
Ms. Powers replied that there were several reasons, one being that elections were run by county

Page 11 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
clerks, who fought change at every turn because they were scared to change. Another reason was
that people voting to change elections were elected officials and they liked the option of plurality
and possibly splitting the vote. She said the reason that the Utah State Legislature approved the
pilot project was that it would be done in municipal elections where they had lower voter
turnout, making it easier to try. She said that as things became more polarized, then ranked
choice voting would give voter more choices.

Councilmember Earnest asked if they were to get 15 people running for office would all 15
people go on the ballot for the General Election. Ms. Powers replied yes, and people would rank
as many as they wanted. Mayor Fullmer said that Councilmember Judd felt that vetting the
candidates should go through two (2) processes. She said that in her personal experience, most
people did not pay attention to or even vote in the primary election. She said that primary
elections cost the candidates and the city a lot money, and after the primary there was a good
chance that those who lost in the primary could run in the General Election as write-in
candidates.

Councilmember Flake stated that having worked three elections in the county and two in the city
it was a waste of time to have a primary because the turnout was abysmal. He felt that this was
an answer to people not giving a damn about the elections until Election Day. He felt that they
were too bound by the traditions of the founding fathers, which did not work anymore. He said
that they needed to re-energize their form of government and get people to take responsibility for
the government. Ms. Powers said that when you have a voter turnout of less than 10 percent in a
primary, then you have less than 10 percent of the people choosing who your mayor and
councilmember would be. Councilmember Flake said that it was less than 150 people voting in a
town of around 6,000 residents, which created a recount and a tie vote. So, 150 people and a roll
of the dice decided the winner.

Mayor Fullmer said the people came in with information for and against ranked choice voting
and she tried to go through it, but felt that it came down to relationships with the citizens and the
need for those candidates who were running to go out and meet the people.

Councilmember Earnest asked Ms. Spencer how she felt about ranked choice voting. Ms.
Spencer replied that she would like to try ranked choice voting and see how it worked out.
Councilmember Earnest stated that he was all for being a leader in the county.

Mayor Fullmer stated that this would be new to Vineyard and asked the county representatives if
they had run these types of elections. Ms. Powers replied that she had not run this type but her
Deputy had run these types of elections for the Republican party. Ms. Mitchell replied that she
did not have the experience of running a ranked choice election. She said that her experience was
being the election director in Salt Lake County where West Jordan and Cottonwood Heights had
first gone all vote by mail and now the majority of the state was vote by mail. She stated that she
was excited to be a part of the pilot program and felt that in two (2) years there would be more
cities involved.

Ms. Powers announced that the county had received all of the funding to purchase new
equipment. She explained how the equipment would work. She said that there would be no
backlog of counting ballots on Election Day. She felt that they would have most of the ballots
scanned by the close of the election. She continued to explain the election process. She explained
that they were taking the counting process from an antiquated hands-on process to an automated
process. She mentioned that the machines had been ordered and would be delivered by mid-June.

Page 12 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
She felt that the county was in a different place than they were before. She added that they were
working with a vendor who ran the ranked choice voting elections for Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Councilmember Earnest stated that he was a fan of making a change to ranked choice voting
because of the level of disinterest. He felt that this might prompt people to figure out what was
going on in the elections. He said that he could not see any negatives.

Mayor Fullmer said that this had been a big process and felt that they had taken the time to vet it
out. She said that the council had invited the county to run a mock election so they could see how
it worked. She said that they had called or met with other cities across the nation to see how
ranked choice voting worked in other places. She felt Vineyard’s demographics did not seem to
have the disparity in educating the voter or the language barrier concerns that were expressed in
the 700-plus-page document that was sent to the city after they voted to run their election by
ranked choice voting. She said that every time they started a new system, such as all vote by
mail, there was an education period. She liked the fact the they would receive money to educate
voters. She felt that saving money by not having a primary election would be cost effective for
the city and candidates. She also felt that this might produce a sounder race, because Vineyard
was such a new city, and people wanted to speak for those who were new. She thought that this
could also help those who might want to run for re-election. She felt that financially it was good,
education was not an issue, and she trusted the new system. She said that she liked technology,
and with the influx of the younger population, wanted to implement a voting app that would
work with ranked choice voting. She said that with the funds they would receive from the state
they could create annual education. She added that the funds might not be available for future
elections. Ms. Powers mentioned that she had hired an intern who was a graphic artist who
would work on ranked choice voting education.

Councilmember Flake said that he had seen the same things the mayor was talking about and felt
that Vineyard was the perfect demographic to try this. He also felt that they had the lead time and
were prepared as a city to launch into the education. He also felt that this would provide a much
better result than the old system.

Mayor Fullmer mentioned that the city had about 15,000 residents and was still growing. She felt
that in the next election there would be more people who would run for office. She said that
having run in both a council and a mayoral race, she found that they were different races. She felt
that with this year’s election being a council only race, it might be the right time to start
something new in the election process. She said that they needed to consider this because it
would not be just education for the citizens but for the people running for office.

Councilmember Riley asked if they were to opt in, what would the process be to opt out. He said
that he was nervous about doing this and wanted to know the reasons and the unintended
consequences. He wanted to know what it would look like if it did not work and they opted out.
Ms. Spencer replied that they had to opt in for each election cycle. There was a discussion about
opting in and out. Ms. Powers mentioned that the only person challenging the ranked choice
voting in the country was the incumbent in the state of Main, who lost the race because he was
not able to split the vote, which he had done in the past.

Councilmember Flake stated that he did not see a failure point. He said that they could hold a
traditional election with minimal participation and spend maximum money to get the same



Page 13 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
results or hold a ranked choice election and maybe get more participation for half the cost. He
stated that they could revisit it before the next election and make a determination.

Councilmember Riley expressed concern that somehow in ranked choice voting they would get
to round number five before they had a majority winner. Ms. Powers replied that it was one
possibility, but asked if he struggled more with two people who win with 17 and 12 percent of
the vote or someone who wins by a majority of the vote in five (5) rounds. Councilmember Riley
said the he would be more comfortable with someone who won with 17 percent of the vote than
someone who won by a majority in the fifth round. He asked if the majority was going to serve
the public 100 percent of the time or, do we go down a path because the majority was speaking
so loudly there were off base. Ms. Powers replied that what was more likely to happen was a
loud minority who had 17 percent of the vote and four (4) other candidates who were very
similar on the issues splitting the vote so that the minority won and now represented the 83
percent of the people.

Mayor Fullmer felt that she would like more options when voting and be able to rank her
choices. She said the she liked the current voting system, but liked the new idea. She felt that the
same active voters would be voting the same way, with options they really wanted. She said the
savings were the deciding factor for her. She did not see that the issues suggested in the objecting
documents would be an issue for Vineyard. She said that with new people coming in, this was
the least controversial time to try it. She felt comfortable moving forward.

Councilmember Earnest stated that change was uncomfortable, but he liked Vineyard leading out
on things in the county when they had the opportunity. He felt that Vineyard was the right kind
of place to lead out by example with what he was hoping would be a more educated, interested,
and research-driven voting populace. He felt that this new system had a better chance of drawing
that out.

Mayor Fullmer called for a motion.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO ADOPT THE ALTERNATE VOTING
METHODS PILOT PROJECT RESOLUTION 2019-05. COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST
SECONDED THE MOTION. ROLL CALL WENT AS FOLLOWS: MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. COUNCILMEMBER
JUDD WAS ABSENT. MOTION CARRIED WITH ONE ABSENT.

9.4 DISCUSSION AND ACTION – Interlocal Agreement with Utah County
    City Recorder Pamela Spencer is requesting approval to allow the mayor to sign an interlocal
    agreement with Utah County to run the city’s 2019 Municipal Elections. The mayor and City
    Council will take appropriate action.

Ms. Spencer mentioned that they had contracted with the county the past couple of election
cycles and it made sense to continue with the county as they would have the new equipment and
everything needed to run a successful election.

Mayor Fullmer stated that this request was allowing her to sign the interlocal agreement with the
county. She called for a motion.




Page 14 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Motion: COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST MOVED TO APPROVE THE MAYOR TO SIGN
THE INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN UTAH COUNTY AND
VINEYARD CITY FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 2019 MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. COUNCILMEMBER
JUDD WAS ABSENT. MOTION CARRIED WITH ONE ABSENT.


CLOSED SESSION
No closed session was held.


ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Fullmer called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO ADJOURN THE MEETING AT 8:12 PM.
COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. COUNCILMEMBER
JUDD WAS ABSENT. MOTION CARRIED WITH ONE ABSENT.

The next regularly scheduled meeting will be May 8, 2019.

MINUTES APPROVED ON:                 May 8, 2019

CERTIFIED CORRECT BY: /s/ Pamela Spencer
PAMELA SPENCER, CITY RECORDER




Page 15 of 15; April 10, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
