                           Minutes of the Vineyard City Council Retreat
                             Mountainland Association of Governments
                                  586 East 800 North, Orem, UT
                                          January 25, 2019




Present                                                       Absent
Mayor Julie Fullmer
Councilmember John Earnest
Councilmember Tyce Flake
Councilmember Chris Judd
Councilmember Nate Riley

Staff Present: City Manager/Finance Director Jacob McHargue, Public Works
Director/Engineer Don Overson, City Attorney David Church, Sergeant Holden Rockwell with
the Utah County Sheriff’s Office, Community Development Director Morgan Brim, Building
Official George Reid, City Recorder Pamela Spencer, Planning Commission Chair Cristy Welsh

Others Present: Ken Anson and Nick Wilcox with Utah Transit Authority


8:00 AM          RETREAT

The retreat began at 8:00 AM with a light breakfast. City Manager/Finance Director Jacob
McHargue opened the budget discussion at 8:30 AM.

Review RDA budget and funding sources
Mr. McHargue reviewed the RDA projects and their funding sources. There was a discussion
about the Housing Fund. Mr. Church mentioned that the housing fund was to be used for cleanup
or housing.

Mr. Church suggested that they indicate which projects had board approval and which projects
had signed contracts. There was a discussion about The Forge development. Mayor Fullmer
mentioned that the RDA board had wanted to revisit the parking structure. The consensus was
they restructure the agreement in a way to help motivate The Forge developers to move more
quickly on their development. Mr. Church stated that in any document it should show what they
were contracting for. Councilmember Judd asked how long an approval was valid without a
signed contract. Mr. Church felt that it could be invalid any time the board wanted. The
discussion continued. Mr. Church said that he wanted to see a paper record for future businesses
showing an intent to agree, but not an agreement. The review of the budget and projects
continued.




Page 1 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
RDA Project List

Center Street Overpass
   • Current Estimate (two ways to build it)
            $6,675,686 - $8,282,108 with ORA (Oil Reclamation Area) material. There was a
              discussion about the ORA material. The concern was if there would be enough of
              the material to do both the Center Street Overpass and the Town Center roads.
            $7,876,100 - $9,662,584 with road base
   • Current Funding
            $3,440,620 Roadway Impact Fee Funds
            $4,559,380 UDOT Loan Funds (Utah Department of Transportation)
            $8,000,000 Total Current Funding
   • Additional Funding Sources
            $1,159,500 Roadway Impact Fee Funds Estimate for 2019. There was a
                discussion about impact fees and the UDOT Loan Fund. Impact fees were to pay
                for an at-grade crossing, an overpass, as well as the extension of 400 South to
                Main Street.
   • Project Status
            Project is currently ready to bid, waiting on an approval for Mechanically
              stabilized Earth (MSE) Wall from UPRR (Union Pacific Railroad). Mr.
              McHargue explained the delays. There was a discussion about the delays.
   • Next Steps
            We are working with all of our contacts at UPRR to finalize design
            Once design is finalized, we can bid project
            Receive Air rights
            Start construction
   • Ideas or Solutions?
       There was a discussion about contacting someone about the delays. The consensus was
       that Mr. Church write UPRR a letter.

Water Tank
  • Current Estimate
          $8,000,000 - $9,000,000
  • Current Funding
          $1,671,226 Water Impact Fee Funds
          $2,407,258 RDA Housing Funds
          $3,632,000 2017 Bond Funds
          $7,710,484 Total Current Funding
  • Additional Funding Sources
          $303,521 Water Impact Fee Funds Estimate for 2019
             $416,626 available from remainder of 2017 Bond
         There was a discussion about Central Utah Water Conservancy District’s (CUWCD)
         participation and the required storage. There was also a discussion about paying for
         the water tank. Mr. Overson mentioned that the tank could be built in cells so that it
         could be built in phases.
  • Project Status
          We have multiple tank site locations that we are pursuing


Page 2 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
                      Locations for the water tank – A site in Orem, Grove Park Wetlands, or
                       the Alpine School District property on 400 North
             We have contracted with Hansen, Allen & Luce, Inc. (HAL) to a complete study
               to determine final tank size requirements. There was a discussion about elevations
               and site selections. There was also a discussion about the contract with Orem
               City.
    •   Next Steps
             Pick a site & work with CUWCD to evaluate who will construct
             Continue contract negotiations with Orem City
             Contract with company for wetlands delineation
             Finalize size and design based on HAL study (03-01-2019)
             Bid project
             Begin construction (must be complete by 04-01-2021)
    •   Ideas or Solutions?

Rail Spur Removal
   • Current Estimate
           $15,500,000 – 16,500,000
   • Current Funding
           $12,000,000 (prioritizing this over the Frontrunner Station and Vineyard
              Connector)
   • Additional Funding Sources
           $10,000,000 Co-applicant for Consolidated Rail Infrastructure Safety
              Improvements (CRISI) Grant
           $7,000,000 right-of-way that would be available to sell to UDOT
           Money left in the Fund Balance
          There was a discussion about the funding and project priorities. It was suggested that
          they look at doing a Special Improvement District. Council agreed that the removal of
          the rail spur was their biggest priority. There was a discussion about projects outside
          of Vineyard and the cleanup of Geneva Road. The discussion continued on funding
          options. Mr. Church expressed concern about the amount that UDOT would be
          willing to pay for the right-of-way. There was a discussion about the sale of the land
          and annexations. Mr. McHargue suggested that they could wait until March until they
          had more clarity on the issues. There was a discussion about the process UDOT and
          MAG went through to put projects on their maps and how they fund them.
          Councilmember Flake stated that the RDA board had agreed that they wanted more
          aggressive action.
   • Project Status
           Signed by UPRR, ready to be signed by City
           Currently working with legislature to evaluate funding options
   • Next Steps
           Acquire remaining right-of-way (Martin Snow, Colneva)
           If grant is received, we sign the contract and coordinate bidding and construction
           Continue working with Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG) &
              lobbyists to evaluate alternate funding sources




Page 3 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
    •   Ideas or Solutions?
             Save $1,500,000 up front by offering future increment or other incentive as
                payment for right-of-way purchase
            Mr. Overson suggested that they could negotiate with Martin Snow to purchase the
            right-of-way and do the underground crossings to bury part of the canal so they could
            start building once the contract was signed. There was further discussion about the
            right-of-way. Mr. McHargue suggested that if the grant money did not come through,
            Martin Snow was willing to entertain a long-term increment deal.

Main Street Extension
  • Current Estimate
           $3,900,000 - $4,500,000
  • Current Funding
           RDA Fund Balance
  • Additional Funding Sources
           Reimbursement to developer through future increment
  • Project Status
           Design is complete
           ORA has been placed on south piece
  • Next Steps
           Finalize design
           Bid project
           Begin construction
  • Ideas or Solutions?
           $4,500,000 estimate completes the road, only completing the road to open the
             train station and block 1 & 2 in the Town Center would cut the cost in half
          There was a discussion about the Main Street extension and the Town Center area.

Train Station
   • Current Estimate
            $5,500,000 +
              Mr. McHargue said that the issue was that they did not know who would own the
              parking lot. There was a discussion about the options to build the parking lot and
              who would own it. Mr. McHargue said that they needed to decide if they wanted
              to get into the parking game. There was a discussion about other parking
              structures in the state. There was also a discussion about shared parking
              structures. Mr. McHargue mentioned that it was Vineyard who was pushing to get
              the project done and that they did not have any leverage to get the other groups
              interested. The discussion continued.
   • Current Funding
            $4,000,000 UDOT State Grant
    Additional Funding Sources
            RDA fund balance
   • Project Status
            Currently in design process with UDOT & UTA
   • Next Steps
            Finalize Design
            Work with legislature to solve regional double tracking issue
Page 4 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
             Bid project
             Begin construction
  •     Ideas or Solutions?
CAMU
  • Contract Amount     $18,085,914.00
  • Current Spent         $6,244,651.00
  • Remaining           $11,841,263.00
  • Funding Source      2017 Bond
  • Timeline            3 years
  • Funding Timeline
        $2.2 million in 2020-2021
        $9.7 million after 2022

There was a discussion about the triggering of the tax increment on the remainder of the land in
the RDA. Mr. McHargue proposed that they determine the amount needed and pull the money
out of the 2017 Bond and pay it back with tax increment.

Councilmember Riley asked about progress on the project. Mr. McHargue explained that US
Steel was on-site doing the cleanup. He said that they gave him an 18-months to 3-year timeline
to complete the project.

Westside Cleanup
  • Storm Drain – Project is complete and is in warranty
           Project was completed under budget
  • ORA Movement –in process 6-12-month completion
  • Repository –in process 6-12-month completion

Mr. McHargue mentioned that the storm drain project was complete and came in under budget.
The ORA movement would take an additional 6 to 12 months to complete. Mr. Overson
expressed concern about where the promenade would be located. There was a discussion about
the location of the promenade. There was also a discussion about the Town Center and potential
zoning changes.

Councilmember Judd commented that it was helpful to have this formation when looking at
future funding requests. Mr. Brim suggested that they hold an RDA work session whenever
applications came in. Mr. McHargue said that staff would be informing the boardmembers when
applications came in and about discussions/meetings that were going on. Councilmember Judd
suggested that they have a liaison from the RDA board to keep the board up to date on the
discussions.

A break was taken at 10:11 AM. The meeting resumed at 10:46 AM.

Mr. McHargue introduced the recommended project list for the city.

City Project List
    • Public Works Building
    • Fire Station
    • Code Enforcement
Page 5 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
    •   Public Safety
    •   Recreation / Events
    •   Gammon Park / 11-Acre Park
    •   Everbridge
    •   Lake Restoration
    •   Economic Development
    •   UTA Vanpool

 UTA Vanpool
Mr. McHargue explained that the city had been looking at alternate transportation for the
residents. He stated that having a bus would not be economical for the city at this time. He said
that they had discussed a vanpool option. He explained that they had looked at ways to fund the
van and would be working with each of the Homeowners Associations (HOA) complexes. He
introduced Ken Anson, a Senior Service Planner, and Nick Wilcox, an Operations Planner, both
with Utah Transit Authority (UTA).

Mr. Anson reviewed the routing using a single van to start with. There was a discussion about
the routes and timelines.

Mr. Anson recommended that the city do a survey to see where the needs would be. Mr.
McHargue also wanted to contact the HOAs to see if it would help solve their parking problems.
There was a discussion about ridership and the costs. The vans would run Monday through
Friday from about 6:00 AM until about 7:00 PM. Mr. Anson mentioned that the times were
flexible. Mr. Wilcox said that the trips were expandable and the city would have to pay the
difference in the mileage. Councilmember Judd asked if there was a percentage of ridership that
they needed to hit to make it worthwhile. Mr. Anson replied that it would be up to the city. Mr.
Brim asked who paid for the use of the van. Mr. Anson replied that it was up to the city.
Councilmember Judd suggested that they charge $4.80 a day per person to cover the costs.
Councilmember Judd asked if they could have access to successful programs. Mr. Anson said
that he would look into it. Mr. Wilcox mentioned that as soon as they had the demand, they
could look at bus service.

Councilmember Riley asked what would happen if the HOAs were not willing to participate. Mr.
McHargue replied that the city would have to look at their budget. Councilmember Riley felt that
the city should not be solving the HOA’s parking problems. There was a discussion about the
van route, funding the van, and servicing the city. Mr. Wilcox suggested that the survey be very
detailed.

Capital projects
   • Beginning balance    $3,046,471
   • 2018 budget funding    $436,100
   • 2018 use of funds   -$1,824,576 – purchase of Lindon property
   • Current balance      $1,657,995

Mr. McHargue explained that the money to fund the capital projects would be coming from
either the General Fund, City Funds, or the fund balance in the Capital Projects Fund.



Page 6 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
Public Works Building
    • Current Estimate
            $370,000 - $410,000
                    $60,000 Access road and utilities
                    $250,000 Steel building with heat for equipment storage
                    $80,000 Salt storage building (could do shell for half)
                    $20,000 Drying beds
    • Potential Funding Sources
            Capital Projects Fund
            Utility Funds
            Proceeds from land sale $500,000 to $750,000
Mr. McHargue reviewed the suggested configuration of the Public Works Lot. He explained that
it would be a phased plan. He said that the current estimate for the plan was $370,000 to
$410,000 depending on the size of the salt storage.

Fire Station
    • Contract with Orem
            Construct fire station within 3 years from 5,500 ERU
            Currently 4,522 ERU
            1-2-year timeline
    • Station location
            1200 N and Mill Road
                     Response times
                     Location works regardless of contract decision
    • Discuss options
    • Direction
 Mr. McHargue explained that the contract with Orem was based on the number of Equivalent
Residential Unit (ERU) costs. He said that last year the city paid Orem Fire $850,000 and
expected to pay them about $1.2 million this year. He explained that there was an exit clause
that would go into effect once they build the fire station, housed with Orem Fire personnel, so
they needed to decide before then if they were going to continue to contract with Orem or have
their own fire department. There was a discussion about the contract. Mr. McHargue said that
they could still choose the location for the station now. He stated that they had originally
chosen 1200 N and Mill Road as the best location for a fire station. He mentioned that there
might be an option to co-locate with the Utah Fire and Rescue Academy (UFRA) at the Utah
Valley University’s Vineyard location (north of 800 North). There was a discussion about the
UFRA option. Mr. McHargue felt that they would need to make this decision within five
years. The discussion continued.

A break was taken at 11:40 AM. The meeting resumed at 12:09 PM.

Code Enforcement
   • Currently part time (10 hours per week) on a complaint basis
   • Do we want to take a more active role?
   • Possible solutions
          Creating block captains (subdivisions)
Page 7 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
            Hiring a dedicated part-time code enforcement officer
    •   Other

Mr. McHargue explained what the current process was for code enforcement. He said that the
code enforcement officer had already handled 230 citizen requests, of which 150 of them were
backlogged. Mr. Brim mentioned that 99 percent of the complaints were handled with voluntary
compliance. Mr. McHargue explained that when a complaint was received, code enforcement
would drive the rest of the subdivision to see if there were any others with the same violation.
Mr. Brim added that she drove around the city twice a week looking for public safety issues. Mr.
Overson asked for a summary of the reports. Mr. Brim replied that code enforcement would be
doing a quarterly report at a City Council meeting.

Mr. McHargue explained that staff had discussed possible solutions such as creating block
captains in the subdivisions or hiring a dedicated part-time code enforcement officer.
Mayor Fullmer explained that a block captain would be similar to the Neighborhood Watch
Program and that there would be an education process. There was a discussion about the code
enforcement process. Sergeant Rockwell explained the Neighborhood Watch program. The
discussion continued. Most people did not know they were violating the code.

Sergeant Rockwell mentioned that there would be a Town Hall meeting in March about public
safety and a possible Neighborhood Watch program.

Councilmember Judd said that he liked the formal complaint system so that people were not
calling in frivolous complaints. Mayor Fullmer explained that people were calling elected
officials and not formally submitting complaints because they were a tightknit community. She
said that people could submit a complaint without having to submit their name. Code
enforcement would then review the complaint to determine if it was an issue. Councilmember
Judd felt that the complaints should be prioritized according to the complainant putting their
name on it. Mr. Brim explained that if someone called in with a complaint, they would
recommend that they talk with their neighbor first. He said that if it was a safety issue then it
would be a priority. The discussion continued.

Mr. Brim mentioned that they were also working on commercial noncompliance, especially with
signage. He said that staff was going to send out an educational packet to the businesses and
management companies and give them a month to comply. Councilmember Judd felt that they
should do an in-person visit to explain compliance. Councilmember Riley asked if the developers
had to sign anything when they came in to get their building permits. Mr. Brim replied that they
were required to get a sign permit. He said that one issue was real estate signage. There was a
discussion about the sign ordinance process. Councilmember Riley suggested that they have a
document that the developers sign about signage regulations during the building permit process.
The discussion continued. The consensus was adding the requirements to the check sheet on the
business license application, building permits, and reaching out to the apartments. It was decided
Page 8 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
that they send out educational materials to help the developments meet the code. Mr. Brim
mentioned that the code allowed for some temporary signage.

 Public Safety
    • Goal is to have a larger public safety presence in schools
    • Currently we have an officer who makes an appearance at each school once per day
    • Possible solution
             9 Reserves specifically for this program
             Hired, Trained, & Equipped by Utah County Sheriff’s Office (UCSO)
             $20-28/hour
             Approx. $1,500 to equip each
             Approx. $11,100 for 3 radios
             1st Year Estimate        $129,432
             Ongoing                  $104,832
Mr. McHargue explained that Councilmember Earnest wanted to have a larger public safety
presence in the schools. He mentioned that the UCSO currently had an officer who went to each
school once a day. Sergeant Rockwell explained that they were called safe walks, where a deputy
walks the halls, eats lunch with the children, or would be there when the children get to school,
etc. He said that the goal for the deputies on the day shift was to be in the school about 15 to 30
minutes each school day. There was a discussion about the procedure. Sergeant Rockwell added
that he had assigned one deputy to each school to be a liaison and to work with administration.
He mentioned that Deputy Stilson ran the NOVA program at Vineyard Elementary.

Councilmember Earnest felt that the city was responsible for the students’ safety. He wanted
something that was as foolproof as possible to make the students as safe as possible. He said that
there were software programs that would complement the deputies’ routines. He said that he was
hoping to create a deterrent to keep bad people away. He wanted someone trained with a weapon
who could fight back. He said that he would be attending a training on new software to help
schools be safer. Mayor Fullmer asked if the Alpine School District or the charter schools
covered some type of security in their budgets. Sergeant Rockwell replied that Alpine School
District would only fund a resource officer for high schools and occasionally they would
partially fund a junior high. He added that charter schools were separate. He said the Sheriff’s
Office preferred that, if there were to be an armed person at each school, they be trained and
equipped by the Sheriff’s Office.

Councilmember Earnest stated that he had been researching this issue for a while and felt that the
numbers presented were great numbers. He also felt that they needed to involve the charter
schools. He said that he did not want to get caught up in red tape with the schools, etc. He felt
that they could use this on social media as a standard.

Councilmember Judd asked if the person hired would be an actual officer. Sergeant Rockwell
replied that they would have to be law enforcement certified. He explained that those hired
would be specific to the program. There was a discussion about having a police presence in the
schools. They could start with a school resource officer who would split their time among all of
the schools in Vineyard. Sergeant Rockwell mentioned that the Utah County Sheriff was willing
to start a safety program. The discussion continued. Councilmember Earnest mentioned that
there was new software coming out that would help out with investigations. Sergeant Rockwell
stated that regardless of the measures they take, they were never going to stop all bad guys, but
Page 9 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
they could take as many precautions as they could to make kids safe. He stated that he had taught
his deputies what to look for. He said that the program he was talking about would get someone
in the schools. He said that a full-time school resource officer would split their time between
schools at random times and often. He added that they would run trainings and the NOVA
programs in the schools. He said that the resource officer would be a benefit to the city as a
whole and supplement the city when school was out.

Recreation & Events
   • Recreation programs
           Self-sufficient programs, growth will be slow and methodical without subsidy
           Do you want us to add more of a focus on recreation?
   • Ideas or Solutions?
           Create a Municipal RAP tax for recreation, arts, and parks
                 .1% sales tax and would have brought in around $75,000 over the last 12
                    months.
                 Local municipalities with similar tax include American Fork, Pleasant
                    Grove, Provo, Orem, Lindon, Cedar Hills, Payson

Ms. Welsh requested that they not hold the recreation events on Wednesday nights because of
public meetings and religious activities on the same night. There was a discussion about other
nights to hold the events. Mayor Fullmer felt that it was important to create an opportunity for
people to attend public meetings. Mr. McHargue suggested that they could see if anyone was
willing to change days. The discussion continued.

    •   Recreation Projects
            Trail connections
            Vineyard Beach Improvement (Grant Application)

Mr. McHargue said that there were a couple of recreation projects that had been presented. One
on was making sure that they had all of the trail connections needed. He said that there were
grants they could apply for and use matching funds.

Councilmember Riley asked if there was anything happening this year with improvements to the
trail along the railroad corridor. Mr. McHargue replied that there was nothing planned for this
year. Councilmember Riley asked about the maintenance of the trail. Mr. Overson replied that
they did not have the manpower nor the funds. He said that they were having a hard time keeping
up with trash in the parks. He added that most of the trails were not completed. He mentioned
that staff had been working with Flagship to get the trail along the LeCheminant subdivision
cleaned up. He also mentioned that a lot of the trails were still under Flagship ownership and
they had not completed them. Mr. McHargue mentioned that they would be adding additional
Public Works positions in the next year’s budget. There was a discussion about the trails and
timelines for the developers. Mr. Overson mentioned that they were now making the developers
bond for the trails. The council agreed that the city should not reimburse the developer for
infrastructure until the improvements had been made and approved by the City Council.
Councilmember Judd said the trails needed to tie into other trails. Councilmember Riley wanted
to empower Mr. Overson to send the developers to the City Council to defend their stance. The
discussion continued.


Page 10 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
Mr. McHargue said that they had a grant application due in a couple of weeks for an
improvement of Vineyard Beach to allow for non-motorized boat beach access. He stated this
would require $100,000 in matching funds.

City Events
    • Events
            Are you pleased with the events the city is involved in?
            How could we improve?
            Would you like us to allocate more or less money to events?

Councilmember Judd stated that he liked the number of events the city was currently holding. He
felt that they should make the summer event the big event. There was a discussion about the
events. Mr. Brim mentioned that staff had talked about working with Saratoga Springs for
onetime events, such as a kayak race across the lake. Councilmember Flake expressed concern
about staffing. Mr. McHargue replied that there was a committee for the core events they had.
Ms. Nelson was responsible for coordinating the events, Ms. Rimal was responsible for social
media, and Mr. Vawdrey was responsible from the recreation position. He added that they also
had volunteers who helped. He felt that the summer celebration was going to get bigger and they
needed to identify how they wanted to handle it in the future. He also felt that the other events
were scalable (keep them small). There was a discussion about the summer celebration.

Councilmember Earnest suggested that they needed to put in a wave system so they could boogie
board and surf.

Mr. McHargue stated that one option available to the city was a RAP (Recreation, Arts, and
Parks) tax. He said that it would change the sales tax rate and would have to be a ballot issue. He
said that residents were already paying that tax that was going to surrounding communities and
they could bring it to Vineyard. He estimated that the tax would bring in $75,000 a year to start
with.

Mr. Overson suggested that if they increased the transportation fee, they could maintain the
trails.

There was a discussion about the RAP tax. Councilmember Riley asked if the city was
exhausting the amount of money set aside for the library/recreation center reimbursement to the
residents. Mr. McHargue replied that they had come close but had never maxed out.

Gammon Park / 11- Acre park.
  • What do you want us to focus on with the 11-acre Park and current facilities at Gammon
    Park?
  • Buildings?
  • Current Trail?
  • Trees?

Mr. McHargue stated that one of the projects they had held off on was fixing the trail in
Gammon Park. He explained that the city had been approached by a developer who was
interested in putting a grocery store on the Gammon Park property. He said that staff had looked
at putting them on the lot to the south of Franklin Discovery Academy. There was concern about
Page 11 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
putting more traffic on Holdaway Road. He said that there had been enough of a push from the
public for a grocery store and felt that it should be discussed. There was a discussion about
placement of the store. Mr. Brim said that the benefit of using the park location was that they
would get a grocery store sooner. Councilmember Riley felt that the pressure of having a grocery
store there would not override giving up property that they would never get back. He stated that
he would rather come up with another way to help them in another location. The discussion
continued.

Councilmember Judd suggested that they tear out the trails, buildings, and trees in Gammon
Park. Ms. Welsh suggested that they master plan Gammon Park together with the 11-acre
property. Mr. Brim mentioned that there was an Urban Design graduate student who wanted to
master plan all of the open space between City Hall and the old Town Hall, and the wetlands
going north and the 18-acre park for his graduate project. Councilmember Riley felt that if they
could present a comprehensive plan with the costs and a way to fund it by increasing the sales
tax, that the residents would be okay with it.

Economic development
What do we want to be known for, what types of uses do you want us to focus on?
   • Professional Office/Technology
   • Medical Services
   • Grocery/Home Improvement/Hardware
   • Entertainment (Large Uses, could include sports facilities and special uses like Big Shots)
   • Manufacturing Facilities
   • Hotel and Accommodation Services
   • Lake Front Development

Mr. McHargue asked the council to think about what they wanted the council and staff to be
focusing on. He said that this would be for a future discussion. Councilmember Riley felt that
they had to work with UVU. There was a discussion about meeting with UVU.

Mr. McHargue mentioned that there were other items to discuss. Council agreed to hold
quarterly planning meetings from 8:00 AM to noon.

The meeting adjourned at 1:45 PM.

The next regularly scheduled meeting is February 13, 2019.



MINUTES APPROVED ON:                February 27, 2019

CERTIFIED CORRECT BY: /s/Pamela Spencer
PAMELA SPENCER, CITY RECORDER




Page 12 of 12; January 23, 2019 City Council Retreat Minutes
