                      MINUTES OF A WORK AND REGULAR SESSION
                      OF THE VINEYARD CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                     Vineyard City Hall, 125 South Main Street, Vineyard, Utah
                                   January 23, 2019 at 6:02 PM
                                         _______________

Present                                             Absent
Mayor Julie Fullmer
Councilmember John Earnest
Councilmember Tyce Flake
Councilmember Chris Judd
Councilmember Nate Riley

Staff Present: City Manager/Finance Director Jacob McHargue, Public Works Director/City
Engineer Don Overson, Assistant City Engineer Chris Wilson, Sergeant Holden Rockwell with
the Utah County Sheriff’s Office, Planning Commission Chair Cristy Welsh, City Planner
Elizabeth Hart, City Recorder Pamela Spencer, Building Official George Reid, Water/Parks
Manager Sullivan Love

Others Speaking: Amelia Powers and Josh Daniels with the Utah County Clerk’s Office


6:01 PM          WORK SESSION


CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Fullmer opened the meeting at 6:02 PM. Councilmember Riley lead the pledge of
allegiance and gave the invocation.


PRESENTATION – Ranked Choice Voting
The Utah County Clerk’s Office will do a presentation on ranked choice voting.

Mayor Fullmer turned the time over to Utah County Clerk/Auditor Amelia Powers and Utah
County Deputy Clerk Josh Daniels.

Ms. Powers mentioned the changes in staffing in the clerk’s office particular to the Elections
Office. She said that they recognized that the resources were in adequate to service the
population. Changes:
   1. Elections Director hired by the end of February
   2. Elections Coordinator hired as full-time staff.
   3. Cancelled the contract with the existing the equipment provider.
   4. Purchasing new equipment.
   5. Qualified for about $1 million in grants and looking at getting more funds through the
        legislature.
   6. Utah County Commission allocated funds specific to election equipment which will have
        the ability to count ballots three times faster.
   7. Continuing to improve the vote by mail process.
   8. Adding secure curbside drop boxes in cities and throughout the county.
   9. Already reaching out to the city recorders for their expertise.
   10. Contract with the cities and have them help with the election process.
   11. ZIP Code updates. The county was able to process those changes by last Friday.
Page 1 of 8; January 23, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
    12. On an admirative level the county will have more seasoned staff, access to grants,
        updated equipment, and will redo the elections process with the help of industry experts.

Ms. Powers stated that this would happen before the municipal elections. She said that the
county would know before the May 1 deadline if they would have the ability to run a ranked
choice voting election. She felt 90 percent confident that ranked choice voting would not be a
problem.

Ms. Powers turned the time over to Josh Daniels, her Chief Deputy Clerk.

Mr. Daniels stated that he was enamored by ranked choice voting and had a lot of experience
with it. He said that he was a delegate when the Republican Party used ranked choice voting
during the 2004 Gubernatorial Convention Election.

Mr. Daniels explained how ranked choice voting worked and gave an interactive demonstration.
He mentioned that the counting process would be completely automated. He explained how an
exhausted ballot (meaning the voter chose not to rank all of the candidates) would change the
majority threshold. Ms. Powers explained that exhausted ballots or “undervoted” ballots
happened in every election.

Resident Cristy Welsh asked what would happen if someone bubbled twice in the same column.
Mr. Daniels explained that it would invalidate those preferences.

Councilmember Riley asked about the pros and cons of the two forms of voting. Mr. Daniels
explained that one of the main pros of ranked choice voting was that if there were many
candidates, you would prefer for the winner to be selected by a majority vote. A plurality winner
is the one who gets the most votes but not necessarily a majority of the votes. He explained that
if a plurality winner only received 49 percent of the votes it would mean he was opposed by 51
percent of the voters. He said that ranked choice voting eliminated the plurality victory (meaning
that there was a winner with the most votes not a majority of the votes). He said that other
advantages were that you could get majority winners even when you had multiple candidates.
Another pro was that with ranked choice voting you could eliminate the need for a primary
election.

Mr. Daniels said that it improved the civic dialog. It focused the dialog on issues and not
necessarily on other candidates. He felt that it could improve the quality of policy discussions.

Ms. Powers felt that it better served the citizens. She explained that it gave voters the ability to
vote for their favorite candidate and rank the rest. She felt that it gave increased voter
engagement. She gave an example of a minority government (meaning no one political party had
a majority of seats). She said that with ranked choice voting there would not be the problem of a
split vote (the existence of two or more similar candidates, which reduces the votes received by
each of them and can lead to a victory for a minority candidate) or a minority government.

Councilmember Riley asked if the data in cities and counties that had been running elections by
ranked choice showed that there was greater voter participation. Mr. Daniels replied that he did
not have the data on that. Ms. Powers replied that they tended to have a higher voter turnout in
underrepresented populations. Mr. Daniels felt that they were evaluating two different ideas, the
method of voting and people willing to vote.

Mr. Daniels said that a common criticism with ranked choice voting was that there was a flaw
where candidates would try to get the second-place votes because the second-place wins. He said
Page 2 of 8; January 23, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
that this ignored the second-place controversy where the majority of the population did not want
the first-place candidate. He explained that the first-place person could still win if they got more
second place votes.

Councilmember Earnest asked if ranked choice voting would make the voting worse for those
voters who were already guessing on their ballots. Mr. Daniels replied that he did not know if it
would make the guessing worse but it would make the election cheaper by eliminating the
primary election. He felt that they would never solve the issue of an uninformed vote.

Councilmember Judd asked why no cities in Weber and Davis Counties had elected to participate
in the ranked choice voting pilot program. Ms. Powers replied that in county government they
always opted to do what was easiest. She said that those counties did not want to run ranked
choice voting elections for some cities and not for others. Mr. Daniels explained that
municipalities made their decisions based on their level of confidence that the counties would
support the municipalities. Ms. Powers said that the cities were told that they would have to find
someone else to help run their elections and the cities did not want to do that.

Councilmember Riley asked if the days of getting results the night of the elections were gone.
Ms. Powers replied that because of mail-in ballots they could not certify the election until two
weeks after the election. She said that with ranked choice voting they could give preliminary
results with the rankings but until they received all of the ballots in the mail, they could not
certify the election. Mr. Daniels said that it was true statewide for any election. With vote by
mail, the era of election night results was over.

Mayor Fullmer explained that in past elections, Utah County did not have the equipment to sort
the ballots so they were doing it manually. Ms. Powers explained that with the new equipment, if
they had a race that was not close, they would be able to count enough ballots to give
preliminary results faster than in the past. She stated that for the last election the county had
one-third of the equipment they needed.

Councilmember Judd asked how much this type of election would cost the city. Mr. Daniels
replied that the basic cost for service would not change. He said that there would be an
apportioned cost for the equipment, prorated by voters. There would be an additional charge for
postage, return mail, and printing. He said that eliminating the primary election would cut the
costs for postage, printing, and return postage in half.

Councilmember Judd asked if the county would be providing the education and resources. Mr.
Daniels asked if this was education for the public. Councilmember Judd felt that there would
have to be an increased outreach to educate the public. He hoped that there were funds available
for Vineyard if they were electing to participate in the pilot program. Ms. Powers explained that
she had asked for a representative from each participating city to sit on a ranked choice voting
committee. She said that in the upcoming legislative session there were going to be several
appropriations bills, one of which would be in part to fund the administration of the ranked
choice voting and part would be for education costs. Mr. Daniels felt that Councilmember Judd
was asking a marketing question. He felt that the county had underutilized using email addresses
and digital media. Councilmember Judd said that they could figure out what they had spent in the
past but needed to know what the dollar amount was that the legislature might be willing to give
the city. Ms. Powers replied that there were only four cities, maybe five, running a ranked choice
voting election in Utah County. She added that Utah County might also be running the ranked
choice voting election for the two cities in Salt Lake County. She said that she wanted the
committee so that the cities were not having to come up with their own campaigns. She
mentioned that her office had hired a graphic arts intern to work on voter education. The county
Page 3 of 8; January 23, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
would create the marking material and the city recorder would determine how best to
disseminate the materials to the population. Mayor Fullmer mentioned that the city had received
documentation stating that one of the downfalls of running a ranked choice election was the cost
of education. She said that not all of the cities in the documentation had used a centralized
county to run that funding. She felt that it was important to determine what options were
available. She said that Vineyard had the option do everything online through the city newsletter
and notification system, etc. Ms. Spencer suggested that they could use the social media and
email system. She mentioned that when they had first decided to do elections through vote by
mail, she had mailed a letter to every address in Vineyard. She felt that with the increased
population that would not be feasible. Ms. Powers said that the cost for the city to create and
market a video would be high, but if the county created a video that the city could push out to the
citizens then it would be feasible.

Councilmember Judd asked which case study the county had looked at that made them
comfortable with doing ranked choice voting. Mr. Daniels replied that he had personally seen it
used in a variety of contexts and it made sense to him. He said that he had read about
Minneapolis, which had been doing it for years. He felt that there were no logistical problems,
and it would be the same as any other ballot, just with a mindset change on the part of voters.

Ms. Powers replied that her biggest exposure was when she went to a ranked choice voting
convention in Denver. She said that she had spoken with county clerks who had administered
them in the past and looked at their statistics. She said that she had also looked at Minneapolis.

Mayor Fullmer called for further comments.

Ms. Welsh felt that this would require the citizens to know about all of the candidates. She said
that she liked the ability to run a cleaner campaign and talk about the issues. She said that this
would require more effort on the part of the voter. She mentioned that for elections in Oregon the
ballot came with a writeup of each of the candidates. She asked why this was not done in Utah.
Ms. Powers replied that the reason why they did not send out a booklet with every ballot was the
cost. She said that they had a third of the resources they needed to service the population. She
said that for almost no cost they could deliver candidates’ bios digitally. Ms. Spencer explained
that voters could review the candidates’ information on the city’s website as well as the State’s.
Mr. Daniels felt that the problem already existed in the present election system.

Mayor Fullmer felt that ranked choice voting was similar to traditional voting, but was not sure
how she felt about using it. She said that they needed to put the responsibility for education onto
the person running their campaign to have people know who they were. She felt that her in-
person meetings were more tangible than her online bio.

Councilmember Riley asked what the chances were of electing a candidate that was clearly the
minority through multiple rounds of counting but won in the end and would not have been
elected in a plurality vote. Mr. Daniels replied that mathematically no one earlier on had a
majority. He gave an example of how the rounds worked. He said because the lowest vote getter
was eliminated in each round, the only candidate that could win in the end was someone who
was not the least vote getter in the early rounds. You had to survive the first couple of cuts. He
continued his example. He said that whoever had the largest plurality in the first rounds would
most likely win.




Page 4 of 8; January 23, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Councilmember Judd asked if the definition of majority was a majority of votes less exhausted
ballots, then there would not be a majority of votes cast. Mr. Daniels replied that it was a
majority of votes cast in each round. Councilmember Judd stated that he did not like the use of
the term “exhausted ballots” and suggested that they use a different term.

Mayor Fullmer called for further questions. Hearing none, she opened the regular session.


7:16 PM          REGULAR SESSION


OPEN SESSION – Citizens’ Comments
Mayor Fullmer called for public comments. Hearing none, she closed the open session.


MAYOR AND COUNCILMEMBERS’ REPORTS/DISCLOSURES/RECUSALS
There were no council reports given.


STAFF AND COMMISSION REPORTS
Water/Parks Manager Sullivan Love – Mr. Love reported that the new manager for the
Timpanogos Special Service District (TSSD) would like to do presentation to the council about
TSSD.

City Manager/Finance Director – Jacob McHargue – Mr. McHargue had no new items to report.

Public Works Director/Engineer – Don Overson – Mr. Overson had no new items to report.

City Attorney – David Church – Mr. Church was excused.

Community Development Director – Morgan Brim & Planning Commission Chair – Cristy
Welsh – Mr. Brim was excused and Chair Welsh had no new items to report.

City Recorder – Pamela Spencer – Ms. Spencer had no new items to report.

Building Official – George Reid – Mr. Reid presented his year-end report. He mentioned that it
was the third highest year for permitting in Vineyard’s history. Highlights of the report were:
Revenue
   • $1,312,230        Total Residential Permit Revenue
   • $ 351,958         Total Commercial Permit Revenue
   14 percent growth over the past 5 years. Still experiencing great growth in the city.
Building Permits Issued
   •        645 Permits issued – majority were single-family dwellings
   •         89 Townhomes
   •         15 Multi-family dwellings
Commercial Projects
   • 186,360 Square feet of new commercial space
Page 5 of 8; January 23, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
Dwelling Units
   •        337 Certificates of Occupancy for Single Family Units
   •         89 Certificates of Occupancy for Townhome Units
   •        294 Certificates of Occupancy for Multi-family Units
   •        720 Total Units
Population growth
   •      1,571 Single Family Dwellings
   •        667 Town Homes
   •        838 Multi-family Dwellings
   •      3,076 Total estimate of population growth
   •     13,029 Total estimated population
   Mr. Reid explained that the reports for total estimated population were higher in the past
   because they were generating the figure off of the permitting system, which was pulling
   incorrectly. He said that they had based their figures off of the build-out analysis, which he
   felt would be a more accurate figure. He added that this figure did not include the Lakefront
   development or the Clegg farm.
   •     1,016 Units still to be built

Mr. Reid reviewed the Utah Valley Home Builders Association ranked Vineyard #4 in their
Residential Build-out Audit. He mentioned that Vineyard had exceeded every city in
condominiums and duplexes. He felt that Vineyard was still a major contender for increased
population in Utah Valley.

Utah County Sheriff’s Office – Sergeant Holden Rockwell – Sergeant Rockwell presented his
year-end report. He mentioned that the 2018 year-end report included the fourth quarter
statistics.
Highlights of the report were:
   Year     Total Cad      Officer      Public       Case      Arrests Traffic Citations
              Calls      Generated    Generated Numbers                   Stops
                            Calls        Calls
                          (2nd-4th     (2nd-4th
                          quarters)    quarters)
   2017       4882          1950         1810        1245        164      1284        439
   2018       7206          2687         2903        1332        175      2202        721


Response Times 2017:                               Response Times 2018:
Priority 1-2                  7:21                 Priority 1-2            5:17
Priority 1-2 calls             720                 Priority 1-2 call        912

Nature of incidents 2017:                          Nature of incidents 2018:
Burglary/Theft            104                      Burglary/Theft             83
Assault/Domestic Violence 84                       Assault/Domestic Violence 96
Drugs/Alcohol              65                      Drugs/Alcohol             102




Page 6 of 8; January 23, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
2018 accomplishments:
   • NOVA program at Vineyard Elementary
   • Started a Facebook page
   • 24-hour service with additional deputies
   • Started school safety walks – every school should see a deputy every day

Councilmember Earnest asked Sergeant Rockwell to keep the council apprised as to the
department’s needs so that the department would be able to keep on top of what Vineyard
needed.


DISCUSSION ITEMS
No items were submitted.


CONSENT ITEMS
7.1 Approval of the January 9, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
7.2 Approval of an Interlocal Agreement for Utah County Library Services

Mayor Fullmer called for a motion to approve the consent items.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER JUDD MOVED TO APPROVE CONSENT ITEMS 7.1 AND
7.2. COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.


MAYOR’S APPOINTMENTS
No names were submitted.


BUSINESS ITEMS
No business items were submitted.


CLOSED SESSION
Mayor Fullmer called for a motion to go into a closed session.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER JUDD MOVED TO GO INTO A CLOSED SESSION TO
DISCUSSION OF THE CHARACTER, PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE, OR PHYSICAL
OR MENTAL HEALTH OF AN INDIVIDUAL. COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST
SECONDED THE MOTION. ROLL CALL WENT AS FOLLOWS: MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

The closed session took place immediately following this meeting.




Page 7 of 8; January 23, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Fullmer called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.

Motion: COUNCILMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO ADJOURN THE MEETING AT 7:28 PM.
COUNCILMEMBER EARNEST SECONDED THE MOTION. MAYOR FULLMER,
COUNCILMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.


The next regularly scheduled meeting is February 13, 2019.


MINUTES APPROVED ON:                February 13, 2019

CERTIFIED CORRECT BY: /s/ Pamela Spencer
PAMELA SPENCER, CITY RECORDER




Page 8 of 8; January 23, 2019 City Council Meeting Minutes
