                                   MINUTES OF A VINEYARD
                                CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
                                       City Council Chambers
                                125 South Main Street, Vineyard, Utah
                                   September 25, 2019 at 4:00 PM
                                         _______________

Present                                     Absent
Mayor Julie Fullmer                         Councilmember Chris Judd
Councilmember John Earnest
Councilmember Tyce Flake
Councilmember Nate Riley – arrived at 4:16 PM

Staff Present: City Manager/Finance Director Jacob McHargue, Assistant Finance
Director/Treasurer Mariah Hill, Public Works Director/City Engineer Don Overson, Assistant
City Engineer Chris Wilson, Community Development Director Morgan Brim, City Planner
Elizabeth Hart, Sergeant Holden Rockwell with the Utah County Sheriff’s Office, Building
Official George Reid, Water/Parks Manager Sullivan Love, Deputy Recorder Kelly Kloepfer

Others Speaking: Laura Lewis, David Robertson, and Cody Hill with Lewis Young Robertson
& Burningham


Mr. McHargue began the meeting at 4:05 PM by instructing staff and Council about the live
streaming which would start with that night’s City Council meeting, and by having everyone
introduce themselves.


 1. PRESENTATION AND DISCUSSION
    Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham (Lewis Young) will make a presentation and lead a
    discussion about Level of Service for the city.

Mr. McHargue turned the time over to Laura Lewis with Lewis Young Robertson &
Burningham.

Ms. Lewis explained that after the economic collapse of 2008, bond investors and rating agencies
started caring a lot more about if a city could weather a financial storm. They now wanted to see
not just the next year’s budget, but also that the city was planning ahead. Ms. Lewis explained
that the Comprehensive Financial Sustainability Plan (CFSP) was a good financial practice and a
tool to plan the budget.

Cody Hill with Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham further explained that one of the benefits
of the CFSP was that it could help a city council see how their decisions would impact the
budget.

Ms. Lewis explained that the CFSP would be a 20-year plan, with things being more realistic
within a five-year window. The CFSP was meant to be updated on an ongoing basis.

Mr. Hill presented a sample CFSP and explained that it was highly detailed so that a city could
examine how specific policy decisions would impact the budget.

Page 1 of 4; September 25, 2019 City Council Work Session Minutes
Ms. Lewis emphasized how one of the key strengths of this model was that it allowed cities to be
interactive and thereby discover future costs.

Ms. Lewis said that some of the challenges were getting elected officials on the same page as to
what the most important things were, and determining how to measure the level of service.

Mr. Hill addressed the impact of the Redevelopment Agency (RDA) on the General Fund, and
gave a case study of the Megaplex theater to illustrate the RDA’s impact on the distribution of
the property tax revenue paid by that business.

Mr. McHargue indicated that the important thing for this discussion was that in the case of the
Megaplex’s property tax revenue, without the RDA the city would receive $50,388 and with the
RDA it would only receive $12,597. He emphasized that while the RDA was a valuable tool
because it provided the funding mechanism for the infrastructure and cleanup, it did have a
drastic impact on funding for the city.

Ms. Lewis stated that the city needed to have a plan in place to address property tax increases.
Because 60% of the city was in the RDA, if the city raised property taxes, the city would only
get 40% of the benefit. She further explained that there had been a state law (USC 17C-1-407)
which said that if taxing entities under an RDA raised the property tax, then they got to keep the
whole amount of that raise and did not have to share it with the RDA. In 2018 the Utah State
Legislature passed Senate Bill 77, which removed that rule. She recommended that since
Vineyard had the largest portion of their city’s taxable value within the RDA of anyone in the
state, it would be worth exploring a carveout through the legislature.

David Robertson with Lewis Young Robertson & Burningham addressed utility funds and their
relation to the General Fund. He emphasized the need to isolate utilities such as water and
sewer, because it was good accounting but also because if they wanted to issue bonds for the
utilities, they could track costs and revenue.

Ms. Lewis detailed how property taxes affected cities’ buying power. She explained that most
often, citizens believed that if their property value went up, then property tax revenue would go
up. But this was not how it worked in Utah because of the revenue neutrality mandated by state
law. She explained that when the value of existing homes went up, then the property tax rate
went down so that it would be revenue neutral. Therefore, if a city did not actively seek to
maintain their property tax rate, they were losing buying power since they would be receiving the
same amount of revenue year after year even though their costs were rising. She gave examples
of Utah cities – some that had and some that had not maintained their property tax rates.

Ms. Lewis explained that the four primary sources of revenue were: property taxes, sales taxes,
franchise fees, and building and development fees. She said that cities had the most control over
property taxes. She explained that cities were the most financially stable when they maintained a
balanced revenue mix, without depending too heavily on one or two of those sources.

Ms. Lewis said that when a city was looking at raising property taxes, it was important to
educate constituents as to how much of that was the city portion and therefore how much of it
would actually be increasing. A discussion followed.

Mr. McHargue discussed the Recreation, Arts, and Parks (RAP) Tax proposal that was on the
November 5 ballot and referenced the Voter Information Pamphlet.



Page 2 of 4; September 25, 2019 City Council Work Session Minutes
Ms. Hill explained that the General Fund had been paying for most of the building maintenance
and fleet maintenance. Staff decided to create an internal service fund so that the General Fund
was not paying for all of it by default.

There was a discussion about notifying the public about distributing costs to the utility funds.

Ms. Lewis addressed the budget and prioritizing unfunded needs. She said that the CFSP only
worked well if the city council gave them input on the priorities and timelines for capital needs.
She gave the example of South Jordan and how they identified that 75-78% of the total budget
was spent on salaries and compensation. She was aware that the city council was planning on
doing a compensation study, and encouraged them to consider where they wanted to fall in the
salary ranges. With the strong job market, if a city was at the lower end of the ranges, they would
tend to have lot of turnover, which was expensive. She emphasized that compensation had a
huge impact on the long-term plan.

Ms. Lewis asked each councilmember to list their top five needs in the next five years, in order
of priority, and to submit that to them, so they could get a consensus about what the top needs of
the city were.

Councilmember Earnest stated that his number one priority was planning for economic
development that was sustainable so that the city could create a foundation for recreation, parks,
police and fire, etc.

Ms. Lewis agreed, adding the example of how South Jordan used to be a bedroom community
with almost no commercial development. Then their residents saw other cities with recreation
centers, parks, etc., and they also wanted those amenities. She explained that generally a single-
family home did not generate enough property taxes to pay for the services the residents in that
home would use. If residents wanted the amenities, the city needed the commercial businesses to
come in.

Councilmember Flake stated that to facilitate economic development, his number one priority
was roads. He asserted that if the city didn’t develop roads, and the utilities to go with them, no
one would bring in the economic development.

Ms. Lewis agreed, and told of a panel presentation which she attended where the out-of-state
people said that the number one thing they were looking for to bring their businesses into the
state was shovel-ready sites where they would not have to put in the roads and utilities.

Mr. McHargue said that in addition to the infrastructure projects that the city was working on,
the city was legally obligated to get the water tank in, followed by the fire station.
Councilmember Earnest suggested the possibility of letting Orem do fire, with Vineyard
providing ambulance service. There was further discussion.

Mayor Fullmer listed her priorities, in order, as: economic development, roads, fire,
administration, and utilities.

Mr. Brim agreed that roads were important and also recommended that council consider
preserving some land in the Town Center project, to plan for a future city hall so the city would
not have to buy land later at a higher price.

Councilmember Riley felt that the council was on the same page but that they needed Lewis
Young’s help to get the timelines and financing to come up with a plan. Mayor Fullmer agreed
Page 3 of 4; September 25, 2019 City Council Work Session Minutes
that getting the timelines right was critical, and added that they needed to also plan for the things
that were not the top priorities. The discussion continued. Mayor Fullmer concluded that for the
lower-priority items, councilmembers were to share them with Lewis Young via email. Mr.
Robertson pointed out that they would be interviewing department heads to get the smaller, day-
to-day items and to address any concerns about level of service in order to integrate that into the
plan.

Mr. McHargue asked how the council wanted to prioritize recreation and what they were hearing
from citizens. He also asked how much of the RAP Tax, if approved, should go towards
recreation. He explained that recreation was not self funded, and that it was a drain on the
general fund. He reminded council that recreation was not funding park maintenance.
Councilmember Earnest commented that he would like to see a recreation center on the radar,
and then a discussion about park maintenance ensued.

Mr. McHargue directed council to the five-year plan report and said that after meeting with each
department, the assumption was that this plan would be to maintain the same level of service,
taking growth into account. He acknowledged that they would need to add things to this list, but
asked council to review the list while preparing their recommendations. The discussion
continued.

Mr. Overson stressed that he wanted to make sure that everyone understood a few things about
parks. He explained how there were active parks and passive parks. Active parks, such as
Vineyard Grove Park, had amenities such as playground equipment, soccer fields, etc., and
required more maintenance. Passive parks, such as Penny Springs Park, had grass, benches, and
picnic tables but no activities. He asked which type of parks did council want more of in the
future. Knowing this would help staff to know what to ask the developers for. He also felt there
was a need to disperse the parks throughout the city.

Mr. Overson indicated that they were competing with Provo and Orem for Public Works
employees, and that they were not able to hire anyone because no one was available. He
concluded that they needed to look at the pay range they were offering.

Ms. Lewis and the council determined the timeline to get the council’s recommendations and for
Lewis Young to compile the plan to present it to council. They planned to meet again during the
second City Council meeting in October. Councilmember Earnest requested that the plan
address wages, in reference to Mr. Overson’s concern, since the city needed to be competitive to
hire and retain quality personnel.

The meeting adjourned at 5:39 PM.


MINUTES APPROVED ON: October 30, 2019

CERTIFIED CORRECT BY: /s/ Kelly Kloepfer
KELLY KLOEPFER DEPUTY RECORDER




Page 4 of 4; September 25, 2019 City Council Work Session Minutes
