                           MINUTES OF THE VINEYARD
                     REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD MEETING
                          125 South Main Street, Vineyard, Utah
                             December 12, 2018 – 8:09 PM



Present                                           Absent
Chair Julie Fullmer
Boardmember John Earnest
Boardmember Tyce Flake
Boardmember Chris Judd
Boardmember Nate Riley

Staff Present: City Manager/Finance Director Jacob McHargue, Public Works Director/City
Engineer Don Overson, City Attorney David Church, Sergeant Holden Rockwell with the Utah
County Sheriff’s Office, Community Development Director Morgan Brim, City Planner Elizabeth
Hart, City Recorder Pamela Spencer, Water/Parks Manager Sullivan Love

Others Speaking: Brian Hansen, Eric Towner, and Steve Hutchings, with X Development, Dave
Allred with The Golf Club, Andrew Evans with Carr Healthcare Realty

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Fullmer opened the meeting at 8:09 PM.


CONSENT AGENDA
2.1 Approval of the October 10, 2018 RDA Meeting Minutes

Chair Fullmer called for a motion.

Motion. BOARDMEMBER JUDD MOVED TO APPROVE CONSENT ITEM 2.1.
BOARDMEMBER RILEY SECONDED THE MOTION. CHAIR FULLMER,
BOARDMEMBERS, EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.


BUSINESS ITEMS
3.1 DISCUSSION AND ACTION – The Yard Reimbursement Request
    Brian Hansen representing The Yard is requesting RDA assistance to help in bringing in a
    golf facility user such as Topgolf or similar to The Yard. The facility would boast the most
    up to date technology in the golf facility arena. It will include luxury golf hitting and lounge
    bays, full service dining facilities, full service bar, corporate event spaces, private party
    space, and concert venue space. This entertainment use will help combine with the Megaplex
    to make this site the premier entertainment hub of Utah County. With the addition of the golf
    facility The Yard (B) will become extremely attractive to a variety of uses including 160,000
    square feet of professional and medical office as well as 20,000 more square feet of retail
    uses.

Chair Fullmer turned the time over to Brian Hansen with X Development, who turned the time
over to Dave Allred with The Golf Club.
Page 1 of 9; December 12, 2018 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
Mr. Allred explained the he had taken his employees and team to the Topgolf facilities. He said
that he had reached out to Topgolf and they were not interested. He said that he became aware of
BigShots and decided to team up with them. He felt that it would be a great value for the local
community and bring a dynamic type of entertainment to Utah County.

Mr. Allred presented a rendering of a golf venue that he would be bringing to Vineyard.
Items to be included in the facility:
    • A 60-bay facility, hitting towards the east
    • A destination restaurant – Mr. Allred felt that the Cheesecake Factory would be a great
        partner but had been in discussions with several restaurants
    • Food and beverage on the top floor in an open terrace setting
    • Troon Golf the largest operator of golf courses in the United Stated.
    • A pro shop to sell golf equipment
    • A golf academy, providing golf instruction
    • An event space for corporate events
    • Eventually a virtual reality area
    • Night life area with concerts on the terrace and the field
    • Roof terrace

 Mr. Allred gave some statics for people using the facility:
    • 68% Males
    • Average age is 18-44
    • Appeals to millennials
    • 78 % of people going to Topgolf were not golfers and were going for the social aspect

Mr. Hansen said that with the 23 acres south of the Megaplex they were trying to create a center
that would have the daytime use to support the retail businesses around the area. He said that the
Megaplex had captured the nighttime business traffic. He mentioned that it was the number 3
Megaplex location in the nation. He said that they also needed to bring in office use which would
provide the daytime use to help the retail to help the retail businesses. They were trying to create
an area where people who worked here would want to live here.

Mr. Hansen presented an aerial drone video of the area around the Topgolf in Midvale. He gave a
background of the area. He said that when Topgolf was announced in 2014, it began to spur
development.

Mr. Hansen stated that they already had three (3) commitments from office users on their Vineyard
site for three buildings on Mill Road for medical offices. They have commitments for leases,
contingent on the golf venue coming in. He mentioned that Mr. Allred had invested $1 million so
far but the development was contingent on securing the funding to start moving forward. He felt
creating the entertainment hub would be a draw for the whole valley. He mentioned that this site
was not ideal for a grocery store.

Chair Fullmer asked Mr. Hansen to explain the Lubbock Texas site. Mr. Hansen explained that
BigShots opened a site in the middle of nowhere but was profitable its first year. He mentioned
that the BigShots in Vineyard would only be 60% of the size of Topgolf.




Page 2 of 9; December 12, 2018 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
Chair Fullmer asked Mr. Hansen to explain the franchise model. Mr. Hansen explained the Mr.
Allred would be franchising the rights to build a BigShots facility, BigShots would advertise. He
mentioned that BigShots had just secured a large financial partner to help with advertising
throughout the US.

Chair Fullmer asked Mr. Hansen to compare the TGI Fridays franchise model with the BigShots
model. Mr. Hansen explained that the BigShots franchise was based off of the location as well as
the strength of the entire company. He said that Mr. Allred had to vet his financials for the security
of the BigShots corporation. Each TGI Fridays franchise was attached to the corporation and when
it failed it took down all of the franchises. Chair Fullmer explained that BigShots would still
provide the technology, the entertainment uses, and the branding for the franchises.

Chair Fullmer asked Mr. Allred to explain what would happen if they were not able to secure a
tenant for the restaurant. Mr. Allred explained that for Lubbock, the county had a population of
22,000 people. People agreed that they had overbuilt the facility based on the population, but they
were still able to turn a profit their first year. He thought that one of the reasons it was still
profitable in Lubbock was the large student population. He said the in terms of the franchising it
was territory rights, where they provide the technology, chef-inspired menu, the golf instruction,
and overall systems of the business. He mentioned that BigShots was only a few years old. He said
they were in process of doing a joint venture with ClubCorp who was the largest operator of
country clubs in the United States. ClubCorp was acquired by Apollo Private Equity Group for 1.1
billion last year. With this venture BigShots would be adding power, strength, and funding.

Mr. Allred explained that he had never operated a facility like this. He said that he felt reassured
having the backing of ClubCorp. He added that ClubCorp would be able to provide food and
beverage services, as well as human resources, marketing, advertising, payroll support, etc.

Chair Fullmer asked Mr. Allred to talk about the restaurant if they were not able to get a tenant
such as the Cheesecake Factory. Mr. Allred explained that ClubCorp and Troon Golf had food and
beverage options they could use. He added that there were also local options they could explore.
He said the food was an integral part of the business.

Chair Fullmer asked about the potential for the expansion of the bays. Mr. Allred replied that they
had done market studies to determine the correct number of bays. He said the for the current
market that 56 to 60 would be the perfect fit. He said that they would construct the facility in a way
that they could add an additional 30 bays to handle future growth.

Boardmember Judd stated that he liked the aerial view they provided. He explained that 2009 was
right after the recession in 2008 and banks were not lending at that time. He felt that development
was due to market timing. There was a discussion about the naming of the BigShots locations.
Boardmember Judd felt that the Lubbock location looked better and had better reviews than the
Florida location. He asked Mr. Allred to compare the locations to the Vineyard location. Mr.
Allred felt that it would be a significantly better design and overall experience. He said that he
wanted it to be similar to the Topgolf experience. Chair Fullmer asked if it would be more upscale
than the Midvale business. Mr. Allred replied that it would be comparable to the Topgolf. Mr.
Hansen also stated that they wanted it to be comparable to the Midvale location.

 Mr. Allred felt that the technology at Topgolf was outdated. He said that they would be using
more innovative technology. There was a discussion about the technology. Boardmember Earnest
felt that they would appeal to both amateurs and real golfers. Mr. Allred agreed. He mentioned that
there would be a sports lounge on the top floor for customers to watch sporting events.
Mr. Allred explained that he was conservative in nature and outlined all of the risks for this
Page 3 of 9; December 12, 2018 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
business. He said that most entertainment businesses thrived in a recession.

Boardmember Flake asked about the large corporate gathering area. Mr. Allred replied that there
would be 2,000 square feet dedicated to flexible corporate rental space. He said that they could
make a lot of revenue from this space. He explained that they would be including corporate suites
on the top floor with private bays.

Boardmember Flake asked about the size of the restaurant. Mr. Towner replied that it would be a
3,500-square-foot restaurant with an open patio. There would be a restaurant on the main level and
upper floor.

Chair Fullmer asked about how this type of facility would help medical partners.

Andrew Evans with Carr Healthcare Realty said that he was representing Alpine Pediatrics and
Valley OB/GYN on a medical office in the complex near the proposed golf facility. He said that
when people saw a high-class facility, they would know that the rest of the facility would have
high standards, which he felt would protect their investment. He said that the complex would be a
10,000-square-foot pediatric, a 6,000-square-foot OB/GYN office, and a 4,000-square-foot
pediatric dentist office. He said that the golf facility would be a magnet and billboard for them. He
also felt that they could use this facility as a recruiting tool to bring in quality doctors. He added
that from their perspective, without the golf facility their deal would be in jeopardy.

Mr. Towner explained that they were making an attempt to bring in higher wage earners to spend
time and money in the area.

Boardmember Flake expressed concern with office space not selling. Mr. Towner replied that it
depended on where the office space was located. He said that they had a Letter of Intent (LOI) for
a 20,000 to 30,000 square foot office, contingent the golf facility coming adjacent to this office. He
mentioned that they had also been approached by a hospitality company. He felt that when they
had an anchor it was a different story. He said that they would like to lease the office space as
quickly as possible. He said that their brokers felt the that they could have 100 percent of the office
space leased within one year if they could make the golf facility deal happen. He added that they
had 50 percent of the office space pre-leased. Chair Fullmer mentioned that other developers felt
that this golf facility would benefit their sites. Mr. Hansen mentioned that a majority of the space
would be owner occupied.

Boardmember Judd thought that the Megaplex was sold to the RDA as the anchor to bring in other
developments. Mr. Towner replied that the Megaplex had done a good job of bringing in the
nighttime traffic and now they needed to add the daytime traffic.

Boardmember Flake asked if their timeline was firm. Mr. Towner replied that they had stringent
requirements on lending that required them to have to have a certain ratio of leases. He said the he
had spoken with Mr. Brim on the site plan approval process. He stated that he would have the golf
facility open in April of 2020 if approved today.

Mr. Brim said that if the project were approved, they would need to amend the Zoning Code for
height approvals. There would also be site plan and conditional use approvals.

Boardmember Judd mentioned that it was not just the golf venue, it also included medical,
corporate, and retail uses. He expressed concern with not meeting the timelines. He asked if they
could put benchmarks to actually see the development happen. Mr. Towner replied that Alpine
Pediatrics had a requirement that they open within 24 months from the time the developer received
Page 4 of 9; December 12, 2018 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
approval for the golf facility.

Mr. McHargue replied that there was a way to tie the future increment to a threshold or to have
certain amount of development occur in a certain amount of time.

Boardmember Riley stated that it was about the money and asked why they needed to request so
much. He asked where the private investor money was. He said that there were other projects they
could spend the money on. Mr. Hansen replied that Mr. Allred had to put together his pro forma
based on what this area performs to. He said that they took the overall costs and the gap between
the two. He said that they would not meet the ratio without the RDA funds. He mentioned that
other cities offered incentives. He said that they asked for a percentage for funds based on
development of the site. He said that the options they looked at were 60/30 and 50% off of the
site, which would leave money for the RDA to fund other projects. He said that they had a
feasibility study done, which determined that they could lease out the site in under 12 months if
they had the golf facility. If they did not, it could be a 7-to-10-year absorption rate. He explained
that they were only taking a portion of the sale tax revenue this site would be generating and
giving the rest back to the city for other projects.

Boardmember Earnest asked if the RDA could fund the other projects and bring in the golf facility.
He felt that this was exactly what Vineyard needed. Mr. McHargue replied that there were $100
million in obligations and projects that had not been funded yet. He added that this did not include
any future tax increment. He said that all of the current tax increment was dedicated to bonds.
Boardmember Earnest asked if they could make this happen. Mr. McHargue replied that there was
a scenario where they could make this happen.

Chair Fullmer asked Mr. McHargue to present the funding options. Mr. McHargue said that to
answer Boardmember Earnest’s question, there were projects that were not funded and projects
identified as priorities. He said that they would be prioritizing this project over other projects. He
added that this project would bring in additional tax increment to fund other projects, but it would
be taking some of that money. If the rest of the RDA land developed the way they anticipated, then
they would have the money.

Mr. McHargue reviewed the spreadsheet, which showed the property tax increment on the
proposed site. He said that there would be a $48 million taxable value, creating 600,000 a year in
tax increment. He explained that the RDA received 75 percent of the taxable increment. He said
that part of the money was dedicated to administration and housing so they would be splitting the
rest. He had a list of the approved RDA projects.

Mr. McHargue reviewed a few options:
Option 1
   • 0                  Upfront money
   • 60%                Ongoing participation
   • $3.9 million       Present value at a 5% discount
   • $3.9 million       Total incentive

Option 2
   • $500,000                Upfront money
   • 50%                     Ongoing participation
   • $3.2 million            Present value at a 5% discount
   • $3.7 million            Total incentive
Option 3
Page 5 of 9; December 12, 2018 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
    •   1,400,000            Upfront money
    •   30%                  Ongoing participation
    •   $1.968 million       Present value at a 5% discount
    •   $3.3 million         Total incentive

Option 4
   • $2.9 million            Upfront money
   • 0%                      Ongoing participation
   • 0                       Annual Contribution
   • 0                       Present value at a 5% discount
   • $2.9 million            Total incentive

Mr. McHargue felt that Option 4 was not feasible.

Boardmember Earnest asked if Option 2 was the most feasible. Mr. McHargue explained that the
upfront money could come from a fee and impact fee waiver/abatement. Boardmember Earnest
asked if this would have the least impact on everything else they were working towards. Mr.
Church replied that they would have to replace the impact fee from other funding sources. There
was a discussion about impact fees.

Boardmember Judd asked about the investor pro forma and what that amount was per square foot
on an annual basis and how they identified the shortfall. Mr. Towner replied that Mr. Allred was
investing the most. Mr. Hansen replied that the square footage was by size of the building, which
when compared to retail numbers, would be mid to upper $20 per square foot. There was further
discussion about the pro forma. Boardmember Judd said that if they were looking to spend money
from the RDA on a project they needed to know why. Mr. Towner said that he had 80,000 square
feet of surrounding commitments so they needed to look at the project as a whole. Boardmember
Judd asked if they could provide the lease agreements for the surrounding buildings. Mr. Towner
replied that he could ask for permission to share them. Boardmember Judd stated that he wanted to
see the benefit. Mr. Towner said that he had commitments from Alpine Pediatrics, Valley
OB/GYN, and Stewart Medical. He wanted a guarantee that the documents he gave to the board
would remain confidential. Mr. Church stated that they would be a protected document and
remain confidential. Boardmember Judd said that it would help him see the whole vision.

Mr. Hansen said the RDA had to start collecting the tax increment in 2020 off of the whole site. He
said the that they would be performance based and limited to the number of years they had starting
in 2020.

Boardmember Riley asked if the increment was being run to the end of the RDA period or if there
were capping it. Mr. McHargue replied that he was running it to the end but they could cap it in the
approval if they chose to. There was a discussion about the options.

Boardmember Riley expressed concern with long-term commitments because it tied the hands of
the city. He said that he was okay with it if they could incentivize and help someone get off the
ground and it would benefit both sides. He felt that they should not be long-term partners. He said
that he did not want an ordinary train station and they had to put money into it if they wanted
something different. He said that if he thought about putting the same money into the train station,
what kind of return the RDA would get from it? He said that he was not in favor of being
committed to the end of the RDA. Mr. Hansen felt that they needed to look at that if they could not
get the project off the ground and the land sat vacant for 10 years, then where would they be? He
said that they were trying to do what would work best for the city, and the money coming into the
Page 6 of 9; December 12, 2018 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
city would be higher than if they did not do anything. Boardmember Riley stated that that was
assuming they got no other applicants. There was further discussion about the request.

Boardmember Earnest asked what would be put on the back burner if they did one of the options.
He stated that this development was more important to him right now. Mr. McHargue replied that
they had not identified all of the RDA’s priorities.

Chair Fullmer asked Mr. McHargue to compare the train station for everyone’s benefit. Mr.
McHargue explained that they received a grant to help cover the costs. He said they had prioritized
$5 million from the RDA but now the UTA needed $4 million more for a double track. Chair
Fullmer stated that this was a regional issue. Mr. McHargue explained the UDOT bond and
projects that they had it allocated for. He said that with the cost identified they were $6 million
short with no plan to fund it. There was a discussion about funding projects. Mr. McHargue
explained that they would not be waiving impact fees for the development. They would have to
pay them out of the RDA budget. The discussion continued. Boardmember Earnest felt that most
of the projects were practical but felt that they needed to bring in fun and neat things to Vineyard.

Chair Fullmer felt that they should to discuss the stipulations needed to make this workable.

Boardmember Riley stated that he was not prepared to make a decision tonight. He felt that there
was more information that had to be gathered. He asked if the RDA financial advisory had vetted
this information. He felt they needed a second set of eyes. Mr. McHargue replied that he had not
worked with Lewis Young Robertson and Burningham on this. He stated that it was a significant
cost to the RDA to have Lewis Young review the applications. Boardmember Riley requested that
Mr. McHargue meet with Lewis Young.

The Boards stipulations were:
Boardmember Riley:
   1. Meet with the financial advisor
   2. Clawbacks (bench marks) pieces based on performance

Boardmember Flake:
   1. Future increment tied to their presented or agreeable timeline
   2. Cap the number, using Option 2

 Boardmember Judd:
   1. Needed to know they were not in default on the loan – Something provided by the lender
      annually.
   2. Lease agreements
   3. Clawbacks (bench marks) required because it was a startup company, no information about
      the investor group
   4. Leaning to Option 2 with a cap
   5. Lewis Young to review it

 Boardmember Earnest:
   1. Liked everything stated
   2. Prioritize the RDA to know what they have to work with. Chair Fullmer recommended that
      staff provide a report to help them prioritize the projects.
   3. Option 2


 Boardmember Riley asked if there were other financial options with the new partnership
Page 7 of 9; December 12, 2018 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
announced today. Mr. Allred replied no.

Chair Fullmer mentioned that the next meeting they were looking at was in January and asked
what the applicant needed. Mr. Allred replied that he needed to know as soon as possible. He
mentioned that he had looked at other options and this was the best one. He stated that this was an
expensive project and the RDA money would make it more manageable. Chair Fullmer asked if
the second week in January would work for him. Mr. Allred replied that they were ready to go
now and it might delay their March 1 start date. He added that a delay would cause significant
challenges. There was a discussion about making the timeline to get the information that the RDA
Board had requested for the January meeting. Mr. McHargue stated that he would get the answers
no matter when they scheduled the next meeting. The discussion continued. Mr. Church felt that
from the discussion there were three votes to do something. He said that the RDA and applicants
needed to understand that they would need to approve a written contract. He suggested that they
make a motion to approve the subsidy in concept, with the option they preferred contingent upon
the contract and the due diligence meeting the RDA Boards expectations. He said that they could
then do the due diligence, put together a contract and have it set up for the next meeting.

Boardmember Riley stated that he recognized that they did not need all five votes. He said the he
was not prepared to vote for this project. His concern was if they use the money for the golf
facility what other projects would they not be able to do.

Chair Fullmer mentioned that if they made a motion and did not pass then they would have to
bring it back.

There was further discussion about a special meeting date.

Boardmember Judd asked how many years the funding would go for. Mr. McHargue replied that
it was 25 years. Mr. Church replied that it would be a percentage of the tax increment received
and the developer would take the risk. He explained that they had anticipated funding some of the
projects in the RDA if the projections had been met on the Megaplex site. He said that they had
already committed a significant amount of RDA money to make a project like this happen.

Mr. Towner asked how this site would fund other projects if it did not get developed. Mr. Church
replied that their site was cleaned up, and had infrastructure added to it from tax increment
generated by the sites on the north end. Mr. Towner asked how the site would fund future projects
if it stayed vacant. Mr. Church replied that it should not have stayed as is if the projections and
predictions of other developers had been more accurate. There was further discussion about
funding of projects.

Chair Fullmer asked if the board would like to hold a special session or make a motion tonight.
The Board agreed to hold a special session.

Chair Fullmer called for a motion.

Motion: BOARDMEMBER JUDD MOVED TO HOLD A SPECIAL SESSION ON TUESDAY
DECEMBER 18 TO GET THE INFORMATION AND MAKE A VOTE THAT NIGHT.
BOARDMEMBER FLAKE SECONDED THE MOTION. CHAIR FULLMER,
BOARDMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.



Page 8 of 9; December 12, 2018 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
ADJOURNMENT
Chair Fullmer called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.

Motion: BOARDMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO ADJOURN THE MEETING AT 9:51 PM.
BOARDMEMBER JUDD SECONDED THE MOTION. CHAIR FULLMER,
BOARDMEMBERS, EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. THE MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.


RDA meetings are scheduled as needed.


MINUTES APPROVED ON:               January 9, 2019

CERTIFIED CORRECT BY: /s/ Pamela Spencer
PAMELA SPENCER, CITY RECORDER




Page 9 of 9; December 12, 2018 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
