                              MINUTES OF THE VINEYARD
                      REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD MEETING
                          City Hall, 125 South Main, Vineyard, Utah
                                February 13, 2019 – 7:58 PM


Present                                           Absent
Chair Julie Fullmer
Boardmember John Earnest
Boardmember Tyce Flake
Boardmember Chris Judd
Boardmember Nate Riley

Staff Present: City Manager/Finance Director Jacob McHargue, Public Works Director/City
Engineer Don Overson, Assistant City Engineer Chris Wilson, City Attorney David Church,
Sergeant Holden Rockwell with the Utah County Sheriff’s Office, Community Development
Director Morgan Brim, Planning Commission Chair Cristy Welsh, City Planner Elizabeth Hart,
City Recorder Pamela Spencer, Water/Parks Manager Sullivan Love

Others Speaking: Brandon Watson with Edge Homes, Resident David Lauret

7:58 PM         REDEVELOPMENT BOARD MEETING


CALL TO ORDER
Chair Fullmer opened the meeting at 7:58 PM.


CONSENT AGENDA
2.1 Approval of the January 9, 2018 RDA Meeting Minutes

Chair Fullmer called for a motion.

Motion: BOARDMEMBER JUDD MOVED TO APPROVE 2.1 ON THE CONSENT
AGENDA. BOARDMEMBER EARNEST SECONDED THE MOTION. CHAIR FULLMER,
BOARDMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.

BUSINESS ITEMS

3.1 DISCUSSION AND ACTION – Lakefront @ Town Center Open Space Reimbursement
    Agreement
    Jed Stewart with Edge Homes is requesting a reimbursement agreement to improve the
    undeveloped area between Edge Homes’ Lakefront project and the existing Lake Side trail.
    The RDA Board will take appropriate action.

Chair Fullmer turned the time over to City Manager/Finance Director Jacob McHargue.

Mr. McHargue explained that this reimbursement request was for the open space between the
Edge Homes development and the lake. He said that they had not given the developer credit
towards the open space because it was on state lands and needed the state’s approval first. He felt
Page 1 of 3; February 13, 2019 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
that it would be in the RDA’s best interest to have the land improved. He said that the developer
had submitted an application for reimbursement for whatever the costs were to improve the open
space. He felt that this would eliminate a lot of the illegal activity happing in that area.
Boardmember Riley asked if there was a percentage of the dollar amount they were asking for and
if the developer was willing to contribute. Mr. McHargue replied that he had a preliminary
meeting with the developer today to discuss what the cost sharing would be. There was a
discussion about the cost sharing.

Boardmember Riley asked where the existing trail was at. Mr. McHargue replied that the existing
trail would stay.

The board asked what the plan and timeline was to develop land. Boardmember Judd asked if
there was any feedback from the discussion held earlier in the day. Brandon Watson with Edge
Homes said that they had not been given any credit for this open space, so as far as contribution
went, and if they were asked to contribute a percentage then they would want credit for the open
space. He explained that there would be a trail along the back of the condominium units, a
connection to the existing trail, and that the landscaping would be a mixture of native
revegetation. Chair Fullmer asked if this would follow the in-lieu substitution of open space and
be in place of the promenade or if it would be reimbursed. Mr. Watson replied that they wanted
the funds to go towards the promenade. He explained that the trail running along the
condominiums would be landscaped with sod and/or vegetation and the Homeowners Association
(HOA) would maintain it. He further explained that beyond the trail would be native vegetation.
Boardmember Judd suggested that they try to get matching grants and give the developer credit if
they help find them.

Boardmember Riley stated that the developer would benefit immensely from the improvements
and that he needed to decide how much he was willing to contribute. He felt that improving the
land was in the developers’ best interest, in order to attract people and build the units. He did not
know if it was 100 percent the city’s responsibility. Chair Fullmer asked if the promenade could
be exchanged for other areas. Mr. Brim replied that the code allowed for other areas as approved
by the City Planner and Council. He stated that the promenade was clearly the priority in the
code. Chair Fullmer asked if it still followed the code if the city did not own the land. Mr. Brim
replied that he would look into it. He felt that the promenade was a lot clearer in the code. Chair
Fullmer stated that the promenade was her first priority. Boardmember Riley felt that this
application was deceiving. He also felt that if it was going to be native grasses, then he did not
want it. Mr. Brim suggested that they could have conditions in the agreement. He said that the
idea was to give base line improvements.

Boardmember Earnest felt that the developer and city could be more creative on the
improvements. There was a discussion about the process with the state.

Boardmember Flake asked if the road was bisecting that area. Mr. Brim replied that the road
would go away. Boardmember Earnest stated that he wanted to know what the state would let the
city do before they put money into it. Boardmember Flake asked who would be responsible to
maintain it. Mr. Church replied that the state lease/rights would have to be with the city and the
city would have outlined rights in order to use it for public benefit.

Boardmember Judd asked if they were establishing this as a property tax increment. Mr.
McHargue replied that the reimbursement agreement would have to come from the tax increment.
Boardmember Judd stated that he was excited to get this area as green space. He said that he was
willing to count this as equity in open space, if the developer were to help get grants. He stated
Page 2 of 3; February 13, 2019 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
that he did not want to exchange the in lieu of open space for the promenade. Mr. Brim felt that
they needed to meet with the state first and then hold a work session to discuss the vision for the
area.

Resident David Lauret asked if the code required 30 percent green space and was it negotiated
down. Mr. Brim replied that it was 20 percent and based off of the open space types. He added that
they would be getting more than 20 percent.

Boardmember Riley suggested that they look into involvement from the Utah Lake Commission.
Mr. Brim felt that it would be good to have a liaison from the board to work with them. Chair
Fullmer reminded the board the Boardmember Flake served on the Utah Lake Commission, but
suggested that he and Boardmember Earnest work on it together.


ADJOURNMENT
Chair Fullmer called for a motion to adjourn the meeting.

Motion: BOARDMEMBER FLAKE MOVED TO ADJOURN THE MEETING AT 8:16 PM.
BOARDMEMBER EARNEST SECONDED THE MOTION. CHAIR FULLMER,
BOARDMEMBERS EARNEST, FLAKE, JUDD, AND RILEY VOTED AYE. MOTION
CARRIED UNANIMOUSLY.


RDA meetings are scheduled as needed.


MINUTES APPROVED ON:               March 13, 2019

CERTIFIED CORRECT BY: /s/ Pamela Spencer
PAMELA SPENCER, CITY RECORDER




Page 3 of 3; February 13, 2019 Vineyard Redevelopment Agency Minutes
