                                      VINEYARD
                                   ORDINANCE 2021-10

   AN ORDINANCE OF THE VINEYARD CITY COUNCIL AMENDING THE
VINEYARD MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 2.14 ELECTIONS BY ADDING NEW
    SECTIONS AND AMENDING SECTION 2.14.030 CAMPAIGN FINANCE
    STATEMENTS AND RENUMBERING IT TO 2.14.110; AND DELETING
           SECTION 2.04 ELECTION OF GOVERNING BODY.

       WHEREAS, The Vineyard City Council under the authority of Utah Code 10-3 to
amend the municipal code; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the
citizens of the city to amend Chapter 2.14 Elections; and

       NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Vineyard, in the State of
Utah, as follows:


       SECTION 1:            AMENDMENT “2.04 Election Of Governing Body
(Reserved)” of the Vineyard Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                     AMEN DMEN T

2.04 Election Of Governing Body (Reserved)



       SECTION 2:            ADOPTION “2.14.010 Definitions” of the Vineyard Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

2.14.010 Definitions(Added)

For the purpose of this chapter, the terms identified below shall have the following meanings:

"Agent of a candidate" means:

    A. Any individual acting on behalf of a candidate at the direction of the reporting entity;
    B. Any individual employed by a candidate in the candidate's capacity as a candidate;
    C. The personal campaign committee of a candidate
    D. Any member of the personal campaign committee of a candidate in the member's
       capacity as a member of the personal campaign committee of the candidate; or
    E. A political consultant of a candidate.
"Anonymous contribution limit" means for each calendar year: a total amount of fifty dollars
($50.00) and is from unknow sources.

"Candidate" means an individual who files a declaration of candidacy for municipal office or
who receives contributions, makes expenditures, or gives consent for any other individual to
receive contributions or to make expenditures to bring about the individual's election to a
municipal office.

“Candidate” does not include an individual who filed for the office of judge.

“Contribution” means:

    A. A monetary contribution;
    B. A gift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, or anything of value given to a
       candidate;
    C. A contract, promise or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, loan, advance,
       or deposit of money or anything of value to the candidate;
    D. Any transfer of funds from another reporting entity to the candidate;
    E. Compensation paid by any individual or reporting entity, other than the candidate, for
       personal services provided without charge to the candidate;
    F. A loan made by a candidate deposited to the candidate’s own campaign; or
    G. Any in-kind contribution.

A “contribution” does not include:

    A. Services provided by an individual volunteering the individual’s time on behalf of the
       candidate if the services are provided without compensation by the candidate, an agent
       of the candidate, or any other person;
    B. Money lent to the candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of
       business; or
    C. Goods or services provided for the benefit of a candidate at less than fair market value
       that were not authorized by or coordinated with the candidate or an agent of the
       candidate.

“Coordinating with the candidate” means providing services or goods for the benefit of a
candidate or using official logos, slogans, or elements belonging to or owned by the candidate,
with the prior knowledge or agreement of the candidate or an agent of the candidate.

“Expenditure” means:

    A. Any disbursement from a campaign account in a financial institution of contributions
       or receipts;
    B. A purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, or
       anything of value made for political purposes;
    C. An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make any purchase,
       payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, or anything of
       value for a political purpose;
       Compensation paid by a candidate or an agent of the candidate for personal services
     B. A purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, or
        anything of value made for political purposes;
     C. An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make any purchase,
        payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, or anything of
        value for a political purpose;
        Compensation paid by a candidate or an agent of the candidate for personal services
     D. rendered by an individual without charge to a reporting entity;

     E. Transfer of funds between the candidate and a candidate's personal campaign
        committee as defined in Section 20A-11-101 or
     F. Goods or services provided by a reporting entity for the benefit of the candidate for
        political purposes at less than fair market value.

“Expenditure” does not include

     A. services provided without compensation by an individual volunteering the individual’s
        time on behalf of the candidate; or
     B. money lent to a candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business.

“In-kind contribution” means anything of value other than money that is accepted by the
candidate, an agent of the candidate, or through coordinating with the candidate. “Monetary
contribution” means a contribution given to a candidate or an agent of the candidate of any
money or credit made in cash, check, or any electronic transfer.

“Political consultant” means an individual who is paid by a candidate, or paid by another
person on behalf of and with the knowledge of the candidate, to provide political advice to the
candidate and includes individuals who:

     A. Have already been paid with money or other consideration;
     B. Expects to be paid in the future with money or other consideration; or
     C. Understands that they may be paid in the future, with money or other consideration, at
        the discretion of the candidate, or another person on behalf of and with the knowledge
        of the candidate.

“Political purposes” means an act done with the intent or in a way to influence or tend to
influence, directly or indirectly, any individual to refrain from voting or to vote for or against
any candidate or an individual seeking a municipal office at any caucus, political convention,
or election. "Reporting date" means ten days before a municipal primary or general election,
for a campaign finance statement required to be filed no later than seven days before a
municipal primary or general election; and the day of filing, for a campaign finance statement
required to be filed no later than 30 days after a municipal primary or general election.
“Reporting entity” means:

     A. A candidate;
     B. A committee appointed by a candidate to act for the candidate.

"Reporting limit" means $50.00.

"Write-in candidate" means a candidate who has qualified as a write-in candidate by following
the procedures and requirements of this chapter.
"Write-in candidate" means a candidate who has qualified as a write-in candidate by following
the procedures and requirements of this chapter.




      SECTION 3:            ADOPTION “2.14.020 Terms Of Office” of the Vineyard
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                        ADO P TIO N

2.14.020 Terms Of Office(Added)

    A. A municipal general election shall be held in Vineyard City on the first Tuesday after
       the first Monday in November of each odd-numbered year. At the municipal general
       election, the voters shall:
              1. Choose individuals to serve as municipal officers to fill all elective offices
                 vacated by 12:00 noon on the first Monday in January following the election;
                 and
              2. Approve or reject any proposed initiatives or referenda that have qualified for
                 the ballot as provided by law and any other ballot propositions submitted to
                 the voters that are authorized by the Utah Code.
    B. The officers elected shall continue in the office to which they were elected for four (4)
       years except in case of death, resignation, removal, or disqualification from office. The
       officers so elected shall begin their term of office at 12:00 noon on the first Monday in
       January following their election.



      SECTION 4:            ADOPTION “2.14.030 Election Of Officers” of the Vineyard
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                        ADO P TIO N

2.14.030 Election Of Officers(Added)

The election and terms of office shall be as follows:

    A. In the year following a year in which a presidential election is held, the offices of
       mayor and two (2) councilmembers shall be filled a municipal general election. Their
       terms shall be for four (4) years.
    B. In the year preceding a year in which a presidential election is held, the offices of the
       other two (2) councilmembers shall be filled in a municipal general election. Their
       terms shall be for four (4) years.
    C. The officers shall be elected in at-large elections which are held at the time and in the
       manner provided for electing municipal officers.
    D. On or before May 1st in a year in which there is a municipal general election, the city
       recorder shall publish a notice identifying the municipal offices to be voted upon in the
       general municipal election which satisfies the requirements of § 10-3-301, Utah Code
       (1953, as amended).
    C. The officers shall be elected in at-large elections which are held at the time and in the
       manner provided for electing municipal officers.
    D. On or before May 1st in a year in which there is a municipal general election, the city
       recorder shall publish a notice identifying the municipal offices to be voted upon in the
       general municipal election which satisfies the requirements of § 10-3-301, Utah Code
       (1953, as amended).



      SECTION 5:            ADOPTION “2.14.040 Primary Elections” of the Vineyard
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

2.14.040 Primary Elections(Added)

Vineyard shall utilize the primary election procedure established by §20A-9-404 and §20A-1-
201.5 Utah Code (1953, as amended), as the procedure to establish candidates for municipal
offices if the number of candidates for any particular city office exceeds twice the number of
individuals needed to fill that office.



       SECTION 6:           ADOPTION “2.14.050 Declaration Of Candidacy
Requirements” of the Vineyard Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

2.14.050 Declaration Of Candidacy Requirements(Added)

    A. Each individual seeking to become a candidate for municipal office shall file a
       declaration of candidacy, which complies with the requirements described in § 20A-9-
       203 of the Utah Code (1953, as amended), with the city recorder during office hours
       and not later than 5:00 p.m. between June 1st and June 7th of any odd-numbered year.
       When June 7th is a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, the filing time shall be extended until
       5:00 p.m. on the following business day. The declaration of candidacy shall be filed in
       person by the individual seeking to be a candidate, or by the individual’s agent,
       provided the requirements of § 20A-9-203(5), Utah Code (1953, as amended), are
       properly satisfied.
    B. Before filing a declaration of candidacy for election to any city office, an individual
       shall:
              1. Be a registered voter;
              2. Have resided within the boundaries of Vineyard City for at least twelve (12)
                 consecutive months immediately preceding the date of the election. In the case
                 of annexation by Vineyard City, any individual who has resided in the
                 territory annexed for the prescribed twelve (12) month period is deemed to
                 meet the residence requirements for candidacy in Vineyard City;
              3. Not have had their right to hold public office restricted pursuant to Article IV,
                 Section 6 of the Utah Constitution or they shall have had their right to hold
                 elective office restored pursuant to §20A-2-101.3 and §20A-2-101.5, Utah
                 Code (1953, as amended).
    C. An individual seeking to file a declaration of candidacy may not:
              1. Be a candidate for more than one (1) office in the state of Utah during any
            3. Not have had their right to hold public office restricted pursuant to Article IV,
               Section 6 of the Utah Constitution or they shall have had their right to hold
               elective office restored pursuant to §20A-2-101.3 and §20A-2-101.5, Utah
               Code (1953, as amended).
    C. An individual seeking to file a declaration of candidacy may not:
            1. Be a candidate for more than one (1) office in the state of Utah during any
               election year; or

               2. Be a current employee of Vineyard City.
    D. Before accepting any declaration of candidacy, the filing officer shall:
               1. Read to the prospective candidate the constitutional and statutory qualification
                  requirements for the office that the candidate is seeking; and
               2. Require the candidate to state whether or not the candidate meets those
                  requirements.
    E. If the prospective candidate states that they do not meet the qualification requirements
        for the office, the filing officer may not accept the prospective candidate’s declaration
        of candidacy.
    F. If the candidate states that they meet the requirements of candidacy, the filing officer
        shall:
               1. Accept the candidate’s declaration of candidacy;
               2. Inform the candidate that their name will appear on the ballot as the their name
                  is written on the declaration of candidacy.
               3. Provide a certified copy of the declaration of candidacy to the Lieutenant
                  Governor's Office;
               4. Provide the candidate with a copy of the pledge of fair campaign practices
                  described under § 20A-9-206, Utah Code (1953, as amended), and inform the
                  candidate that signing the pledge is voluntary and that signed pledges shall be
                  filed with the city for public inspection; and
               5. If the candidate elects to sign the pledge of fair campaign practices, the filing
                  officer shall accept the candidate’s pledge.
    G. The form of the declaration of candidacy shall be as established by § 20A-9-203, Utah
        Code (1953, as amended).
    H. The candidate shall pay the filing fee listed in the Vineyard Consolidated Fee Schedule
        (as amended).
     I. Any resident of Vineyard may nominate a candidate for a city office by filing a
        nomination petition with the city recorder during office hours but not later than 5:00
        p.m. between June 1st and June 7th of any odd-numbered year. When June 7th is a
        Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, the filing time shall be extended until 5:00 p.m. on the
        following business day.
               1. The nomination petition must be signed by twenty-five (25) registered voters
                  who reside in Vineyard City.
               2. The form of the nomination petition shall be as established by § 20A-9-203,
                  Utah Code (1953, as amended).



      SECTION 7:            ADOPTION “2.14.060 Write-In Candidates” of the Vineyard
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                        ADO P TIO N

2.14.060 Write-In Candidates(Added)
      SECTION 7:            ADOPTION “2.14.060 Write-In Candidates” of the Vineyard
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                        ADO P TIO N

2.14.060 Write-In Candidates(Added)

    A. Each individual wishing to become a valid write-in candidate shall file a declaration of

       candidacy with the city recorder not later than sixty-five (65) days before the regular
       municipal general election. If the filing deadline falls on a weekend or holiday, it shall
       be extended to the next regular business day.
    B. The city recorder shall:
            1. Read to the candidate the constitutional and statutory requirements for the
               office as required in Section 2.14.050 of this chapter; and
            2. Ask the candidate whether or not the candidate meets the requirements. If the
               candidate cannot meet the requirements of office, the filing officer may not
               accept the write-in candidate’s declaration of candidacy.
    C. A voter may cast a write-in vote by entering the name of a valid write-in candidate on
       a paper ballot or ballot sheet or in the areas designated on any other form of ballot
       provided.




      SECTION 8:             ADOPTION “2.14.070 Certification Of Candidates - Objection
To Candidates” of the Vineyard Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                        ADO P TIO N

2.14.070 Certification Of Candidates - Objection To Candidates(Added)

    A. The city recorder shall verify with the county clerk that all candidates are registered
       voters. Any candidate who is not registered to vote is disqualified and the recorder
       may not include the candidate’s name on the ballot.
    B. Immediately after expiration of the period for filing a declaration of candidacy, the city
       recorder shall:
             1. Cause the names of the candidates as they will appear on the ballot to be
                 published in at least two (2) successive publications of a newspaper with
                 general circulation in Lindon; and
             2. Notify the lieutenant governor of the names of the candidates as they will
                 appear on the ballot.
    C. A declaration of candidacy or nomination petition is valid unless a written objection is
       filed with the clerk within five (5) days after the last day for filing. If an objection is
       made, the clerk shall:
             1. Mail or personally deliver notice of the objection to the affected candidate
                 immediately; and
             2. Decide any objection within forty-eight (48) hours after it is filed.
    D. If the city recorder sustains the objection, the candidate may correct the problem by
       amending the declaration or petition within three (3) days after the objection is
       sustained or by filing a new declaration within three (3) days after the objection is
       sustained.
    E. The city recorder’s decision on an objection to form is final. Challenges to the city
       recorder’s decision on substantive matters shall be made pursuant to § 20-9-203, Utah
                 immediately; and
             2. Decide any objection within forty-eight (48) hours after it is filed.
    D. If the city recorder sustains the objection, the candidate may correct the problem by
       amending the declaration or petition within three (3) days after the objection is
       sustained or by filing a new declaration within three (3) days after the objection is
       sustained.
    E. The city recorder’s decision on an objection to form is final. Challenges to the city
       recorder’s decision on substantive matters shall be made pursuant to § 20-9-203, Utah
       Code (1953, as amended).




      SECTION 9:            ADOPTION “2.14.080 Campaign Signs” of the Vineyard
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

2.14.080 Campaign Signs(Added)

    A. No candidate for any public office, including city, county, state, or federal offices or
       the offices of any other political subdivision of the state or federal government, may
       place campaign signs or materials on Vineyard City property. This section shall in no
       way be interpreted as prohibiting any candidate or citizen from engaging in political
       speech in public or in displaying such materials on private property.
    B. Campaign signs shall follow the regulations listed in the Vineyard Zoning Code
       Chapter 15.48 Signs
    C. A temporary sign permit must be obtained according to Vineyard Zoning Code
       Section 15.48.060 Temporary Sign Standards.
    D. Pursuant to §20A-17-102, Utah Code (2014, as amended). Campaign signs:
             1. Except as provided in Subsection (2), a person is guilty of a class B
                misdemeanor if the person knowingly removes, alters, defaces, or otherwise
                vandalizes a sign:
                      a. advocating the election or defeat of a candidate for public office; or
                      b. advocating the approval or defeat of a ballot proposition.
             2. A person is not guilty of a violation of Subsection (1) if the person who
                engages in the conduct described in Subsection (1) is:
                      a. as it relates to a sign described in Subsection (1)(a), the candidate or
                         an agent of the candidate;
                      b. as it relates to a sign described in Subsection (1)(b), the person who
                         placed the sign, the person who directed the placement of the sign, or
                         an agent of either;
                      c. a property owner of property on which the sign is placed or the
                         property owner's agent; or
                      d. a public official who removes the sign in accordance with an official
                         duty of the public official.



       SECTION 10:            ADOPTION “2.14.090 Tie Votes” of the Vineyard Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N
       SECTION 10:            ADOPTION “2.14.090 Tie Votes” of the Vineyard Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:


                                        ADO P TIO N

2.14.090 Tie Votes(Added)


    A. If two (2) or more candidates for a position have an equal and the highest number of
       votes for any office, the election officer shall determine by lot which candidate is
       selected in a public meeting in the presence of each individual subject to the tie within
       thirty (30) days of the canvass or within thirty (30) days of the recount if one (1) is
       requested or held.
    B. For any primary election, if two (2) or more candidates for a position have an equal
       and the highest number of votes for any office, the election officer shall determine by
       lot which candidate is selected in a public meeting in the presence of each individual
       subject to the tie within five (5) days of the canvass or within five (5) days of the
       recount if one (1) is requested or held.



       SECTION 11:             ADOPTION “2.14.100 Eligibility And Residency Required
After Election” of the Vineyard Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                        ADO P TIO N

2.14.100 Eligibility And Residency Required After Election(Added)

Each elected Vineyard City officer shall maintain residency within the boundaries of Vineyard
City during their term of office. If an elected officer established their place of residence, as
provided in § 20-2-14, Utah Code (1953, as amended), outside the boundaries of Vineyard
City during their term of office, the office is automatically vacant. If an elected Vineyard City
officer is absent from Vineyard City any time during their term of office for a continuous
period of more than sixty (60) days without the consent of the city council, the office is
automatically vacant.



       SECTION 12:           AMENDMENT “2.14.030 Campaign Finance Disclosure” of
the Vineyard Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

2.14.030110 Campaign Finance Disclosure

    A. As used in this Section: "Reporting date" means ten days before a municipal general
       election, for a campaign finance statement required to be filed no later than seven days
       before a municipal general election; and the day of filing, for a campaign finance
       statement required to be filed no later than 30 days after a municipal primary or general
       election. "Reporting limit" means $50.00. Deposit of Monetary Contributions. Each
       Candidate:
             1. Shall deposit a monetary contribution in a separate campaign account in a
A. As used in this Section: "Reporting date" means ten days before a municipal general
   election, for a campaign finance statement required to be filed no later than seven days
   before a municipal general election; and the day of filing, for a campaign finance
   statement required to be filed no later than 30 days after a municipal primary or general
   election. "Reporting limit" means $50.00. Deposit of Monetary Contributions. Each
   Candidate:
         1. Shall deposit a monetary contribution in a separate campaign account in a
            financial institution; and
         2. May not deposit or mingle any monetary contributions received into a
            personal or business account.

B. Anonymous Contributions. Within thirty (30) days of receiving a contribution that
   exceeds the anonymous contributions limit, a candidate shall disburse the amount of
   the anonymous contribution to either:
         1. The Utah State Treasurer for deposit into the state’s general fund;
         2. The Vineyard City Recorder for deposit into the city’s general fund; or
         3. An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under Section
            501(c)(3), Internal Revenue Code.
C.       1. In a year in which a municipal primary is held, each candidate who will
            participate in the municipal primary shall file a campaign finance statement
            with the city recorder no later than seven (7) days before the primary election.
         2. Each candidate for Vineyard City municipal office who is not eliminated at a
            municipal primary election shall file with the Ccity Rrecorder a campaign
            finance statement as described in this chapter:
                  a. no later than seven (7) days before the municipal general election;
                     and
                  b. no later than thirty (30) days after the municipal general election.
         3. Each candidate for municipal office, who is eliminated at a municipal primary
            election shall file with the Ccity Rrecorder a campaign finance statement as
            described in this chapter:
                  a. no later than thirty (30) days after the municipal primary election.
D. Each campaign finance statement under Part BC.1 shall, except as provided in Part
   BC.2.b:
         1. report all of the candidate's and party's itemized and total:
                  a. campaign contributions, including in-kind and other nonmonetary
                     contributions, as of the close of the reporting date; and
                  b. campaign expenditures as of the close of the reporting date; and
         2. identify:
                  a. for each contribution that exceeds the reporting limit, the amount of
                     the contribution and the name of the donor;
                  b. the aggregate total of all contributions that individually do not exceed
                     the reporting limit; and
                  c. for each campaign expenditure, the amount of the expenditure and the
                     name of the recipient of the expenditure; or
         3. report the total amount of all campaign contributions and expenditures if the
            candidate receives $500 or less in campaign contributions and spends $500 or
            less on the candidate's campaign.
E. The campaign finance statements for each candidate who receives five hundred dollars
   ($500.00) or less in campaign contributions and spends less than five hundred dollars
   ($500.00) on the candidate’s campaign expenditures shall report the total amount of all
   campaign contributions and expenditures.
F. Campaign finance statements, which are required to be filed seven (7) days before the
   municipal primary and the general elections, shall include all contributions received
   and all expenditures made up to and including five (5) days before the campaign
            candidate receives $500 or less in campaign contributions and spends $500 or
            less on the candidate's campaign.
E. The campaign finance statements for each candidate who receives five hundred dollars
   ($500.00) or less in campaign contributions and spends less than five hundred dollars
   ($500.00) on the candidate’s campaign expenditures shall report the total amount of all
   campaign contributions and expenditures.
F. Campaign finance statements, which are required to be filed seven (7) days before the
   municipal primary and the general elections, shall include all contributions received
   and all expenditures made up to and including five (5) days before the campaign
   finance statement is due.
G. The CityThe city Rrecorder shall, at the time the candidate for municipal office files a
   declaration of candidacy and again 14 days before each municipal general election,
    notify the candidate in writing of:
            1. the provisions of this Section governing the disclosure of campaign
               contributions and expenditures;
            2. the dates when the candidate's and the Party's campaign finance statement is
               required to be filed; and
            3. the penalties that apply for failure to file a timely campaign finance statement,
               including the statutory provision that requires removal of the candidate's name
               from the ballot for failure to file the required campaign finance statement when
               required.
H. Notwithstanding any provision of Title 63G, Chapter 2, Government Records Access
    and Management Act, the Ccity Rcecorder shall make each campaign finance
    statement filed by a candidate available for public inspection and copying no later than
    one business day after the statement is filed as per (§10.3.208(8)(b) Utah Code, as
    amended).
 I.         1. If a candidate fails to file a campaign finance statement before the municipal
               general election by the deadline specified in Part BC.1.a, the Ccity Rrecorder
               shall inform the appropriate election official who:
                      a. shall:
                              (1) if practicable, remove the candidate's name from the ballot by
                                  blacking out the candidate's name before the ballots are
                                  delivered to voters; or
                              (2) if removing the candidate's name from the ballot is not
                                  practicable, inform the voters by any practicable method that
                                  the candidate has been disqualified and that votes cast for the
                                  candidate will not be counted; and
                     b. may not count any votes for that candidate.
                      c. A candidate for municipal office who is disqualified under H.1 shall
                         file with the municipal clerk or recorder a complete and accurate
                         campaign finance statement within 30 days after the day on which the
                         candidate is disqualified.
            2. Notwithstanding Part EH.1, a candidate who files a campaign finance
               statement seven days before a municipal general election is not disqualified if:
                      a. the statement details accurately and completely the information
                         required under Part BC.2, except for inadvertent omissions or
                         insignificant errors or inaccuracies; and
                     b. the omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are corrected in an amended
                         report or in the next scheduled report.
 J. A campaign finance statement required under this ordinancesection is considered filed
    if it is received in the Ccity Rrecorder's office by 5 p.m. on the date that is it due.
K. In addition to the other penalties established herein, any candidate who fails to comply
    with the requirements of this section is guilty of an infraction.
L.          1. A private party in interest may bring a civil action in district court to enforce
               the provisions of this section.
                            insignificant errors or inaccuracies; and
                         b. the omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are corrected in an amended
                            report or in the next scheduled report.
     J. A campaign finance statement required under this ordinancesection is considered filed
        if it is received in the Ccity Rrecorder's office by 5 p.m. on the date that is it due.
    K. In addition to the other penalties established herein, any candidate who fails to comply
        with the requirements of this section is guilty of an infraction.
    L.          1. A private party in interest may bring a civil action in district court to enforce
                   the provisions of this section.
                2. In a civil action under Part GJ.1, the court may award costs and attorney's fees
                   to the prevailing party.




       SECTION 13:           ADOPTION “2.14.120 Adoption Of State Code By
Reference” of the Vineyard Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                        ADO P TIO N

2.14.120 Adoption Of State Code By Reference(Added)

All provisions of the Utah State Election Code, as contained in § 20A-1-101 et seq., Utah
Code (1953, as amended), which pertain to municipal elections, are adopted and incorporated
by reference.


        SECTION 14:              REPEALER CLAUSE All ordinances or resolutions or parts
thereof, which are in conflict herewith, are hereby repealed.

        SECTION 15:               SEVERABILITY CLAUSE Should any part or provision of
this Ordinance be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the Ordinances a whole or any part thereof other than the part so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.

        SECTION 16:           EFFECTIVE DATE This Ordinance shall be in full force
and effect from August 11, 2021 and after the required approval and publication according to
law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE VINEYARD COUNCIL AUGUST 11, 2021.

                                 AYE   NAY        ABSENT         ABSTAIN
Mayor Julie Fullmer               X
John Earnest                      X
Tyce Flake                        X
Chris Judd                        X
Cristy Welsh                      X

P residing O fficer                      Attest




Julie Fullmer, Mayor, Vineyard           Pamela Spencer, City Recorder
                                         Vineyard
