                                      VINEYARD
                                   ORDINANCE 2021-12

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VINEYARD CITY, UTAH ADOPTING CHAPTER 2.30
  OF THE CITY’S MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO COMMITTEES AND
                         COMMISSION

      WHEREAS, the Vineyard City Council desires to adopt Chapter 2.30 of the
Municipal Code of the City relating to Committees and Commissions; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council finds it necessary to establish committees and
commissions within the City and to create regulations and guidelines to govern them; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the proposed Chapter will promote
the public interest and welfare;

       WHEREAS, a copy of the draft ordinance relating to committees and commissions
has been filed for use and examination by the public in the Office of the City Recorder prior to
consideration of the ordinance by the City Council;

        NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of Vineyard, in the State of Utah,
as follows:


       SECTION 1:           ADOPTION “2.30 Committees and Commissions” of the
Vineyard Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

2.30 Committees and Commissions(Added)



      SECTION 2:            ADOPTION “2.30.010 General Provisions” of the Vineyard
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

2.30.010 General Provisions(Added)

    A. INTENT AND PURPOSE.

             1. It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to encourage citizen involvement
                and obtain citizen advice and input by creating certain committees and
                commissions of the city as hereinafter discussed. Any and all committees and
                commissions established pursuant to this chapter shall be advisory bodies: they
            shall have no authority to bind the city or impose any conditions on the city or
            its citizens.
         2. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent or preclude the City Manager from
            establishing or creating executive committees, task forces, etc., to give advice
            and recommendations to the office of the City Manager.
B. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Chapter,
         1. Committee shall mean a body of people drawn from among members of the
            City Council or a commission, City employees, or members of the public, that
            is created by the City Council or commission and is entrusted with a specific
            job or task related to the work of the City Council or commission.
         2. Commission shall mean a body of people established by the City Council to
            perform certain advisory functions.
C. COMMITTEES. Committees shall be established by motion or resolution of the
   organizing council or commission. The size, scope, and duration of a committee shall
   be determined in the organizing motion or resolution. No committee shall include more
   than two members of any single council or commission such that the committee would
   include a quorum of that body.

D. COMMISSIONS. Commissions shall be established by ordinance. Unless otherwise
   specifically stated in a commission enabling ordinance, all commissions established
   pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be composed of five (5) members, one
   (1) alternate member, and one (1) ex-officio member, all of whom shall be appointed
   by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. Commission members
   and alternate members shall be residents of the City. Ex officio members may be
   employees of the City. The appointed members shall serve as the decision-making
   body for the commission. Each commission may seek nonvoting members/volunteers
   who desire to participate consistent with the purpose or mission of the respective
   commission.
         1. TERM, REMOVAL, AND VACANCIES. Unless otherwise specifically
            stated in a commission enabling ordinance, the following provisions shall
            govern the membership on any commission established pursuant to this
            chapter. The members shall serve for a term of four (4) years and shall not
            serve more than two (2) consecutive terms. Each term shall begin on February
            1 of the year of appointment and shall end on January 31 of the year when the
            appointment expires or until a successor is appointed. The terms of
            commission and committee members shall be staggered. A commission or
            committee member may be appointed for a term of less than three (3) years to
            provide for staggered terms or to complete a vacated, unexpired term. The
            mayor may remove any member of a commission without cause as determined
            solely by the discretion of the mayor and as approved by a majority of the city
            council. Any member of a commission so removed shall be entitled to a
            hearing before the city council if a hearing is requested in writing within seven
            (7) calendar days after the city council votes to remove the member. The
            purpose of the hearing is to allow the member being removed to be heard on
            the issue of removal.
            2. RULES AND PROCEDURES. Unless otherwise specifically stated in a
               commission enabling ordinance, each commission established pursuant to the
               provisions of this chapter shall formulate its own rules for the selection of a
               chairperson, time, place and manner of calling of meetings and other
               procedural matters; provided, that there shall be at least one (1) meeting of the
               commission each quarter. Each commission shall prepare written minutes of
               all meetings which shall be approved by each commission at subsequent
               meetings. The original approved minutes shall be maintained in the Office of
               the City Recorder. Commission meetings shall be held as open meetings in
               accordance with the requirements of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act,
               U.C.A. § 52-4-101 et seq.




      SECTION 3:            ADOPTION “2.30.020 Bicycle Commission” of the Vineyard
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                      ADO P TIO N

2.30.020 Bicycle Commission(Added)

    A. GENERAL. The Bicycle Advisory Committee created by resolution number 2020-05
       on May 13, 2020, is hereby established as the Bicycle Advisory Commission.
    B. PURPOSES AND DUTIES. The Bicycle Advisory Commission shall have the
       responsibilities provided in this section and such other duties as the Mayor may, from
       time to time, decide:
             1. Advise and provide input on policy, management, master plans, operations
                and maintenance, design standards, sustainability initiatives, development
                plans, rules, regulations, and ordinance relating to bicycling;
             2. To organize community programs and projects to provide information and
                education to the community on bicycling;

            3. To actively promote and participate in community events as it relates to
               promoting bicycle safety and education;
            4. To render an annual report of commission activities to the governing bodies of
               the City;
            5. To promote bicycling as a viable form of transportation;
            6. To provide a venue for public input and assistance as “eyes and ears” for
               issues pertaining to bicycling in the City;
            7. To maintain relationships and consult with bicycle advisory and advocacy
               groups within the region, including Bike Utah, the Bike Collective, BACs or
               equivalent of other jurisdictions, and other groups as appropriate;
            8. To work with City staff toward the goal of becoming a Diamond-level Bicycle
               Friendly Community.
        SECTION 4:              REPEALER CLAUSE All ordinances or resolutions or parts
thereof, which are in conflict herewith, are hereby repealed.

        SECTION 5:              SEVERABILITY CLAUSE If any section, part, or provision
of this Ordinance is held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not
affect any other portion of this Ordinance; and all sections, parts, and provisions of this
Ordinance shall be severable.

         SECTION 6:          EFFECTIVE DATE This Ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from March 10, 2021 and after the required approval and publication according to law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE VINEYARD COUNCIL SEPTEMBER 08, 2021.

                                 AYE   NAY        ABSENT         ABSTAIN
Mayor Julie Fullmer               X
John Earnest                      X
Tyce Flake                        X
Chris Judd                        X
Cristy Welsh                      X

P residing O fficer                      Attest




Julie Fullmer, Mayor, Vineyard           Pamela Spencer, City Recorder
                                         Vineyard
