                                      VINEYARD
                                   ORDINANCE 2021-07

    AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF VINEYARD UTAH AMENDING THE
     VINEYARD ZONING ORDINANCE SECTION 15.34.030 'ACCESSORY
  BUILDINGS'; PROVIDING A REPEALER CLAUSE; PROVIDING A SAVINGS
    AND SEVERABILITY CLAUSE, PROVIDING FOR PUBLICATION AND
                  PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

       WHEREAS, Title 10, Chapter 9a Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act of Utah Municipal Code, permits Vineyard to ensure the health, safety, and
welfare of the community through local land use planning and the adoption of land use
ordinances; and

       WHEREAS, Vineyard is authorized to amend the City's Zoning Ordinance pursuant
to Utah Municipal Code Section 10-9a-102(2); and

         WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on August 4, 2021, and
after fully considering public comment and staff recommendations recommended approval to
the Vineyard City Council; and

      WHEREAS, the Vineyard City Council, having reviewed the proposed text
amendments, held a public hearing on August 11, 2021; and

        WHEREAS, the Vineyard City Council having considered the recommendation of the
Planning Commission and submitted comments and testimony from the public, having
determined that it is in the best interest of the public and adopt the proposed text amendments
to the Zoning Ordinance.

       NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of the Vineyard, in the State of
Utah, as follows:


       SECTION 1:           AMENDMENT “15.34.030 Accessory Buildings” of the
Vineyard Zoning Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                     AMEN DMEN T

15.34.030 Accessory Buildings

     1. Accessory buildings and accessory uses may be authorized in association with a
        primary building or primary use.
     2. Accessory buildings and accessory uses shall only be authorized concurrently with, or
        following, the establishment of the primary building or primary use.
     3. Accessory buildings, excluding residential-detached garages,, excluding residential-
        detached garages, are only permitted within the rear yard and street side yards of
    corner lots.
 4. Accessory buildings located within the street side yard of a corner lot shall maintain a
    minimum setback distance of three (3') feet from the street side property line.
    Accessory buildings located within street-side yards of a corner lot shall be screened
    with a fence with a minimum height of 5' 6", from the street right-of-way on the front
    and sides and from neighboring properties adjoining the subject parcel on the rear
    property line.
 5. Accessory buildings, excluding residential-detached garages, located within the street
    side yard of a corner lot shall not exceed a height of ten (10') feet.
 6. Setbacks and building height standards for residential-detached garages located in side
    yards are found in Section 15.12.060 Dimensional Standards Table.
 7. No storm water runoff from any accessory building shall be allowed to run onto
    adjacent property.
 8. Accessory buildings shall meet all of the required dimensional standards of VZC
    15.12.060.
 9. Accessory buildings shall comply with the requirements of the adopted Building
    Code, as applicable.
10. No mobile home, travel trailer, boat, or similar recreational vehicle shall be used as an
    accessory building.
11. No shipping container, cargo container, shipping crate, box, trailer, or similar moveable
    piece of equipment or object shall be used as an accessory building.
12. No accessory buildings shall be rented, leased, or sold separately from the rental, lease,
    or sale of the primary building, except as allowed in VZC 15.34.060.
13. No accessory building shall be used as a permanent dwelling unit, except as allowed
    in VZC 15.34.060.
14. Accessory buildings used for the housing of domestic livestock or fowl shall comply
    with the requirements of VZC 15.34.120.
15. Swimming pools and spas are considered part of the primary building if they are
    within six (6') feet of the primary building; as such, they must adhere to the building
    setbacks of the primary building.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE VINEYARD COUNCIL AUGUST 11, 2021.

                                 AYE   NAY        ABSENT         ABSTAIN
Mayor Julie Fullmer               X
John Earnest                      X
Tyce Flake                        X
Chris Judd                        X
Cristy Welsh                      X

P residing O fficer                      Attest




Julie Fullmer, Mayor, Vineyard           Pamela Spencer, City Recorder
                                         Vineyard
