                                      VINEYARD
                                   ORDINANCE 2021-11

   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF VINEYARD UTAH AMENDING THE
 VINEYARD SUBDIVISION CODE SECTION 14.06.020 'REQUIREMENTS FOR
   PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS' AND SECTION 14.08.030
'REQUIREMENTS FOR FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS'; PROVIDING A
REPEALER CLAUSE; PROVIDING A SAVINGS AND SEVERABILITY CLAUSE,
  PROVIDING FOR PUBLICATION AND PROVIDING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.

       WHEREAS, Title 10, Chapter 9a Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act of Utah Municipal Code, permits Vineyard to ensure the health, safety, and
welfare of the community through local land use planning and the adoption of land use
ordinances; and

      WHEREAS, Vineyard is authorized to amend the City's Subdivision Code pursuant to
Utah Municipal Code Section 10-9a-102(2); and

         WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on August 18, 2021, and
after fully considering public comment and staff recommendations recommended approval to
the Vineyard City Council; and

      WHEREAS, the Vineyard City Council, having reviewed the proposed text
amendments, held a public hearing on August 25, 2021; and

        WHEREAS, the Vineyard City Council having considered the recommendation of the
Planning Commission and submitted comments and testimony from the public, having
determined that it is in the best interest of the public and adopt the proposed text amendments
to the Subdivision Code

        NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of the Vineyard, in the State of
Utah, as follows: A: Proposed amendments B: Any plat submitted by October 1, 2021 may
have either the original signature block or the new signature block. All plats submitted after
October 1, 2021 shall have the new signature block.


       SECTION 1:             AMENDMENT “14.06.020 Requirements For Preliminary
Subdivision Applications” of the Vineyard Subdivision Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                     AMEN DMEN T

14.06.020 Requirements For Preliminary Subdivision Applications

All Preliminary Subdivision Applications, filed with the Town, shall provide the following
application information:
1. Application Form. A Preliminary Subdivision Application Form completed and signed
   by the owner(s) of the Subject Property, as identified on the property assessment rolls
   of Utah County, or authorized agent of the owner(s), of the lands proposed to be
   subdivided. If the Application Form is signed by an agent of the owner(s), the
   Application Form shall be accompanied by an affidavit identifying the agent as being
   duly authorized to represent the owner(s) in all matters related to the Preliminary
   Subdivision Application. All persons with a fee interest in the Subject Property shall
   be required to join in and sign the Preliminary Subdivision Application.
2. Preliminary Subdivision Application Fees. The Preliminary Subdivision Application
   shall include the payment of all Preliminary Subdivision Application fees, as
   established by the Council, and any total amount, or deposit amount, required to
   provide the services of the Town Engineer, as provided and required by VSC
   14.06.030.
3. Legal Description. A complete and accurate legal description of the entire Subject
   Property proposed to be subdivided.
4. Preliminary Subdivision Plat. A Preliminary Subdivision Plat shall be prepared by a
   licensed land surveyor, or engineer, as required by the Act, and drawn at a scale of not
   less than one inch equals one-hundred feet (1" = 100'), or as recommended by the
   Town Engineer. The Preliminary Subdivision Plat shall be prepared in pen and all
   sheets shall be numbered. A minimum of fifteen (15) 11 inch x 17 inch size and two
   (2) 24 inch x 36 inch size paper copies shall be included and accompany the
   Preliminary Subdivision Application Form. A digital copy of the Preliminary Plat, in a
   format acceptable to the Town’s Geographic Information System standards shall also
   be provided. The Preliminary Subdivision Plat shall show the following:
          a. A vicinity map, at a minimum scale of one inch (1”) = one-thousand feet
             (1000'), clearly identifying the boundaries of the entire Subject Property,
             accesses, adjoining subdivision outlines and names, as applicable, and other
             relevant information within one-half (1/2) mile of the boundary of the Subject
             Property. The location of the Subject Property with respect to surrounding
             property and roads, and the names of all adjoining property owners of record
             shall be shown.
         b. A map of the boundary of the Subject Property; accurate in scale, dimension
             and bearing, and giving the location of and ties to the nearest survey
             monument. The map shall have an error of closure of not greater than
             1:10,000. Survey tie to the State grid or other permanent marker established
             by the Utah County surveyor is required, if practical.
          c. Located at the top-center and lower right-hand corner of the Preliminary Plat,
             the proposed name of the subdivision that is distinct from any other plat
             already recorded in the Utah County Recorder’s Office. The basis of bearings
             used, graphic and written scale, true north point, township, range, section,
             quarter section, block, and lot number, and total area of the Subject Property
             shall be shown.
         d. Proposed lot and street layout. All existing and proposed street names shall be
             shown.
          e. The lot or unit reference, block or building reference, street or site address, the
             street name or coordinate address, boundaries, course, and dimensions,
             acreage or square footage for all parcels, units, or lots, and length and width of
             the blocks and lots proposed to be created. All parcels, units, lots, or blocks
             created shall be numbered consecutively.
          f. The boundaries, course, and dimensions of all of the parcels of ground
             divided, by their boundaries, course, and extent, whether the owner proposes
             that any parcel of ground is intended to be used as a street or for any other
             public use, and whether any such area is reserved or proposed for dedication
             for a public purpose.
         g. The location of any common space or open space areas, including the location
             of all property proposed to be set aside for public or private reservation, with
             the
             designation of the purpose of such set asides, and conditions, if any, of the
             dedication or reservation.
         h. All existing and proposed right-of-way and easement grants of record for
             underground utility facilities, as defined by U.C.A. 54-8a-2, and for all other
             utility facilities within the proposed rights-of-way.
          i. Each proposed lot shall identify required setback lines identifying the required
             front, side, and rear yard areas, as required by the Zoning District in which the
             Subject Property is located.
          j. A title block, placed on the lower right hand corner of the Plat showing:
                      i. Proposed name or designation of the subdivision that is distinct from
                         any other plat already recorded in the Office of the Utah County
                         Recorder.
                     ii. Name and address of the owner of record and the name, address and
                         license number of the licensed surveyor or engineer responsible for
                         preparing the Preliminary Plat.
                    iii. Date of preparation of the Preliminary Plat, and all revision dates, as
                         applicable.
                    iv. Signature blocks for the dated signatures of the City Planner, City
                         Engineer, City Manager (representing the will of the legislative body),
                         Recorder attests city signatures.Town Planner, Planning Commission
                         Chair, Mayor, and Town Engineer.
5. Required Subject Property Information. The following information is required and
   shall be provided on separate sheets at the same scale as the Preliminary Subdivision
   Plat:
         a. The identification of known natural features including, but not limited to,
             jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the United States Army Corps of
             Engineers, flood plains and flood channels as identified by a Federal or State
             Agency, all water courses, areas where ground water is located within three
             (3) feet of the ground surface, water bodies, marshy or swampy areas,
             drainage ways, and any other natural features, as required by the Town
             Planner or Town Engineer for the Subject Property, including the total area of
             each.
         b. All trees over six (6) inches in diameter, measured four (4) feet above the
             ground. In cases of heavily wooded areas, indication of the outline of wooded
             area and location of trees which are to remain.
         c. Existing site contours, at intervals of no greater than two (2) feet, overlaid with
            the proposed subdivision layout. Elevations shall be based on national
            Geodetic Survey sea level data. In cases of predominately-level topography
            one (1) foot interval contours may be required.

          d. The location of any known man-made features on, or contiguous to the
              Subject Property, including existing platted lots, all utility easements, railroads,
              power lines and power poles, telephone and other telecommunication lines
              and facilities, bridges, culverts, drainage channels, road rights-of-way and
              easements, field drains, and well or spring protection areas. Indicate which
              features will remain and which will be removed.
          e. The location and dimensions of all existing buildings, fence lines and property
              lines, overlaid with the proposed subdivision layout.
          f. The layout of existing power lines including the source and connection to the
              existing power supply.
          g. All existing and proposed roadway locations and dimensions, with cross
              sections and profiles of all new streets and roads, proposed to be dedicated to
              the Town, showing the grades of all proposed streets and roads, including
              direction of slope, and all proposed cuts and fills exceeding three (3) feet. The
              proposed radius of all centerline curves shall be shown.
          h. The location and size of existing and proposed culinary water and sanitary
              sewer lines and the location of all wells and springs, if any, and the location of
              all secondary water locations, as required by the Town Engineer, as
              applicable, overlaid with the proposed subdivision layout plan. Indicate the
              direction of slope for all gravity pipelines.
           i. Proposed storm drainage and flood control systems including proposed pipe
              sizes, inlets, detention areas, and drainage arrows.
           j. The location of all existing and proposed curb, gutter and sidewalk within and
              adjacent to the proposed development with an indication of grades and flow
              arrows showing direction of storm water surface flows.
          k. Existing land drain locations and proposed new land drainage system
              including proposed pipe sizes, inlets, outlets, and drainage arrows.
           l. The location of all existing and proposed fire hydrants, including the sizes of
              all existing and proposed water lines serving all fire hydrants.
         m. The location of all existing and proposed streetlights identifying the location,
              type, height, and light output of all existing and proposed street lights.
          n. The location of all existing and proposed street trees and other landscape
              plantings identifying the location and type of all street trees, shrubs and other
              landscape materials and plantings.
6. Geotechnical Report. A report providing geologic maps, soil type maps, and tables of
   soil type interpretations based on the national Cooperative Soils Survey,
   United States Department of Agriculture, and Soil Conservation Service. Other
   investigation reports regarding the suitability of the Subject Property for the proposed
   subdivision shall be provided. The location and height of all subsurface ground water
   areas shall be shown.
7. Preliminary Grading and Drainage Plan. For all Subject Property of one (1) acre or
    larger, a preliminary grading plan shall be provided indicated by solid-line contours,
    using two (2) foot intervals, imposed on dashed line contours, also using two (2) foot)
    intervals, of the existing topography for the entire Subject Property. For Subject
    Properties that have predominately-level, topography one (1) foot contour intervals
    may be required by the Town Engineer.
 8. Preliminary Erosion Control Plan. When required by the Town Engineer, a
    Preliminary Erosion Control Plan shall be provided and included with the Preliminary
    Subdivision Application.
 9. Preliminary Easement Plan. A preliminary easement plan, identifying the location,
    size, and use of all existing and proposed easements.
10. Title Report. A Title Report for the Subject Property, provided by a Title Company and
    no older than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the filing of the Preliminary
    Subdivision Application.
11. Tax Clearance. A tax clearance from the Utah County Treasurer shall be provided as
    part of the Preliminary Subdivision Application.
12. Evidence of Availability of Necessary Services. The following information is required
    to be presented, necessary to establish the availability of required services to the
    Subject Property.
          a. Culinary Water Requirements. As required and provided by the Act, the
             Vineyard Town Engineer is hereby designated as the Culinary Water
             Authority for the Town. It shall be the responsibility of the Applicant to
             provide all information and materials, as required by the Town Engineer,
             necessary to review and provide a written approval of the feasibility of the
             proposed culinary water system and culinary water sources.
          b. Sanitary Sewer Requirements. As required and provided by the Act, the
             Vineyard Town Engineer is hereby designated as the Sanitary Sewer
             Authority for the Town. It shall be the responsibility of the Applicant to
             provide information and materials, as required by the Town Engineer,
             necessary to review and provide a written approval of the feasibility of the
             proposed sanitary sewer system.
          c. Subdivision Roads and Streets. The Preliminary Subdivision Application shall
             identify the proposed road and street layout. Proposed subdivision streets shall
             make provision for the continuation of existing streets. All subdivision streets
             shall be designed as required by the Vineyard Town Development Standards
             and Design Specifications. If the proposed subdivision will be accessed
             directly from a State Highway, an appropriate access permit approval, as
             required by the State of Utah Department of Transportation, shall be provided
             with the application materials. If the subdivision will be accessed directly from
             a County Road, authorization from Utah County to allow subdivision access
             from a County Road shall be provided with the application materials. It shall
             be the responsibility of the Applicant to provide information and materials, as
             required by the Town Engineer, necessary to review and provide a written
             recommendation of the proposed road and street system.
          d. Storm Drainage and Flood Control Facilities. The Preliminary Subdivision
             Application shall identify the storm drainage and flood control system. The
             proposed subdivision storm drainage and flood control system shall make
                 provision for the continuation of existing facilities. All subdivision storm
                 drainage and flood control system facilities shall be designed as required by
                 the Vineyard Town Development Standards and Design Specifications. It
                 shall be the responsibility of the Applicant to provide information and
                 materials, as required by the Town Engineer, necessary to review and provide
                 a written recommendation of the proposed storm drainage and flood control
                 system.
               e. Fire Protection, Suppression, and Access Facilities. The Preliminary
                  Subdivision Application shall identify the proposed fire protection, fire
                  suppression, and fire access facilities and shall make provisions for the
                  continuation of existing facilities, as required by the Commission and Council.
                  All subdivision fire protection, fire suppression, and fire access facilities shall
                  be designed as required by the Vineyard Town Development Standards and
                  Design Specifications. The Vineyard Town Fire Marshall is hereby designated
                  as the Fire Protection Authority, and shall review all proposed fire protection,
                  fire suppression, and fire access facilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
                  Applicant to provide information and materials, as required by the Town Fire
                  Marshall, necessary to review and provide a written approval of the feasibility
                  of the proposed fire protection, suppression, and access facilities.
    13. Additional Information and Materials. When the Town Staff, Commission, or Council
        deem necessary, the Applicant may be required to provide other information, materials,
        letters of feasibility, conduct studies, and provide other evidence indicating the
        suitability of the Subject Property for the proposed subdivision, including, but not
        limited to, compliance with the Town’s Transportation Plan(s) including access
        management plans, adequacy of utilities, public safety and fire protection, ground
        water protection, plant cover maintenance, geologic or flood hazard, erosion control,
        wildlife habitat, and any other infrastructure, physical, environmental, or cultural
        matters.
    14. Phasing Schedule. If the Applicant is proposing phasing the development into two or
        more sections for purposes of recording final plats, such information must be included
        as a part of the Preliminary Subdivision Application submission.
               a. A phasing plan describing each phase, the approximate size in area of each
                  phase, the order of phasing and the projected time for recording and
                  development of each phase shall be submitted.
               b. The requirements of the Concept Plan as described in VSC 14.04.010 shall be
                  submitted for all phases not being proposed for preliminary approval.
               c. The Planning Commission may impose conditions upon the filing of each
                  section proposed as may be necessary to ensure orderly development of the
                  overall subdivision and the area in which it is located.
               d. Application for subsequent phases must be submitted within one year of
                  recordation of the previous phase.



       SECTION 2:             AMENDMENT “14.08.030 Requirements For Final
Subdivision Applications” of the Vineyard Subdivision Code is hereby amended as follows:
                                      AMEN DMEN T

14.08.030 Requirements For Final Subdivision Applications

All Final Subdivision Applications, filed in the Office of the Town Planner, shall provide the
following information:

     1. Application Form. A Final Subdivision Application Form completed and signed by the
        owner(s) of the Subject Property, as identified on the property assessment rolls of Utah
        County, or authorized agent of the owner(s), of the Subject Property. If the Application
        Form is signed by an agent of the owner(s), the Application Form shall be
        accompanied by an affidavit identifying the agent as being duly authorized to represent
        the owner(s) in all matters related to the Final Subdivision Application.

        All persons with a fee interest in the Subject Property shall be required to join in and
        sign the Final Subdivision Application.

     2. Final Subdivision Application Fees. The Final Subdivision Application shall include
        the payment of all Final Subdivision Application fees, as established the Council, and
        any total amount, or deposit amount, required to provide the services of the Town
        Engineer, as provided and required by this section, or engineering inspection services.
     3. Legal Description. A complete and accurate legal description for the entire Subject
        Property.
     4. Final Subdivision Plat. A Final Subdivision Plat shall be prepared by a licensed land
        surveyor, as required by the Act, and drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals
        one-hundred feet (1" = 100'), or as recommended by the Town Engineer, and in a
        form acceptable to the Utah County Recorder for recordation. The Final Subdivision
        Plat shall be prepared in pen on mylar and all sheets shall be numbered. All required
        certificates shall appear on a single sheet (along with the index and vicinity maps).
        One (1) original mylar copy of the Final Plat and two (2) original copies of the Final
        Subdivision Design and Construction Plans shall be included with the Final
        Subdivision Application and a minimum of ten (10) 11inch x 17 inch size and two (2)
        24 inch x 36 inch paper copies shall be included and accompany the Final Subdivision
        Application Form. A digital copy of the Final Subdivision Plat, in a format acceptable
        to the Town’s Geographic Information System standards by the Town Engineer, shall
        also be provided. The Final Subdivision Plat shall contain the same information as
        required by VSC 14.06.020, and shall include any revisions or additions, as required
        by the Commission or Council, as part of the Preliminary Subdivision Application
        approval, as applicable. The Final Subdivision Plat shall show the following:
               a. Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, including proposed restrictive
                  covenants, signed by all owners of interest, and bearing the acknowledgment
                  of a public notary, and all other restrictions as required by the Commission or
                  Council, as applicable.
               b. A survey of the perimeter of the Subject Property and all parcels, units, lots
                  and blocks created, accurate in scale, dimension and bearing, and giving the
                  location of and ties to the nearest survey monument. Bearings shall be shown
                  to the nearest second; lengths to the nearest hundredth (100th) foot; areas to
   of a public notary, and all other restrictions as required by the Commission or
   Council, as applicable.
b. A survey of the perimeter of the Subject Property and all parcels, units, lots
   and blocks created, accurate in scale, dimension and bearing, and giving the
   location of and ties to the nearest survey monument. Bearings shall be shown
   to the nearest second; lengths to the nearest hundredth (100th) foot; areas to
   the nearest hundredth (100th) acre. All parcels, units, lots, or blocks created
   shall be numbered consecutively. All lands within the boundaries of the Final
    Subdivision Plat shall be accounted for as lots, roads, streets, alleys,
    walkways, or as excepted parcels. Excepted parcels shall be marked as “Not
    Included in the Subdivision” and the boundary of such parcels indicated by
    distances and bearings.
c. Endorsement of every person having a security interest in the Subject Property
    subordinating their liens to all covenants, servitudes, and easements imposed
    on the property.
d. The location of all monuments erected, corners, and other points established in
    the field. The material of which the monuments, corners, or other points are
    made shall be noted.
e. All existing and proposed street names shall be shown and the street address
    and coordinate address of all parcels, units, or lots, created shall be shown, as
    required by the addressing system of the Town.
f. Every existing right-of-way and easement grant of record for underground
    facilities, as defined by U.C.A. 54-8a-2, and for all other utility facilities, and
    all proposed rights-of-way and easement grants of record for utility facilities.
g. The location of any common space or open space areas including the location
    of all property set aside for public or private reservation, with the designation
    of the purpose of such set asides, and conditions, if any, of the dedication or
    reservation.
h. The name and address of the licensed surveyor responsible for preparing the
    Final Subdivision Plat.
            i. The surveyor making the Final Plat shall certify that the surveyor:
                   (1) Holds a License in accordance with Title 58, Chapter 22,
                       Professional Engineers and Professional Land Surveyors
                       Licensing Act;
                   (2) Has completed a survey of the property described on the
                       Final Plat in accordance with U.C.A. 17-23-17 and has
                       verified all measurements; and
                   (3) Has placed monuments as represented on the Final Plat.
 i. Located at the top-center and lower-right of the Final Subdivision Plat, the
    name of the subdivision, as approved by the Utah County Recorder’s Office.
    The basis of bearings used, graphic and written scale, true north point,
    township, range, section, and quarter section, block, lot number, and total are
    of the Subject Property shall be shown.
 j. A title block, placed on the lower right hand corner of the Final Subdivision
    Plat showing:
            i. The Approved name of the subdivision, as approved by the Utah
               County Recorder.
           ii. Date of preparation of the Final Subdivision Plat.
        iii. Signature blocks for the dated signatures of the City Planner, City
             Engineer, City Manager (representing the will of the legislative body),
             Recorder attests city signatures.
             Planning Commission Chair, Mayor, Town Engineer, Town Fire
                     County Recorder.
                 ii. Date of preparation of the Final Subdivision Plat.
                 iii. Signature blocks for the dated signatures of the City Planner, City
                      Engineer, City Manager (representing the will of the legislative body),
                      Recorder attests city signatures.
                      Planning Commission Chair, Mayor, Town Engineer, Town Fire
                      Marshall, and Town Attorney.


5. Other Required Final Subdivision Application Information and Materials. The
   following information is required and shall be provided on separate sheets at the same
   scale as the Final Subdivision Plat:
          a. All documents establishing any required agreements, guarantees, or any bonds
             and the payment of any required guarantees or bonds.
          b. Owner’s Dedications. The owner's certificate of dedication(s) including a
             legal description of the Subject Property boundaries and the dedication of all
             public ways or spaces. This certificate shall be signed, dated, and notarized.
             The owner's certificate shall include a reference to any covenants that may be
             declared and blanks where the Utah County Recorder may enter the book and
             page number of their recording.
          c. Required Federal, State, and Local Permits. Whenever a Federal, State, or
             Local department or agency has authority or jurisdiction, all necessary
             approvals, permits, and licenses, as required, shall be provided by such
             Federal, State, and Local departments and agencies and shall be required and
             included with the Final Subdivision Application.
          d. Covenants and Restrictions. Copies of all protective covenants, conditions and
             restriction (CC&R’s), trust agreements, home owner’s association articles and
             bylaws, and all other required documents, including those required by the
             Commission or Council, as applicable, governing the future use of property,
             infrastructure, utility and service systems, re-subdivision, and other provisions
             required to maintain the integrity of the subdivision.
6. Final Construction Drawings. Final design and construction drawings for all proposed,
   or required public improvements, prepared by a licensed civil engineer, and as required
   by the “Vineyard Town Development Standards and Design Specifications” and the
   Town Engineer, including, but not limited to, all culinary water facilities, all sanitary
   sewer facilities, all storm drainage and flood control facilities, bridges and culverts, the
   profiles and cross sections of all proposed roads and streets, all secondary water
   facilities, all fire hydrants and fire protection and suppression facilities, all electrical
   power facilities, all telecommunications facilities, all street lights, all street trees and
   other landscape plantings identifying the location and type of all street trees, shrubs
   and other landscape materials and plantings, and all other provided and required public
   facilities and improvements.
7. Improvement Construction Costs. Estimated constriction costs of all proposed, or
   required public improvements, prepared by a licensed civil engineer, and as required
   by the “Vineyard Town Development Standards and Design Specifications” and the
   Town Engineer.
8. Final Grading and Drainage Plan. For all Subject Property of one (1) acre or larger a
   Final Grading Plan shall be provided indicated by solid-line contours, using two (2)
   foot intervals, imposed on dashed line contours, also using two (2) foot intervals, of
   the existing topography for the entire Subject Property. For Subject Properties that
   have predominately-level topography one (1) foot contour intervals may be required
   by the Town Engineer.
    Final Grading Plan shall be provided indicated by solid-line contours, using two (2)
    foot intervals, imposed on dashed line contours, also using two (2) foot intervals, of
    the existing topography for the entire Subject Property. For Subject Properties that
    have predominately-level topography one (1) foot contour intervals may be required
    by the Town Engineer.

 9. Final Erosion Control Plan. When required by the Town Engineer, a Final Erosion
    Control Plan shall be provided and included with the Final Subdivision Application.
10. Title Report. If the Final Subdivision Application is filed in the Office of the Town
    Planner after one hundred eighty (180) calendar days from the date the Preliminary
    Subdivision Application is approved, or if any changes or corrections have been made
    to the Title of the Subject Property since the Preliminary Subdivision Application was
    filed in the Office of the Town Planner, a Title Report for the Subject Property,
    provided by a Title Company, no older than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of
    filing the Final Subdivision Application shall be provided.
11. Tax Clearance. A tax clearance from the Utah County Treasurer shall be provided as
    part of the Final Subdivision Application. The Council may withhold an otherwise
    valid Final Plat approval until the owner of the Subject Property provides the Council
    with a tax clearance indicating that all taxes, interest, and penalties owing on the
    Subject Property have been paid.
12. Additional information and Materials. When the town staff, commission, or council
    deem necessary, the applicant may be required to provide other information, materials,
    letters of feasibility, conduct studies, and provide other evidence indicating the
    suitability of the subject property for the proposed subdivision, including, but not
    limited to, compliance with the town’s transportation plan(s) including access
    management plans, adequacy of utilities, public safety and fire protection, ground
    water protection, plant cover maintenance, geologic or flood hazard, erosion control,
    wildlife habitat, and any other infrastructure, physical, environmental, or cultural
    maters.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE VINEYARD COUNCIL AUGUST 25, 2021.

                                 AYE   NAY        ABSENT         ABSTAIN
Mayor Julie Fullmer               X
John Earnest                      X
Tyce Flake                        X
Chris Judd                        X
Cristy Welsh                      X

P residing O fficer                      Attest




Julie Fullmer, Mayor, Vineyard           Pamela Spencer, City Recorder
                                         Vineyard
