                                      VINEYARD
                                   ORDINANCE 2021-09

      AN ORDINANCE OF THE VINEYARD CITY COUNCIL AMENDING
     MUNICIPAL CODE 2.08.020 CITY MANAGER; POWERS AND DUTIES;
                             OBLIGATIONS

        WHEREAS, The Vineyard City Council under the authority of Utah Code 10-3b-403
created the city manager position and provided for the powers and duties of that position; and

          WHEREAS, The City Council now desires to amend the city managers powers and
duties.

       NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of the Vineyard, in the State of
Utah, as follows:


       SECTION 1:           AMENDMENT “2.08.020 Powers; Duties; Obligations” of the
Vineyard Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

2.08.020 Powers; Duties; Obligations

     A. City Manager Duties: Pursuant to the policies and programs established by the
        governing body, and under the direction and oversight of the governing body and
        except as otherwise set forth by the governing body in ordinance, resolution, motion,
        or this code, the city manager shall:
              1. Be responsible for managing the internal affairs of the city; develop,
                 recommend and implement city policies, practices, rules, regulations and
                 procedures; report to the governing body; advise the governing body
                 regarding policy options and implementation procedures; carry out legislative
                 directives and decisions; be responsible for contracts administration.
              2. Establish and maintain effective working relationships with the governing
                 body, the city attorney, management employees, citizen committees, special
                 interest groups, employees, press, contractors, public vendors and
                 representatives from other city, county, special district, state and federal
                 agencies; issue public statements to the press and respond to questions from
                 the press related to city management, policies, procedures and administrative
                 decisions and is consistent with the majority opinion or direction of the
                 governing body.
              3. Consistent with the direction of the governing body, be responsible for the full
                 and effective use of city personnel by establishing, in consultation with the
                 city attorney, department directors, division heads or other management
                 employees, overall department objectives, priorities and standards consistent
                 with the goals, direction, and objectives of the governing body; serve as a
    facilitator in the achievement by city divisions of governing body goals and in
    coordinating with management employees for effective implementation of city
    service levels, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations and directives;
    exercise managerial control to ensure that the city government and its
    respective departments function in the most efficient and effective manner.
 4. Be the budget officer of the City and finance director of the City under the
    uniform fiscal procedures act for Utah Cities; plan, organize and supervise city
    financial operations and keep the governing body at all times advised as to the
    financial condition and needs of the city; prepare and deliver financial reports
    to the governing body as needed; supervise the preparation and administration
    of the city budget under the direction of the governing body; ensure that all
    executive procedures and activities are in compliance with the uniform fiscal
    procedures act for Utah cities and Utah money management act as passed and
    amended by the state legislature.
 5. Represent the city at various meetings or other functions and respond to
    requests or inquiries about city policies, rules, ordinances, regulations,
    resolutions or services rendered by the city government.
 6. Enforce all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and policies of the
    city. Assure that all franchises, leases, permits, licenses, contracts and
    privileges granted by the city are fully performed and observed.
 7. Recommend and prepare for consideration by the governing body and
    advisory committees long range strategic plans and programs to provide for
    the health, safety, and welfare of the current and future inhabitants of the city;
    furnish reports to the governing body as requested.
 8. Except as otherwise provided, be responsible for the overall personnel
    management function; implement city personnel ordinances, rules, and
    regulations that have been adopted, approved, or revised by the governing
    body; coordinate personnel ordinances and rules and regulations adopted by
    the governing body; coordinate personnel functions with management
    employees such as recruitment, selection, and appointment; have authority to
    appoint and remove any employees of the city, except the city recorder, the
    city treasurer, and the city attorney who shall be appointed, removed, or
    terminated by majority vote of the governing body, serve as a step in the
    appeals process available to employees with grievances; monitor personnel
    actions, promotion, discipline, demotion, separation and reclassification;
    coordinate personnel decisions with department directors; coordinate activities
    of individuals rendering professional services under contract with the city.
           a. The hiring process for department director will include panel
              interviews with City Council.
 9. Investigate into the affairs of the city and any department or division thereof,
    and any contract for the proper performance of any obligations of the city.
10. Create all necessary departments as approved by the governing body. Create
    all necessary divisions, sections, and offices necessary for the government of
    the city; prepare recommendations for the governing body regarding the
    addition, deletion or reduction in municipal services.
11. Attend and participate in all meetings of the governing body unless otherwise
           excluded by the governing body in an executive session meeting, but shall not
           have a right to vote in said meetings.

       12. Approve and sign commercial and residential subdivision plats on behalf of
           the city.
       13. Perform all other duties, obligations, and exercise the powers set forth by
           ordinance, resolution, regulation, or directive imposed by the governing body.
       14. Hold a closed session with City Council prior to termination of any city
           department director. Nothing herein shall limit the city manager's ability to
           institute temporary employee suspensions or temporary administrative leave of
           city employees.
B. Department Cooperation: It shall be the duty of all subordinate employees to cooperate
   with the city manager in administering the affairs of the city efficiently, economically
   and harmoniously.
C. Planning and Land Use: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city manager shall
   exercise no authority over the planning commission or an appeal and variance hearing
   board or officer.
D. Performance Evaluation: The governing body shall evaluate, at least annually, the
   performance of the city manager.
E. Powers of The Mayor Not Delegated: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
   delegate to the city manager the legislative and judicial powers of the mayor, the
   mayor's position as chief executive officer of the city pursuant to Utah code section
   10-3b-104(1)(a), chairperson of the governing body, or any ex officio position which
   the mayor shall hold.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE VINEYARD COUNCIL AUGUST 11, 2021.

                                 AYE   NAY        ABSENT         ABSTAIN
Mayor Julie Fullmer               X
John Earnest                      X
Tyce Flake                        X
Chris Judd                        X
Cristy Welsh                      X

P residing O fficer                      Attest




Julie Fullmer, Mayor, Vineyard           Pamela Spencer, City Recorder
                                         Vineyard
