                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                      www.pwpds.slco.org




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                         KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                     Monday, April 8, 2019 5:30 p.m.

                         **Meeting minutes were approved on June 10, 2019**
Approximate meeting length: 42 minutes                                    *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 3                                         found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                          County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Robertson

                                                ATTENDANCE
                                Public     Business                Commissioners and Staff:
        Commissioners                                    Absent
                                 Mtg         Mtg
        Jeff Robertson            x           x                                                                  Public      Business
                                                                                 Planning Staff / DA
          Joy Nelson              x           x                                                                   Mtg          Mtg
        Jerry Wellman             x           x                                     Wendy Gurr                      x             x
         Bruce Walton             x           x                                   Curtis Woodward                   x             x
           Joe Hatch              x           x




                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 5:30 p.m.

    1) Approval of Minutes from the March 11, 2019 meeting.
        Motion: To approve minutes from the March 11, 2019 meeting as presented.
              Motion by: Commissioner Wellman
              2nd by: Commissioner Walton
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor

    2) Good Landlord/Fit Premises Ordinance introduction and discussion
Commissioners and Staff discussed where a room is rented and the responsibility of the owner, with access
to the bathroom and kitchen, accessory buildings and dwellings, parking and maintaining sufficient stalls
with off-street parking, renting to family members, animals or hazards, fees and taxes for more than one
owner on the home, financial impacts on the landlord, how do you start up and find these people, adding
language for registering rentals, Airbnb, high-density kitchenette, emergency egress, length of time for a
repairman.

    3) Other Business Items (as needed)
       No other business items to discuss.

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – April 8, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                             Page 1 of 2
                                             PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                        Hearings began at – 5:57 p.m.

30882 – (Continued from March 11, 2019) - An application to adopt a new chapter to the Kearns Metro
Zoning Ordinance to create two “public facilities” zones, the PF and PI zones, as zoning in which public
uses like parks, schools, recreation centers, civic buildings, churches, utility buildings, and similar uses are
allowed. Planner: Curtis Woodward

Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Zoning Administrator Curtis Woodward provided
an analysis of the new zoning chapter.

Commissioner Robertson asked if they want to maintain an urban feel by making sure they don’t take more
than 40%. Commissioner Wellman asked if anything else will be developed. Mr. Woodward said a vacant
police station and added to the mix, but not a lot out there, a lot of utilities plan, as new facilities come
along adjust the zoning map and include them. Commissioner Robertson said in 50 years may look different
and single-family neighborhoods will not maintain that character forever. Commissioner Hatch said a
developer come in and buy older homes and want to put up townhomes but would involve zone change. Mr.
Woodward said the schools and closures and Kearns, and the Mayor and council doesn’t want to block
use, but to zone public use, plan it out and not a given and forces a conversation.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Kearns Community Council
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
Comments: Mr. Snow said the Community Council provides a favorable recommendation.

Commissioner Wellman motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Walton seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend file #30882 to the Kearns Metro Township Council for approval as presented.
      Motion by: Commissioner Wellman
      2nd by: Commissioner Walton
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 6:12 p.m.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – April 8, 2019 – Meeting Summary                         Page 2 of 2
