                                      Vineyard
Who is filling out this report?
Anthony Fletcher
Planner
anthonyf@vineyardutah.gov
385-329-1730

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/municipalcodeonline.com-
new/vineyard/plan/documents/1661797626_ORD%202019-
04%20updated%20Vineyard%20General%20Plan%20(compressed).pdf


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://vineyard.municipalcodeonline.com/book?type=plan#name=9_Moderate_Income_And_H
ousing

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                         1119
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/be4ef01c46cc4bf1b6bbf20061f0ab0d/

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
6/11/2025

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
1026




                                                                                               1120
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
1200+

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
0 - The earlier counts provided were carefully put together through an audit of what we are
expecting to have developed within Vineyard due to land uses and development projections

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
186


Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
Resident appetite for additional housing is low. Transportations infrastructure and service
delivery needs to keep up with the fast ongoing growth.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
Utah City (Downtown Vineyard) does not have established limits on building height or residential
density, so any unit count across the 700+ acre site is only a rough estimate. As of now,
building permits have been reviewed or issued for 1573 units in the downtown area.


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of business licenses or permits to rent issued




                                                                                              1121
Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
145
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
52 (basement permits issued, not all of which will be used as an ADU)

Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
32



Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
0




                                                                                       1122
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
L
V
F
E
H
Q

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
L
Master plan studies for water, sewer, transportation, and stormwater systems are currently
underway. These plans include an analysis of how impact fees could be reduced, waived, or
eliminated for future moderate income housing developments. Various consultants have begun
drafting recommendations for the City. In May 2025, the Vineyard Planning Commission and
City Council held work sessions to review and discuss the progress. Adoption of these master
plans and related policy recommendations is expected in late 2025.In April 2025, staff begun
work on Public Safety Master Plan and Impact fee.

V
This year, we received the raw data from our consultant to make edits with. We have been
working with staff, council, and land owners on any requested changes to the document before
we receive approval from the city council and SAP policy committee led by Mountainland
Association of Governments (MAG)

F
In this past year Vineyard city reviewed site plans and building permits for 950 residential units
within the Utah City development




                                                                                                1123
E
Over the past year, the City has made notable progress in supporting Accessory Dwelling Units
(ADUs) as a flexible and valuable housing option. Building on prior efforts, staff has actively
worked to expand how ADUs can be permitted throughout Vineyard. This includes
benchmarking potential strategies for allowing additional ADU types—such as Prefabricated
housing types intended for long-term placement that adhere to a permanent foundation and the
design is consistent with the primary structure on the property. This proposed zoning code
change to support this expanded use was approved June 2025.

H
Building on last year’s work, Avenue Consultants continued to advance the City’s
comprehensive parking study and master plan. Following data collection, public engagement,
and the launch of parkingvineyard.org between October 2023 and February 2024, the project
entered its next phase in mid-2024. Funding for Phase 2 was approved in July 2024, allowing
the consultants to refine their analysis and develop detailed recommendations.As of this year,
the study is still ongoing. A final draft of the Parking Master Plan has been completed and is
currently under review by City staff. The draft is being prepared for presentation to the City
Council for formal consideration and approval.

Q
The Vineyard RDA Board was approved to administer the Housing and Transit Reinvestment
Zone (HTRZ) funds in 2023. Although the application process has been open since then, no
applications have been submitted to date. This is primarily due to current development activity
occurring outsidethe designated HTRZ boundary. However, the City is actively working to
finalize its Station Area Plan, which will more clearly define land uses and development
patterns within the area surrounding the FrontRunner station. This plan is intended to support
higher residential densities and transit-oriented development, ultimately increasing the
likelihood of HTRZ utilization as projects begin moving east toward the station. Until then, use
of the HTRZ remains limited, but future activity is expected to align with both the plan and the
funding tool’s objectives.




                                                                                              1124
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
L
-January 31, 2025 - Draft Transportation Master Plan received and reviewed.-In April 1, 2025,
Public Safety Master Plan and Impact fee data collected. - May 21, 2025 - Waste water and
water master plan impact fee work session and recommendation by Vineyard Planning
Commission.- May 28, 2025 - Waste water and Water master plan impact fee adopted- June 18,
2025 - Public Hearing held for transportation master plan and impact fees

V
Due to funding issues, staff had to take over some of the work from the consultant. Because of
that, efforts this year were focused on making edits to the draft document so that we meet the
requirements included in the SAP checklist.

F
The Vineyard Planning Commission approved a regionally significant entertainment use, which
is a pre-requisite for the Forge to proceed with building 1050 units. Most of the actions taken
this previous year were administrative reviews and approvals of site plans and building permits.
This included 3 plats, 2 site plans, and numerous land disturbance permit reviews. The city, in
its RDA capacity, has also partnered with the developer and has built a road network to handle
the growth capacity.

E
To support these updates, staff conducted research and drafted revisions to the City’s zoning
code. The proposed changes focused on allowing prefabricated housing types intended for
long-term placement—provided they are installed on a permanent foundation and designed to
be consistent with the primary structure on the property. These changes were shared with the
public through a series of work sessions with the Vineyard Planning Commission and City
Council, providing opportunities for comments and community input. Based on the feedback
received, the draft code was refined to better align with local expectations and design
standards. The updated zoning code was formally adopted by City Council on June 11, 2025.

H
Data collection and analysis, public engagement through work sessions, and close collaboration
between City staff and the consultants have all contributed to the development of the final draft
document, which is now under review.

Q
While no formal actions have been taken to activate the HTRZ program, City staff have held
preliminary discussions with the City Council and RDA Board to introduce the purpose and
potential of the HTRZ as a funding tool for transit-oriented development and the designated
station area. Concurrently, the City is working to finalize the Station Area Plan (SAP), which will
define land uses and identify strategies to support increased residential density near the




                                                                                                1125
FrontRunner station. Completion of the SAP is expected to provide the necessary framework to
guide future development within the HTRZ boundary and position the City to make more
informed and strategic use of HTRZ funds moving forward.




4.     Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
L
Impact fees and their waivers were adopted by the city council.

V
No land use decision has been made regarding the SAP. It is estimated that the SAP will go
through the public process (Planning Commission & City Council) in September and October
2025 and the MAG Policy Committee in November.

F
The site plans and plat approvals were land use decisions made by the planning commission or
development review committee. Before the developer of any residential product is able to
receive a building permit, they need approval of their plats and site plans.

E
Ordinance 2025-03, adopted by the City Council on June 11, 2025, advances the City’s strategy
to create and allow for internal and detached accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in residential
zones. It also reduces regulatory barriers to encourage a greater variety of ADU housing options
that support moderate-income households.

H
No land use regulation has been made.

Q
No land use regulation was made.




                                                                                            1126
5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
L
None.

V
Delay in progress due to inadequate funding.

F
None

E
City staff has nearly exhausted traditional approaches to promoting ADUs—such as basement
conversions and units above detached garages—and continues to explore innovative solutions.
Ongoing research includes studying how other cities and jurisdictions have successfully
expanded ADU options, with the goal of identifying new strategies that could be adapted to fit
Vineyard’s unique context and housing needs.

H
None

Q
None




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
L
No changes have been observed.

V
A developer sought out approval for a flex-office industrial building and due to the ongoing
efforts of the SAP and zoning update, they were willing to hold back on development until this
plan is adopted.

F
Certificate of occupancy has been issued by the City for 199 residential units within the Utah
City development and the ownership has these residential units listed and available for lease.


                                                                                              1127
E
Changes are so recent that there is no data to share at the time of this report.

H
As part of the City’s ongoing collaboration with parking consultants, staff gained valuable insight
into the root causes of persistent parking issues. Building on these findings, staff has been
working with HOAs to implement parking regulations within their respective developments.
These efforts have already helped reduce parking concerns in affected areas and now serve as
a model for similar partnerships citywide. Addressing occupancy-related parking challenges
remains an active focus, with staff continuing to apply targeted solutions based on consultant
recommendations.

Q
Over the past year, Vineyard City reviewed site plans and building permits for approximately
950 residential units within the Utah City development—located in the heart of the City’s
designated Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone (HTRZ). The HTRZ designation has helped
accelerate development activity in the downtown area by signaling the City’s commitment to
transit-oriented growth and streamlined processes.As of this update, the City has issued
Certificates of Occupancy for 199 residential units within the Utah City development. These
completed units have been listed by the project ownership and are now available for lease,
reflecting continued progress in the area’s transformation into a vibrant, mixed-use urban
center.




7.     Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
L

V

F

E

H

Q




                                                                                               1128
       Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
L

V

F

E

H

Q




FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Planning technical assistance,Staff
resources,Guidebooks for planning and reporting,Education on partnering with nonprofit
organizations or housing authorities


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
N/A


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                  1129
