General Plan - Definitions | West Valley City, UT - Official Site
Skip to Main Content
Search
Government
Services
Our Community
Business
How Do I…
Home
Government
Department List
Community Development
Planning & Zoning
General Plan
General Plan - Definitions
General Plan - Definitions
Appendix G - Definitions
1
The following is a list of terms that may be found in this document and their general meanings. In some cases, these concepts may be described more specifically and with greater local accuracy in areas within this plan such as mixed-use zones. The following definitions are provided for information only and may not necessarily reflect the precise definitions used by West Valley City in legal and policy decisions.
A
acre
A land area of 43,560 square feet.
accessory apartment; or mother-in-law apartment, granny flat, secondary suite
A secondary dwelling unit established in conjunction with and clearly subordinate to a primary dwelling unit, whether a part of the same structure as the primary dwelling unit or a detached dwelling unit on the same lot.
affordable housing
Housing units where the occupant is paying no more than 30 percent of gross income for housing costs, including taxes and utilities.
agriculture
the science, art, or practice of cultivating the soil, producing crops, and raising livestock and in varying degrees the preparation and marketing of the resulting products. Agricultural land can be used for any of these activities.
annexation
The act or process of adding land to a governmental unit, usually an incorporated place, by an ordinance, a court order, or other legal action.
apartment
A room or suite of rooms, with toilet and culinary accommodations, used or designed for use as a residence by a family, located in a building containing two or more such rooms or suites or located in a building devoted primarily to residential use.
arborist
An individual trained in arboriculture, forestry, landscape architecture, horticulture, or related fields and experienced in the conservation and preservation of native and ornamental trees. Also: urban forester.
arterial street (see street, arterial)
architectural feature
A part, portion, or projection that contributes to the beauty or elegance of a building or structure, exclusive of signs, that is not necessary for the structural integrity of the building or structure or to make said building or structure habitable.
architecture
The art and science of designing and constructing buildings adapted to their purposes, one of which is beauty.
art, public
A fountain, sculpture, painting, mural, or similar object that is sited within a planned development as a focal point and is intended for the enjoyment of the general public.
average annual daily total; or average annual daily traffic
The vehicle flow or number of vehicles using or passing a specific point on a road in a 24 hour period, which is averaged across one year to account for possible seasonal changes in flow.
B
benchmark
A performance-monitoring standard that allows a local government to periodically measure the ex tent to which the goals and policies of a local comprehensive land are being achieved.
bicycle amenities/facilities
Improvements and provisions which accommodate or encourage bicycling, including parking facilities, maps, signs, bike lanes, multi-use paths, and shared roadways designated for bicycle use.
bike lane
A corridor expressly reserved for bicycles, existing on a street or roadway in addition to any lanes for use by motorized vehicles. Some bike lanes may not be delineated on the street, these are generally referred to as ‘class 3’ bike lanes.
biocapacity; or biological capacity
The capacity of ecosystems to produce useful biological materials for use by humans, generally for the human economy, and to absorb wastes created by humans.
build out
Development of land to its full potential or theoretical capacity as permitted under current or proposed planning or zoning designations.
building code
The various codes of the city that regulate construction and require building permits, electrical permits, mechanical permits, plumbing permits, and other permits to do work regulated by city code pertaining to building and building regulation.
building orientation
The layout and design of a building on a particular site. Orientation of structures is very important for sustainable site and building design, allowing it for example to increase exposure to southern sunshine in the winter and control sun in the summer.
build-to line
A line with which the exterior wall of a building in a development is generally required to coincide.
bus rapid transit (see transit, bus-rapid)
C
capital improvement
When pertaining to government, an acquisition of real property, major construction projects, or acquisition of expensive equipment expected to last a long time.
carpool
A vehicle carrying two to six persons commuting together to and from work on a regular basis.
CC & R (see covenants, conditions and restrictions)
census
A complete enumeration, usually of a population, but also businesses and commercial establishments, farms, governments, and demographic information among other things.
character
The image and perception of a community as defined by its built environment, landscaping, natural features and open space, types and style of housing, and number and size of roads and sidewalks.
charrette
A public design workshop in which designers, property owners, developers, public officials, environmentalists, citizens, and other persons or group of people work in harmony to achieve an agreeable project design.
city council
The legislative or governing board in most cities.
city planning
Furthering the welfare of people and their communities by creating convenient, equitable, healthful, efficient, and attractive environments for present and future generations.
code enforcement
The person, office, or department designated by state law or the board of supervisors to enforce any provision of municipal code. Enforcing officer includes any county officer, employee, or agent to whom enforcement powers have been lawfully delegated by a designated enforcement officer.
commercial district
That portion of the city with designated land uses characterized by commercial office activities, services, and retail sales. Ordinarily these areas have large numbers of pedestrians and a heavy demand for parking space during periods of peak traffic or a sustained high pedestrian volume and a continuously heavy demand for off-street parking space during business hours.
commercial transportation industry
The combined economic class of commercial services dedicated primarily to the conveyance or transfer of goods between locations.
community development Area (CDA)
Redevelopment Agencies are given the authority to establish areas in which a city may undertake economic/community development. CDA’s are enabled to provide effective economic development tools which permit the Redevelopment Agency to encourage new capital investment, recruit new businesses by using CDA dollars for marketing and promotion, and create new revenue sources from business recruitment activities.
community development block grant (CDBG)
Grant funding provided through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development which support local community programs including affordable housing, infrastructure and elimination of poverty, slums and blight.
condominium
Real estate, portions of which are designated for separate ownership and the remainder of which is designated for common ownership solely by the owners of those portions. Real estate is not a condominium unless the undivided interests in the common elements are vested in the unit owners.
conservation
The management of natural resources to prevent waste, destruction, or degradation.
continuous flow intersection
An at-grade intersection that moves the left turn conflict out of the middle of the intersection to the side of the intersection. This eases traffic flow and security by eliminating the need for a left turn signal at the intersection, moving it instead back several hundred feet on the main thoroughfare.
corridor
A street or roadway identified as a principal link or gateway within the community.
cottage home
A small, single-family, sometimes simply constructed home, often located on smaller city lots.
council of governments
Voluntary associations of local government officials and entities.
covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs)
The formal restrictions governing use property which are generally created and enforced by a homeowners association or real estate developer. The CC&Rs may include such detailed rules as the acceptable color(s) of exterior paint and whether or not pets are allowed.
cultural resources (cultural infrastructure)
Those resources that possess qualities of significance in national, state, or local history, architecture, archaeology, and culture and which are present in districts, sites, structures, and objects that possess integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, and association.
cultural infrastructure
The identification and mapping of a community’s cultural resources
D
density
The number of dwelling units permitted per net acre of land.
design review
The comprehensive evaluation of a development and its impact on neighboring properties and the community as a whole, from the standpoint of site and landscape design, architecture, materials, colors, lighting, and signs, in accordance with a set of adopted criteria and standards.
design standards
A set of guidelines regarding the architectural appearance of a building, or improvement, that governs the alteration, construction, demolition, or relocation of a building, or improvement.
developer
That person who is improving a parcel of land within the city and who may or may not be the owner of the property.
dilapidated
No longer adequate for the purpose or use for which it was originally intended.
diversity
Differences among otherwise similar elements that give them unique forms and qualities (e.g., housing diversity can be achieved by differences in unit size, tenure, or cost).
duplex
A building designed as a single structure, containing two separate living units, each of which is designed to be occupied as a separate permanent residence for one family.
E
ecological footprint
A measure of human demand on the Earth’s ecosystems, comparing this demand with the Earth’s capacity to produce resources and absorb wastes or biocapacity.
economic development
Development that provides a service, produces a good, retails a commodity, or emerges in any other use or activity for the purpose of making financial gain.
economic development area (EDA)
Development on land facilitated through the creation by a Redevelopment Agency of a specific area, an EDA, that uses property tax as a development incentive. The development of these sites is intended to result in value-added job creation.
entertainment district
An area with a variety of uses that provide entertainment and supporting uses to the public, such as theaters, restaurants, plazas, outdoor cafes, kiosks, retail shops, public areas, and ways.
F
facade
That portion of any exterior elevation on the building extending from grade to top of the parapet, wall, or eaves and the entire width of the building elevation.
farmer’s market
An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or in a structure where groups of individual sellers offer for sale to the public such items as fresh produce, seasonal fruits, fresh flowers, arts and crafts items, and food and beverages (but not to include second-hand goods) dispensed from booths located on-site.
feasibility study
An analysis of a specific project or program to determine if it can be successfully carried out.
form-based zoning
Allows market demand to determine the mix of uses within the constraints of building type set by the community. The community establishes zones of building type and allows building owners to determine the uses. The look and layout of a street is carefully controlled to reflect neighborhood scale, parking standards, and pedestrian accessibility, but building owners and occupants are allowed maximum flexibility to determine how the buildings will be used.
four-plex
Single structures which contain four subdivided dwelling units all of which have individually separate entrances from the exterior of the structure.
freeway
A multilane highway for continuous traffic flow with all crossroads separated in grade and with full control of access.
G
gateway
An entrance corridor that heralds the approach of a new landscape and defines the arrival point as a destination.
general plan
A comprehensive declaration of goals, policies, and programs for the development of the city and including, where applicable, diagrams, maps, and text setting forth objectives, principles, standards, and other features, and which has been adopted by the city council.
good landlord incentive program
The Good Landlord Incentive Program, operated through West Valley City, provides reduced business licensing fees and other city support in exchange for a commitment to appropriate standards of property and tenant maintenance. This program may be strongly encouraged of landlords with complaint or code violation histories.
grade
The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
grade separation
The physical development of structures or intersections that separate motor vehicles from motor vehicles; motor vehicles, pedestrians, and bicyclists from trains; motor vehicles from pedestrians and bicycles, as well as pedestrians from bicycles.
granger crossings
The commercial corridor along 3500 South between Redwood Road and Interstate 215 in West Valley City, Utah. May also refer to the Granger Crossings Business Improvement District in the same area with concentrations of ethnic businesses and designed to enhance commercial opportunities.
granny flat (see accessory apartment)
green building
Structures that incorporate the principles of sustainable design— design in which the impact of a building on the environment will be minimal over the lifetime of that building. Green buildings incorporate principles of energy and resource efficiency, practical applications of waste reduction and pollution prevention, good indoor air quality and natural light to promote occupant health and productivity, and transportation efficiency in design and construction, during use and reuse.
greenhouse gas
Any of many gaseous elements in the Earth’s upper atmosphere, whether natural or human generated, that generally prevent heat energy from escaping into space by deflecting it back to Earth.
greywater
Wastewater obtained from domestic sinks and tubs, but excluding that part of the plumbing waste stream that includes human wastes.
H
habitat
The physical location or type of environment in which an organism or biological population lives or occurs.
high impact corridor
Major transportation thoroughfares that have a significant amount of automobile traffic and concentrations of commercial and residential development.
highway (see freeway)
home occupation
An occupation carried on in a dwelling unit by the resident thereof; provided that the use is limited in extent and incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes and does not change the character thereof.
home owners association (HOA)
A legal entity, often a non-profit corporation, created by a real estate developer or group of property owners generally for the purpose of managing common or shared property, collecting dues, as well as creating and enforcing collective rules known as covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) that control property use.
household
The person or persons occupying a dwelling unit.
housing, low-income
Housing that is affordable, according to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, for either home ownership or rental, and that is occupied, reserved, or marketed for occupancy for households with a gross household income that does not exceed 50 percent of the median gross household income for households of the same size within the housing region in which the housing is located.
housing, moderate-income
Housing that is affordable, according to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, for either home ownership or rental, and that is occupied, reserved, or marketed for occupancy by households with a gross household income that is greater than 50 percent but does not exceed 80 percent of the median gross household income for households of the same size within the housing region in which the housing is located.
housing, very low-income
Housing that is affordable, according to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, for either home ownership or rental, and that is occupied, reserved, or marketed for occupancy for households with a gross household income that does not exceed 30 percent of the median gross household income for households of the same size within the housing region in which the housing is located.
housing unit, multifamily
A building containing four or more individual dwellings with separate cooking and toilet facilities for each dwelling.
housing unit, single-family
A building designed exclusively for and occupied exclusively by one family.
I, J, K
impact
The effect of any direct man-made actions or indirect repercussions of man-made actions on existing physical, social, or economic conditions.
industrial district
That portion of the city with designated land uses characterized by production, manufacturing, distribution, or fabrication activities. Ordinarily these areas have few pedestrians and a low parking turnover, but there is a large amount of truck and trailer traffic.
industrial ecology; also industrial symbiosis
An interdisciplinary field that focuses on sustainability by bringing together economic, environmental and industrial concepts. Industrial Ecology often suggests natural systems as models for the production of goods and proposes creating ‘closed-loop’, or waste-less, industrial and manufacturing systems.
infill development
The development of vacant or partially developed parcels which are surrounded by or in close proximity to areas that are substantially or fully developed.
infrastructure
Facilities and services needed to sustain industry, residential, commercial, and all other land-use activities, including water, sewer lines, and other utilities, streets and roads, communications, and public facilities such as fire stations, parks, schools, etc.
intensity (also development intensity)
Relative measure of development impact as defined by characteristics such as the number of dwelling units per acre, amount of traffic generated, and amount of site coverage.
ithink©
iThink is a software produced by ISEE Systems that assists in the creation of system models that simulate business processes and scenarios, illustrating the impacts of procedure or policy, and providing insight into the elements that are most likely to affect system change
L
land use
The occupation or use of land or water area for any human activity or any purpose.
landscaping
An expanse of scenery including lawns, trees, plants, and other organic or inorganic materials used to soften or mitigate the impacts of development.
landscape plan
The graphic and written representation of an area’s existing or planned natural features which may include trees, shrubs, ground cover, boulders, sod, irrigation, paths or trails, lighting, erosion prevention, and other elements.
leadership in energy and environmental design (LEED)
The Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Green Building Rating System™ encourages and accelerates global adoption of sustainable green building and development practices through the creation and implementation of universally understood and accepted tools and performance criteria.
level of service (LOS) standard, traffic
A scale that measures the amount of traffic that a roadway or intersection can accommodate, based on such factors as maneuverability, driver dissatisfaction, and delay. Level of Service A indicates a relatively free flow of traffic, with little or no limitation on vehicle movement or speed. Level of Service B describes a steady flow of traffic, with only slight delays in vehicle movement and speed. All queues clear in a single signal cycle. Level of Service C denotes a reasonably steady, high-volume flow of traffic, with some limitations on movement and speed, and occasional backups on critical approaches. Level of Service D designates the level where traffic nears an unstable flow. Intersections still function, but short queues develop and cars may have to wait through one cycle during short peaks. Level of Service E represents traffic characterized by slow movement and frequent (although momentary) stoppages. This type of congestion is considered severe, but is not uncommon at peak traffic hours, with frequent stopping, long-standing queues, and blocked intersections. Level of Service F describes unsatisfactory stop-and-go traffic characterized by “traffic jams” and stoppages of long duration. Vehicles at signalized intersections usually have to wait through one or more signal changes, and “upstream” intersections may be blocked by the long queues.
light-rail transit (See transit, light-rail)
local business
A business that is independently owned and operated in a community by a resident(s) of the same community.
lot line
A line (such as a property line) dividing one lot from another or from a street or any public place.
M, N, O
massing
The size, shape, grouping and relationships of individual buildings taken together to form a unified body or mass.
master plan; or specific plan
A detailed policy plan or regulation that implements the comprehensive plan or any of the elements of that plan. Specific plans include area and neighborhood plans, land-use code, and other similar plans.
master plan, small area
A detailed policy, strategic and land use plan that addresses multiple complex issues within an area that is a subset of the municipal boundaries.
master plan, topical
A detailed policy and strategic plan that addresses a particular topic or select set of topics throughout the municipal boundaries such as bicycle and pedestrian master plan or stormwater master plan.
matching grant
A grant given for public good generally conditioned on a corresponding and similar contribution of money from the beneficiary organization or community.
mill levy; also permille or millage rate
The application or expression of property tax in a ‘mill’ rate or amount in one-thousandths of a dollar. Property tax is calculated by multiplying the assessed property value by the mill rate and dividing by on thousand.
mixed-use development
The development of a tract of land or building or structure with two or more different uses such as but not limited to residential, office, retail, public, or entertainment, in a compact urban form.
mobile home
A transportable structure suitable for year-round single-family occupancy and having water, electrical, sewage connections similar to those of conventional dwellings.
mother-in-law apartment (see accessory apartment)
multifamily (see housing unit, multifamily)
nonconforming use; or nonconforming
A use which was legally established but which is no longer classified as a permitted or conditional use in the zoning district in which it is located.
office
A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a business, profession, service industry, or government.
open space
Any land or area, the preservation of which in its present use would: (1) conserve and enhance natural or scenic resources; or (2) protect streams or water supply; or (3) promote conservation of soils, wetlands, beaches, or tidal marshes; or (4) enhance the value to the public of abutting or neighboring parks, forests, wildlife preserves, nature reservations, or sanctuaries; or (5) enhance recreation opportunities.
orientation (see building orientation)
overlay zoning district; or overlay zone
An area where certain additional requirements are superimposed upon a base zoning district or underlying district and where the requirements of the base or underlying district may or may not be altered.
P
parcel
Any legally described piece of land designated by the owner or developer as land to be used or developed as a unit, or that has been developed as a unit.
park
Land that is publicly owned or controlled for the purpose of providing recreation, or open space for public use.
park-and-ride facility
Parking lots or structures located along public transit routes designed to encourage transfer from private automobile to mass transit or to encourage carpooling for purposes of commuting, or for access to recreation areas.
parking, shared
A public or private parking area used jointly by two or more uses.
park strip
The landscaped, xeriscaped or grassy strip of land between the sidewalk and the street.
pedestrian connection
A continuous, unobstructed, reasonably direct route between two points that is intended and suitable for pedestrian use. Pedestrian connections include but are not limited to sidewalks, walkways, accessways, stairways, and pedestrian bridges.
pedestrian-friendly
The density, layout, and infrastructure that encourages walking and biking within a subdivision or development, including short setbacks, front porches, sidewalks, and bike paths.
permit, conditional use
A permit issued by the city that allow some uses of property not otherwise allowed by right, often including additional requirements.
permitted use
Any use authorized or permitted alone or in conjunction with another use in a specific district and subject to the limitations of the regulations of such use district.
planned unit development (PUD)
A description of a proposed unified development, consisting at a minimum of a map and adopted ordinance setting forth the regulations governing, and the location and phasing of all proposed uses and improvements to be included in the development.
planning commission
A board of the local government consisting of such [elected and appointed or appointed] members whose functions include advisory or nontechnical aspects of planning and may also include such other powers and duties as may be assigned to it by the legislative body.
policy
A general rule for action focused on a specific issue, derived from more general goals.
pollution
The presence of matter or energy whose nature, location, or quantity produces undesired environmental effects.
population projection
A prediction of a future demographic condition that will occur if the assumptions inherent in the projection technique prove true.
public ownership; or publicly owned
Belonging or open to, enjoyed and used by and/or maintained for people within a community generally, but not limited to a facility the control of which is wholly or partially exercised by some governmental agency.
public transportation
Services provided for the public on a regular basis by vehicles such as bus or rail on public ways, using specific routes and schedules, and usually on a fare-paying basis.
pulse node; or pulse-node model of development
Pulse-node describes an urban planning development model, which promotes major development around important transit/transportation intersections or hubs, consisting of high intensity mixed uses, suggests medium intensity mixed use developments located in between the major transit hubs or intersections, and protects low intensity uses intended to fill in behind the major corridor land uses
Q, R
quality of life
The attributes or amenities that combine to make an area a good place to live. Examples include the availability of political, educational, and social support systems; good relations among constituent groups; a healthy physical environment; and economic opportunities for both individuals and businesses.
recreation
The refreshment of body and mind through forms of play, amusement, or relaxation. The recreational experience may be active, such as fishing, sports, and swimming, or may be passive, such as enjoying the natural beauty of open space or its wildlife.
redevelopment agency
A redevelopment agency is a governmental entity that may use special legal and financial mechanisms to eliminate blight and improve economic and physical conditions in designated areas of a city.
redevelopment area (RDA)
An area identified (also called an RDA), which is blighted and requires local assistance to reasonably justify any type of economic renewal. Financing and investment tools available to the redevelopment agency are applied to implement local community development goals.
regional transportation plan
A long term plan or blueprint for roads and mobility at a scale greater than that of a single jurisdiction, and affecting a broad geographic area. This plan generally considers the varied principles of safety, economic development, different modes of transportation, movement of freight and long term demographic projections.
residential area
An area of land lawfully used, designated in the comprehensive plan, and approved in a master plan, zoning ordinance, development order, or other final development approval for residential purposes.
retail
The selling of goods, wares, or merchandise directly to the ultimate consumer or persons without a resale license.
revitalization
The imparting of new economic and community life in an existing neighborhood, area, or business district while at the same time preserving the original building stock and historic character.
right-of-way (ROW)
An area dedicated to public use for pedestrian and vehicular movement, which may also accommodate public utilities.
S
safe routes to school
A set of programs use a variety of education, engineering and enforcement strategies that help make routes safer for children to walk and bicycle to school and encouragement strategies to entice more children to walk and bicycle. They have grown popular in recent years in response to problems created by an expanding built environment, a growing reliance on motor vehicles for student transportation and with the more recent development of federal and state funding of SRTS programs.
sense of place
The characteristics of a location that make it readily recognizable as being unique and different from its surroundings and that provides a feeling of belonging to or being identified with that particular place.
setback
The minimum distance by which any building, structure or parking lot must be separated from a street right-of-way or lot line.
signal synchronization
The coordinated timing of traffic lights along successive intersections to facilitate the movement of traffic.
solar energy system
Includes: (1) A design using natural and architectural features to cool or heat a structure, or (2) a mechanical assembly that may include a solar collector, storage facility, and any other components needed to cool or heat a structure.
special service district (SSD)
An area within a community designated by city ordinance to assess payments for construction or installation of public facilities that primarily benefit the property owners within the district.
specific plan (see master plan)
standard
A criterion that defines the meaning of a policy by providing a way to measure its attainment.
stormwater detention area
A structure or facility, natural or artificial, which stores stormwater on a temporary basis and releases it at a controlled rate. A detention basin may drain completely after a storm event, or it may be a body of water with a fixed minimum and maximum water elevation between runoff events.
story
A space in a building between the surface of any floor and the surface of the next floor above, or if there is no floor above, then the space between such floor and the ceiling or roof above.
strategic plan
A plan articulating desirable characteristics to be used in structured, on-going, and often administrative or program decisions that are intended to achieve specified objectives.
street
A public thoroughfare, including road, highway, drive, lane, avenue, place, boulevard, and any other thoroughfare that affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
street, arterial
Medium-speed (30–40 mph), medium capacity (10,000–35,000 average daily trips) roadway that provides intracommunity travel and access to the countywide highway system. Access to community arterials should be provided at collector roads and local streets, but direct access from parcels to existing arterials is common.
street capacity
The maximum number of vehicles which have a reasonable expectation of passing over a given section of a lane or a roadway in one direction, or in both directions for a two- or four-lane highway, during a given time period under prevailing traffic conditions.
street, collector/distributor
Relatively low speed (25–30 mph), relatively low-volume (5,000–20,000 average daily trips) street that provides circulation within and between neighborhoods. Collectors usually serve short trips and are intended for collecting trips from local streets and distributing them to the arterial network.
street cross section
A graphic profile of the ground surface perpendicular to the center line of a street.
street, cul-de-sac
A local street having one end open to vehicular traffic and the other end permanently closed with a vehicular turnaround.
street furniture
Those features associated with a street that are intended to enhance that street’s physical character and use by pedestrians, such as benches, trash receptacles, kiosks, lights, newspaper racks, etc.
street plan, major
A map showing a system of vehicular circulation comprised of present and proposed major and secondary streets of the county or a municipality and adopted pursuant to law.
street tree
Tree(s) strategically planted, usually in parkway strips or medians to enhance the visual quality of a street.
strip mall; or strip development
Commercial development, usually one store deep, that fronts on and is often parallel to a major street. Includes individual buildings on their own lots, with or without on-site parking, and small linear shopping centers with shallow on-site parking in front of the stores.
suburban
An outlying part of city or town, or a lower density residential area adjacent to a higher density residential and commercial or urban area.
sustainable; or sustainability
Community use of natural resources in a way that does not jeopardize the ability of future generations to live and prosper.
T
tax base
The sum of taxable activities, collective value of real estate, and assets subject to tax within a community.
townhome
A one-family dwelling unit, with a private entrance, which is part of a structure whose dwelling units are attached horizontally in a linear arrangement, and having a totally exposed front and rear wall to be used for access, light, and ventilation.
township
A contiguous, geographically defined portion of the unincorporated area of a county with planning and zoning functions as exercised through the township planning commission, but with no legal or political identity separate from the county and no taxing authority.
traffic calming
The application of primarily physical features on a streetscape to reduce the negative impacts of automobiles such as speeding.
trail
A way or path designed for and used by equestrians, pedestrians, and cyclists using nonmotorized bicycles.
transfer of development rights (TDR)
A program that can relocate potential development from areas where proposed land use or environmental impacts are considered undesirable (the “donor” site) to another (“receiver”) site chosen on the basis of its ability to accommodate additional units of development beyond that for which it was zoned, with minimal environmental, social, and aesthetic impacts.
transit
The conveyance of persons or goods from one place to another by means of a local, public transportation system.
transit, bus-rapid; bus rapid transit (BRT)
A type of limited-stop, high speed bus service frequently operated in a dedicated right-of-way.
transit, light-rail
Street cars or trolley cars that typically operate entirely or substantially on ‘at-grade’ rights-of-way. Vehicles are typically electrically self-propelled and generally operate on exclusive lanes separated from automobile traffic.
transit node
An area where multiple modes of transportation intersect, providing a variety of transit options.
transit-oriented development (TOD)
Moderate- and high-density housing concentrated in mixed-use developments located along transit routes. The location, design, and mix of uses in a TOD emphasize pedestrian-oriented environments and encourage the use of public transportation.
transportation plan
That portion of the comprehensive plan or regional plan adopted by the city indicating the general location recommended for expressway, arterial, collector, and local thoroughfares within the corporate limits of the city.
U, V
urban
Characteristic of a relatively high density city environment.
urban design
The attempt to give form, in terms of both beauty and function, to selected urban areas or to whole cities. Urban design is concerned with the location, mass, and design of various urban components and combines elements of urban planning, architecture, and landscape architecture.
use; land use
Any purpose for which a lot, building, or other structure or a tract of land may be designated, arranged, intended, maintained, or occupied; or any activity, occupation, business, or operation carried on or intended to be carried on in a building or other structure or on a tract of land.
use, conditional
A use or occupancy of a structure, or a use of land, permitted only upon issuance of a conditional use permit and subject to the limitations and conditions specified therein.
use, permitted
A use permitted in a district without the need for special administrative review and approval, upon satisfaction of the standards and requirements of appropriate ordinance.
utilities
All lines and facilities related to the provision, distribution, collection, transmission, or disposal of water, storm and sanitary sewage, oil, gas, power, information, telecommunication and telephone cable, and includes facilities for the generation of electricity.
vertical axis wind turbine (see wind turbine)
W, X, Y, Z
walkable
Suitable for being walked; or describing an area designed in such a way as to make walking it more comfortable for pedestrian activity.
wasatch front regional council (WFRC)
The WFRC is a voluntary organization of governments dedicated to fostering a cooperative effort in resolving problems, and developing policies and plans that are common to two or more counties or are regional in nature.
watershed
A region or area wherein all water ultimately drains to a particular watercourse, water system or body of water.
wetland
Those areas that are inundated and saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
wind turbine; also vertical axis wind turbine
An alternate energy device which converts wind energy by means of a rotor to mechanical or electrical energy. A wind generator may also be deemed a windmill. Most turbines operate on a horizontal axis spinning such as an airplane rotor does, though vertical axis wind turbines are currently being developed that have the advantage of rotating no matter the direction of the wind.
xeriscaping
Landscaping characterized by the use of vegetation that is drought-tolerant or of low water use in character.
zone
A specifically delineated area or district within which uniform development standards govern the use, placement, spacing, and size of land and buildings.
zoning
The division of a city or county by legislative regulations into areas, or zones, which specify allowable uses for real property and size restrictions for buildings within these areas. Also, a program that implements policies of the general plan.
General Plan - Introduction
General Plan - Administration
General Plan - Land Use
General Plan - Economic Development
General Plan - Urban Design
General Plan - Existing Neighborhoods
General Plan - Housing
General Plan - Community Facilities
General Plan - Parks, Recreation, and Culture
General Plan - Transportation
General Plan - Major Street Plan
General Plan - Definitions
Truth in Taxation
Contact Us
Jobs
Service Request
Police
Fire
Contact Us
City Hall
3600 South Constitution Boulevard
West Valley City, UT 84119
Phone:
801-966-3600
TTY: 385-316-8658
Quick Links
Salt Lake County Notice of Proposed Tax Increases FY 26 - 27
City Election Information
Permit Requirements
Maps
City Code
/QuickLinks.aspx
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
/QuickLinks.aspx
Site Links
Home
Site Map
Accessibility
Copyright / Privacy / Cookies
Employee Intranet
/QuickLinks.aspx
Government Websites by
CivicPlus®
Loading
Loading
Do Not Show Again
Close
Arrow Left
Arrow Right
[]
Slideshow Left Arrow
Slideshow Right Arrow
