General Plan - Land Use | West Valley City, UT - Official Site
Skip to Main Content
Search
Government
Services
Our Community
Business
How Do I…
Home
Government
Department List
Community Development
Planning & Zoning
General Plan
General Plan - Land Use
General Plan - Land Use
3-1 Introduction
This element of the General Plan discusses the land use strategies that are proposed for West Valley City for the next twenty years. As most of West Valley City is largely built and established, rather than divide the City up into planning districts, the General Plan focuses on “opportunity areas” for the purposes of suggesting future land use policies. These are areas of the City that are most likely to experience change in the time horizon of the General Plan, and the land use policies for each area are intended to guide the changes in a manner that benefits the community as a whole.
The opportunity areas in West Valley City are:
The four light rail station areas:
River Trail Station Area
Redwood Junction Station Area
Decker Lake Station Area
West Valley Central Station Area known as Fairbourne Station
The Southwest Opportunity Area located generally south of 4100 South and west of 6400 West
The major arterial streets of 3500 South and Redwood Road
The four light rail station areas are addressed in the Appendix as station area plans. The other opportunity areas are addressed in this element.
3-2 Guiding Principles for Land Use
The land use policies proposed in this section for each opportunity area and the future land use map were based in part on the following four guiding principles:
The City should preserve and enhance its existing single family neighborhoods. The preservation of single family neighborhoods is one significant goal of the General Plan. With a few limited exceptions, no land use changes are suggested for the majority of single family residential zones within the City. Rather than allowing density throughout the community, this Plan focuses higher density housing and other more intense land uses near light rail stations and along major arterial streets.
The City should encourage industrial and commercial development to promote revenue and job growth. The City’s revenue is made up of property tax, sales tax, and franchise and other taxes, with property tax being a primary City revenue source. Property tax growth is accomplished by new construction, including redevelopment. Since residential development is taxed at only 55% of its value and commercial and industrial development is taxed at 100% of its value, commercial and industrial development yields more property tax per dollar of value. Therefore, the City can increase its property tax revenue collection the most by encouraging commercial and industrial development.
The City should encourage transit oriented development (TOD) in strategic locations. Transit oriented development (TOD) combines different land uses at higher intensities, centered around transit opportunities and built at a pedestrian accessible scale. Rather than separating land uses, TOD seeks to integrate them. In addition to the obvious benefit of placing new residents and employees by transit to promote ridership, TOD can be the catalyst to revitalize blighted areas. Fairbourne Station offers an example of revitalizing a blighted area through TOD. Desiring to change the area around City Hall into a new town center, the City formed the City Center Redevelopment Area in 2004. When TRAX light rail construction in West Valley City began in 2009, the area around City Hall was a mix of single family homes, duplexes, large and small apartment buildings, a mobile home park, and underperforming commercial buildings of various sizes. The road network served individual developments via a collection of dead ends and private drives, and there was little or no connectivity between various land uses. With significant City and UTA investment, the area is now home to an improved road network, a hotel, an office building, multi-family residential development, a medical office building, and a new public plaza and park.
The City should promote a greater balance of housing. Despite recent home value appreciation, the City still has relatively little housing at the higher end of the county level market. Table 3-1 below shows how nearly half of all owner-occupied housing in Salt Lake County is valued at $500,000 or more while in West Valley that percentage is below 20%. At a value of $750,000 or more, the County has over 17% of owner-occupied housing at this value while West Valley has less than 2%. With a small amount of land remaining for residential development, the City should steer high value housing on larger lots to vacant land planned for residential use.
Table 3-1: Percentage of Total Owner-Occupied Housing Units by Value
Source: U.S. Census Bureau American Community Survey (ACS) Tables B25063 and B25075 2019 - 2023 5-Year Estimates
Place
Up to $249,999
$250,000 to $499,999
$500,000 to $749,999
$750,000 to $999,999
Over $1,000,000
Salt Lake County
9.5%
43.7%
29.6%
10.0%
7.3%
West Valley City
16.4%
66.7%
14.9%
1.1%
0.8%
3-3 Southwest Opportunity Area
The Southwest Opportunity Area, which is generally located south of 4100 South and west of 6400 West is unique in the City for several reasons. First, the area includes two large, manufacturing businesses, Northrop Grumman and Hexcel, and three sand and gravel extraction operations. Second, unlike other areas in the City, this area is comprised mostly of large parcels with relatively few owners as shown in Figure 3-1. Third, while much of the City is fairly flat, this area has significant topography changes with the land sloping up as you move to the southwest as shown in Figure 3-2. Fourth, the area contains roughly 1,400 acres of vacant land, which does not include the sand and gravel extraction operations that will likely be repurposed in the future. Much of this land became available when Northrop Grumman consolidated their operations and traded land with Kennecott, leaving Kennecott with large, developable parcels.
Figure 3-1
Figure 3-2
Figure 3-3 below is the future land use map for the Southwest Opportunity Area. This map includes numbers for the major use designations. An explanation of these use designations is below:
Heavy Manufacturing: This designation recognizes the existing uses of Northrop Grumman with the associated overpressure zones and Hexcel. It also acknowledges the fact that when Northrop Grumman transferred the vacant property north of 5400 South to Kennecott, they did so with a deed restriction that prohibits residential use.
Light Manufacturing: This designation recognizes the deed restriction mentioned above along with the neighboring industrial uses. It also acknowledges the residential uses on the east side of 6400 West.
Light Manufacturing: This designation recognizes the long-standing zoning in the area, Hexcel’s desire to maintain a large separation from residential, the transportation access provided by the Mountain View Corridor at 5400 South and 6200 South, and the built in buffers created by SR-111 and the Mountain View Corridor to existing residential and potential future residential. While the existing sand and gravel operators within this area will likely be repurposed in the future, their continued presence makes the introduction of residential into this area less desirable.
Large Lot Residential: This designation recognizes the elevated position of these properties along with the Council’s desire for higher end housing.
Low Density Residential: This designation recognizes the existing residential development in this area along with the existing entitlements on the remaining vacant land.
Figure 3-3
3-4 Major Arterial Streets Opportunity Areas
As part of this General Plan update, the City retained Leland Consulting to identify properties where development or redevelopment were likely along Redwood Road and 3500 South and to propose realistic development scenarios for the identified properties. These properties and their associated development scenarios were presented to both the Planning Commission and City Council for their input. The future land use map reflects the input from both the Commission and Council.
There are several locations along both Redwood Road and 3500 South where the future land use map shows the introduction of residential uses into an area that is currently zoned and, in some cases, developed as commercial. Where a mix of both commercial and residential uses are desired, the future land use map shows both uses. In cases where commercial or residential uses were deemed appropriate, a mixed use designation is shown. Below is a list of these mixed use areas and what future land use designation is intended for each area:
2327 - 2343 South Redwood Road: Medium Density Residential or Medium Density Residential with General Commercial
2702 - 3198 West 3500 South: General Commercial or Very High Density Residential
3101 - 3299 South Decker Lake Drive: Entertainment and Very High Density Residential
3232 - 3260 South Redwood Road: General Commercial or Medium Density Residential
Valley Fair Mall: General Commercial and Very High Density Residential
3491 - 3555 West 3500 South: General Commercial or Medium Density Residential
4909 - 4949 West 3500 South: General Commercial or Medium Density Residential
5651 West 5400 South: General Commercial or Medium Density Residential
3-5 General Plan Map and Definitions
The following definitions are intended to be taken together with the West Valley City General Plan Map. The General Plan Map illustrates the anticipated future land uses within the City. It is a product of a variety of input sources including past land use maps, existing and planned transportation facilities, the West Valley City Planning Commission, the West Valley City Council, West Valley City Planning and Economic Development staff, as well as feedback from the public.
The General Plan Map reflects a twenty-year perspective and should not be viewed as calling for imminent and immediate change to any part of the City. As the City grows and changes, the land use vision expressed on this map will be applied to direct these changes, or changed to represent shifts in conditions. This map should not be confused with the Zoning Map or its applicable ordinances, though the City does try to maintain consistency between these two different maps.
The following are descriptions to the different components of the West Valley City General Plan Map.
Parks
Parks and Open Space: These areas on the West Valley City General Plan Map indicate the locations of public parks, trail corridors, golf courses, open space, and land acquired for these purposes.
Proposed Neighborhood Park Area: These areas have been identified as general locations where a small, 0.5 to 5 acre park is needed.
Commercial and Mixed Use Districts
Non-Retail Commercial: These areas are meant to invite small-scale commercial offices and professional services that fit into lower density primarily residential (single family, detached) neighborhoods. These are commercial-only areas.
Neighborhood Commercial: The Neighborhood Commercial areas allow for convenient shopping facilities which appropriately fit within and serve a neighborhood-oriented market. These facilities supply day to day necessities for local residents.
General Commercial: General Commercial is established to provide locations for a full range of office, retail commercial and service uses which are oriented to serve both local and regional market demand. A variety of commercial activities are encouraged, especially those which promote both day and night consumer activity.
Entertainment District: This section of the City already contains several entertainment-focused venues including the Maverik Center and the West Valley Performing Arts Center. This district will encourage more entertainment and other complementary uses such as hotels and restaurants within or nearby to build upon existing vitality. Broad goals in this area include the encouragement of a more pedestrian-friendly environment and increasing the rich variety of services and opportunities to attract more visitors to this vibrant and fun area.
Business Park: Business Park areas on the General Plan Map illustrate the districts where a variety of office buildings, light industrial facilities, research centers, and supporting services are grouped together in a planned setting.
Mixed Use: Mixed Use is intended to facilitate the integration of diverse but compatible uses into a single development. The level of intensity and variety of uses will depend upon the site location in the City as described in this chapter.
Residential Districts
All of these districts on the West Valley City General Plan Map are intended to be residential-only, except when other uses are permitted as of right or through conditional use application by the West Valley City Zoning Ordinance.
Very High Density Residential (Over 20 units per acre): Examples of Very High Density Residential include multi-story condominiums and apartments.
High Density Residential (12 to 20 units per acre): Examples of High Density Residential include stacked flat condominiums and apartments.
Medium Density Residential (7 to 12 units per acre): Examples of Medium Density Residential include townhomes, row homes or single level condominiums.
Small Lot Residential (4 to 7 units per acre): Small Lot Residential means single-family detached homes on small lots.
Low Density Residential (3 to 4 units per acre): Homes in these districts are typically single-family detached units.
Large Lot Residential (2 to 3 units per acre): Homes in these districts are typically single-family detached units.
Rural Residential (2 or fewer units per acre): Homes in these districts are typically single-family detached units.
Manufacturing and Industrial Districts
Light Manufacturing: Light Manufacturing areas provide for the manufacture, predominantly from previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts. This may include processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental storage, sales or distribution of such products. Light Manufacturing does not include extracting industries, petrochemical industries, rubber refining, concrete fabrication, primary metal or related industries.
Heavy Manufacturing: Heavy Manufacturing is established to provide suitable locations for uses engaged in the basic processing and manufacturing of materials or products predominantly from extracted or raw materials. Also included are uses that engage in storage of or manufacturing processes using flammable or explosive materials, or storage or manufacturing processes that involve potentially hazardous conditions. Further, Heavy Manufacturing means uses such as the manufacture of electronic instruments, preparation of food products, pharmaceutical manufacturing, research and scientific laboratories or the like. Heavy Manufacturing also means those uses engaged in the maintenance or sales of heavy equipment or commercial trucks, or work processes involving solvents, solid waste or sanitary waste transfer stations as well as recycling facilities or salvage yards, towing yards or impound yards.
Other Districts
Utility: Utility is used to indicate where a private or public utility has a permanent installation, public access is generally not allowed, and the land is not likely to be used for any other purpose in the future.
Community: The Community designation is applied to a variety of government, community, or private land uses such as City and County government buildings, churches, schools, and even cemeteries. These parcels may or may not have permanent structures, but they are unlikely to change to another land use in the future.
3-6 Population Projections Based on General Plan Map
As required by State code (subsection 2aiB of Section 10-9a-403), the table below provides a population projection for the City based on the land use categories in the City’s General Plan Map.
Housing Type
Housing Units as of 1/1/2025
Estimated Population as of 1/1/2025
Projected Housing Units by 2045 According to General Plan Map
Projected Population by 2045 According to General Plan Map
Single Family Detached
28,174
103,040
29,701
108,625
Multi-Family
13,408
33,151
16,543
41,121
Mobile Home
2,520
8,113
2,520
8,113
Group Quarters
-
402
-
402
Totals
44,102
144,705
48,764
158,261
General Plan - Introduction
General Plan - Administration
General Plan - Land Use
General Plan - Economic Development
General Plan - Urban Design
General Plan - Existing Neighborhoods
General Plan - Housing
General Plan - Community Facilities
General Plan - Parks, Recreation, and Culture
General Plan - Transportation
General Plan - Major Street Plan
General Plan - Definitions
Truth in Taxation
Contact Us
Jobs
Service Request
Police
Fire
Contact Us
City Hall
3600 South Constitution Boulevard
West Valley City, UT 84119
Phone:
801-966-3600
TTY: 385-316-8658
Quick Links
Salt Lake County Notice of Proposed Tax Increases FY 26 - 27
City Election Information
Permit Requirements
Maps
City Code
/QuickLinks.aspx
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
/QuickLinks.aspx
Site Links
Home
Site Map
Accessibility
Copyright / Privacy / Cookies
Employee Intranet
/QuickLinks.aspx
Government Websites by
CivicPlus®
Loading
Loading
Do Not Show Again
Close
Arrow Left
Arrow Right
[]
Slideshow Left Arrow
Slideshow Right Arrow
