General Plan - Urban Design | West Valley City, UT - Official Site
Skip to Main Content
Search
Government
Services
Our Community
Business
How Do I…
Home
Government
Department List
Community Development
Planning & Zoning
General Plan
General Plan - Urban Design
General Plan - Urban Design
5-1 Introduction
The way a city plans and designs its public spaces shapes how it is perceived. Urban design has many components, including street design, street furniture, the placement of utilities, landscaping, signage, and building and site design. The following chapter identifies several issues related to urban design in West Valley City, and makes recommendations to enhance the City’s appearance and perception through quality urban design.
5-2 Background
Urban design considerations include:
Street pavement width
Park strip/tree wells: width and composition
Sidewalks: width and location
Street furniture: lighting, benches, etc.
Utilities (placement of lines and boxes)
Landscaping along property frontage: width and composition
Signs: size, height, placement, and design
Setbacks/build to lines
Building orientation
Building design
Building height
Parking: location and screening
Pedestrian accommodations
Property maintenance
Several of the design considerations listed above are addressed in the concept of complete streets. The website
www.smartgrowthamerica.org
defines complete streets as streets “designed and operated to enable safe access for all users, including pedestrians, bicyclists, motorists and transit riders of all ages and abilities.”
5-3 Vision
West Valley City should pursue an urban design strategy that will include a greater intensity of development to create a recognizable downtown; utilize transit more extensively; conserve resources; take advantage of existing infrastructure; promote attractive streetscapes including trees and other landscaping, buildings close to the street, high quality architecture and street furniture, and appropriate signage; and include pedestrian and bicycle accommodations.
5-4 Issues, Goals and Actions
There are two sources of input and evaluation that led to the urban design issues, goals, and actions in this chapter. City staff reviewed the issues, goals, and actions from the previous General Plan and carried over those that were still relevant. The second source of input was City staff research and experience.
Issue: Suburban and Urban Development
When addressing the issue of urban design, one size does not fit all. Building setbacks and size and street widths among many other factors vary greatly throughout cities. The concept of transect zones used in the SmartCode developed by Duany Plater-Zyberk & Company (DPZ) recognizes this fact and essentially provides urban design options ranging from natural/rural to downtown/urban. The question for the City to answer is what level of development intensity should be planned for. How we answer this question will guide the development of urban design criteria.
On the issue of development intensity, there are at least three factors to consider. First: the Salt Lake Valley has natural growth boundaries in the mountain ranges and the Great Salt Lake. Given these growth boundaries and the anticipated growth in population and employment, some existing suburban development will likely transition to more urban development. Second: West Valley City is strategically located close to the airport and downtown Salt Lake City and is centrally located in the Valley with good highway access. Third: if the City wants areas along major corridors to redevelop, higher intensity development should be allowed. Redeveloping a property to the same intensity level is usually not enticing to developers since they have to acquire buildings that will be demolished.
The increase in value of the resulting new buildings needs to be substantially higher than the original buildings to offset the loss in value resulting from the demolition of the original buildings.
5.1 Goal: Promote a more urban environment along certain major corridors and at light rail stops.
5.1.1 Action: Develop ordinances that encourage higher intensity, more urban development along Redwood Road, 3500 South east of Mountain View Corridor, the Hunter Town Center area and near LRT stops with design standards geared toward urban development.
3500 South at Market Street before and after the reconstruction of 3500 South. The Embassy Suites Hotel was built in 2012
according to the standards in the new City Center Zone, which incorporated new streetscape and building standards.
Issue: Commercial Development Quality and Maintenance
Beginning in 1996, the City has made major changes in ordinances, review procedures, and City organizational structure to improve commercial development quality, property maintenance and the appearance along major streets. The following timeline outlines these changes:
1996: The Commercial Overlay Zone was adopted for the Maverik Center area.
1998: The Jordan River Overlay Zone was adopted for the River area near 3300 South.
1999: The Bangerter Highway Overlay Zone was adopted for development along the north portion of Bangerter Highway. Also, a streetscape ordinance was approved for the east portion of 3500 South.
2001: The parking ordinance was amended to require berming along streets and landscaping within parking lots. The Redwood Road streetscape ordinance was adopted for all property fronting on Redwood Road. Also in 2001, the sign ordinance was amended to limit pole signs to 10 acre sites and to require nonconforming signs to be replaced with conforming signs under certain conditions.
2003: The sign ordinance was amended to cap the number of billboards and to encourage the relocation of nonconforming billboards. Between 2002 and 2004 the Planning Commission began to emphasize the architectural quality of buildings during conditional use review. For example, consider the differences between the Walmart at 3100 South built in 2002 and the Walmart at 6200 South built in 2004.
2004: Commercial design standards for all commercial development were adopted. The 5600 West Overlay Zone was adopted for development along the north portion of 5600 West.
2006: The City Center Zone was adopted with specific form-based design requirements for the City’s planned downtown area.
2008: A new department, Community Preservation, was formed with the primary focus of improving property maintenance.
2010: The City passed ordinances that further restricted the allowed locations for sexually oriented and outcall businesses, updated provisions for monument signs that reduced allowed sizes and amended fencing/hedge standards along arterial streets.
2013: The City passed ordinances that further restricted the allowed locations for pawn shops and updated the Commercial Overlay Zone (now called the Decker Lake Station Overlay Zone).
Commercial development along a busy arterial. Improved landscape standards and proper maintenance can vastly
improve the look of commercial properties.
The ordinances listed above have made a difference in new commercial development; however, it takes time for such ordinances to make a more consistent, visible impact. While there have been major improvements to commercial development, there is still room for improvement. Some existing commercial properties are not properly maintained and/or are underutilized. As older development along commercial corridors is remodeled or upgraded, the City should work to bring these properties up to the latest standards. Where redevelopment is contemplated, existing ordinances may need revisions to yield more intense development.
Residential development quality and maintenance are addressed in the Housing and Existing Neighborhoods Chapters.
5.2 Goal: Improve commercial development property maintenance.
5.2.1 Action: Under the direction of the Community Preservation Department, coordinate enforcement efforts between Code Enforcement, Business Licensing, Legal, Building Inspections and Planning and Zoning. Enforcement should be proactive instead of just reacting to complaints.
5.2.2 Action: Review commercial properties for compliance with approved site and landscape plans and enforce deficiencies (example: landscaping shown on the approved landscape plan has died or has been removed).
5.3 Goal: Promote high quality development, reinvestment and redevelopment along commercial major corridors and near light rail stations.
5.3.1 Action: Develop small area plans as time and resources permit for specific corridors or other areas in the City where specific design standards are desired.
5.3.2 Action: Implement small area plans through form-based zoning tailored to each corridor or location.
5.3.3 Action: Amend ordinances to improve the City’s ability to bring nonconforming sites into compliance.
5.4 Goal: Promote attractive, water-efficient landscaping and efficient landscaping review.
5.4.1 Action: Amend landscaping standards to provide incentives to developers to install the type of landscaping and site amenities that the City desires. Examples of desired landscaping amenities would be drip irrigation with substantial live plant material, building placement close to the street, benches and patios.
5.4.2 Action: Where appropriate, consider wider park strips to allow more efficient lawn watering, offer more tree variety, and provide a more attractive streetscape.
5.4.3 Action: Explore ways to preserve mature trees on vacant parcels or on land to be redeveloped.
5.4.4 Action: Encourage enhanced or additional landscaping adjacent to or within very large parking areas.
Issue: Civic Improvement Quality
Along with improvements on private property, public property or civic improvements have a significant impact on the aesthetics of a street. Such civic improvements include park strips, street trees, street and sidewalk lighting, and sidewalks. The size, quality, and placement of these improvements can make a substantial difference in the quality of a street’s appearance and appeal for pedestrians. Wide streets with little or no park strip and no street trees or landscaping can be uninviting or even intimidating for pedestrians.
5.5 Goal: Promote quality streetscapes on major streets.
5.5.1 Action: Where possible, increase park strip widths beyond five feet.
5.5.2 Action: Enforce maintenance of required park strip trees. To ensure proper maintenance, the City should consider maintaining these trees in certain locations.
5.5.3 Action: Consider center landscaped medians to improve the aesthetics and capacity of major streets.
5.5.4 Action: Work with UDOT when state roads are being widened or otherwise modified to improve the streetscape. Where necessary, the City should fund streetscape enhancements.
5.5.5 Action: Amend ordinances to emphasize the following design considerations: high quality and consistent street furniture like bus stops and trash cans, burying overhead power and utilizing different pedestrian accommodations such as varied paving treatments.
5.5.6 Action: Whenever a City street is being widened or reconstructed consider functional as well as aesthetic upgrades including new street lights, complete streets principles, landscaping enhancements, fencing replacement for back facing lots, etc.
Looking south at the intersection of Constitution Blvd. and 3500 South, before and after the reconstruction of both roads
and redevelopment of the Valley Fair Mall.
General Plan - Introduction
General Plan - Administration
General Plan - Land Use
General Plan - Economic Development
General Plan - Urban Design
General Plan - Existing Neighborhoods
General Plan - Housing
General Plan - Community Facilities
General Plan - Parks, Recreation, and Culture
General Plan - Transportation
General Plan - Major Street Plan
General Plan - Definitions
Truth in Taxation
Contact Us
Jobs
Service Request
Police
Fire
Contact Us
City Hall
3600 South Constitution Boulevard
West Valley City, UT 84119
Phone:
801-966-3600
TTY: 385-316-8658
Quick Links
Salt Lake County Notice of Proposed Tax Increases FY 26 - 27
City Election Information
Permit Requirements
Maps
City Code
/QuickLinks.aspx
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
/QuickLinks.aspx
Site Links
Home
Site Map
Accessibility
Copyright / Privacy / Cookies
Employee Intranet
/QuickLinks.aspx
Government Websites by
CivicPlus®
Loading
Loading
Do Not Show Again
Close
Arrow Left
Arrow Right
[]
Slideshow Left Arrow
Slideshow Right Arrow
