General Plan - Community Facilities | West Valley City, UT - Official Site
Skip to Main Content
Search
Government
Services
Our Community
Business
How Do I…
Home
Government
Department List
Community Development
Planning & Zoning
General Plan
General Plan - Community Facilities
General Plan - Community Facilities
8-1 Introduction
Section 10-9a-406 of State Code states: “After the legislative body has adopted a general plan, no street, park, or other public way, ground, place, or space, no publicly owned building or structure, and no public utility, whether publicly or privately owned, may be constructed or authorized until and unless it conforms to the current general plan.” Streets are addressed in the Transportation Chapter and Parks are addressed in the Parks, Recreation and Culture Chapter. This Chapter addresses all other community facilities including public safety and storm water.
8-2 Vision
West Valley City will construct new community facilities and enact new ordinances and policies to support new development and improve the quality of life of residents.
8-3 Issues, Goals and Actions
Issue: Community Growth and Public Safety
The City recently completed an Impact Fee Facilities Plan for public safety wherein it was found that the City has about 147 square feet of fire facilities per 1,000 residents and about 255 square feet of police facilities per 1,000 residents. Upon buildout, the City will need 3,675 square feet of new fire facilities and 6,375 square feet of new police facilities to maintain the same level of service. With fire facilities, the most pressing need is a new fire station in the southwest portion of the City. While the Fire Department has developed interlocal agreements with surrounding communities and the County to cover more distant areas, the City desires to become more self-sufficient by servicing new neighborhoods with City facilities. For police, the City’s public safety building was originally a private office building not designed or built for public safety. The Police Department is in need of additional space that is designed for public safety.
In addition to new facilities needed to maintain the City’s level of service for public safety, staff has been researching the feasibility of constructing a metro crime lab and gun range to provide services not currently offered in the City.
8.1 Goal: Service new and existing development by constructing new public safety facilities.
8.1.1 Action: Build a new fire station in the southwest portion of the City.
8.1.2 Action: As development continues in the northwest portion of the City, consider a new fire station to service this area.
8.1.3 Action: Replace the existing public safety building with a larger, state-of-the-art facility.
8.1.4 Action: Build a new Parks Maintenance building at the site of the City Shop, and replace the existing shared facility.
8.2 Goal: Improve public safety support services and training opportunities.
8.2.1 Action: Continue to pursue the development of a metro crime lab within the City.
8.2.2 Action: Develop a gun range within the City.
Issue: Storm Water Management
Nonpoint source pollution is a major contributor to water quality problems. As rainfall or snow melt moves over the ground, it picks up natural and human-made pollution, finally depositing it into rivers, lakes and wetlands. Water pollution is an issue locally, as well as nationally. Sections of the Jordan River have been identified, by the State of Utah, as an impaired water body. Environmental concerns and pollution prevention are increasingly important aspects of municipal development and operational planning.
Federal and State environmental regulations require the City to manage storm runoff to reduce water pollution. West Valley City is authorized to discharge storm runoff to waters of the State of Utah by permit from the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. The permit requires the City to develop, implement and enforce a Storm Water Management Plan to reduce the discharge of pollutants from the City’s drainage system.
One element of the City’s Storm Water Management Plan addresses long-term management of runoff from new developments and redevelopment areas. The development/redevelopment program must have requirements or standards to ensure that any storm water controls or management practices for new development and redevelopment will prevent or minimize impacts to water quality.
Given topographical and infrastructure constraints, not all areas of the City will be serviced by the City’s storm drain system. The approach to storm water management should vary between those areas serviced by the City’s storm drain system and those that are not.
8.3 Goal: Reduce discharge and improve the quality of storm water by requiring postdevelopment
storm runoff to mirror pre-development storm water runoff characteristics.
8.3.1 Action: For areas not served by a City drainage system and where no drainage system is planned, adopt an ordinance designating areas where storm runoff must be managed on site by infiltration, evapotranspiration, rain water harvesting, or other Low Impact Development (LID) Best Management Practices (BMPs).
8.3.2 Action: For areas served by a City drainage system, adopt an ordinance with storm water management requirements encouraging use of LID structural BMPs, for specific development types, including large parcels of raw land, infill development and redevelopment.
8.4 Goal: Identify and preserve sensitive areas, in the City that provide important water quality
benefits, such as Jordan River riparian areas.
8.4.1 Action: Adopt an ordinance that preserves and protects sensitive areas.
8.4.2 Action: Continue to acquire available property in sensitive areas for public open space and watershed protection, as funding allows.
General Plan - Introduction
General Plan - Administration
General Plan - Land Use
General Plan - Economic Development
General Plan - Urban Design
General Plan - Existing Neighborhoods
General Plan - Housing
General Plan - Community Facilities
General Plan - Parks, Recreation, and Culture
General Plan - Transportation
General Plan - Major Street Plan
General Plan - Definitions
Truth in Taxation
Contact Us
Jobs
Service Request
Police
Fire
Contact Us
City Hall
3600 South Constitution Boulevard
West Valley City, UT 84119
Phone:
801-966-3600
TTY: 385-316-8658
Quick Links
Salt Lake County Notice of Proposed Tax Increases FY 26 - 27
City Election Information
Permit Requirements
Maps
City Code
/QuickLinks.aspx
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
/QuickLinks.aspx
Site Links
Home
Site Map
Accessibility
Copyright / Privacy / Cookies
Employee Intranet
/QuickLinks.aspx
Government Websites by
CivicPlus®
Loading
Loading
Do Not Show Again
Close
Arrow Left
Arrow Right
[]
Slideshow Left Arrow
Slideshow Right Arrow
