8 Moderate Income Housing
Taylorsville encourages housing choices that are varied and affordable for residents through all stages of life, that
provide access to opportunities, are interconnected to multi      -modal transportation options, and preserve the unique
character      of the   community.
 Taylorsville General Plan Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                            8-1
     “It’s hard to argue that housing is not a fundamental human
     need. Decent, affordable housing should be a basic right for
           everybody in this country. The reason is simple: without
                         stable shelter, everything else falls apart.”
                                                                                                                          Matthew Desmond
                                                                                                                            Author and Professor
    Matthew Desmond is a sociology professor at Princeton University. In 2016 Desmond authored Evicted: Poverty and Profit in the American City. Among
                       other national awards, Evicted won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction and the 2016 National Book Critics Circle Award.




Taylorsville General Plan    Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                             8-2
                       Taylorsville General Plan
                       Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing
Chapter 8 Contents:
8.1     Housing Programs
8.2     Land Use Transitions and Zoning Ordinances
8.3     Transportation Infrastructure
8.4     State Moderate Income Housing Requirements
Over the last decade, housing shortages and housing affordability have emerged as the most                    Year          Additional Households Relative to Additional
prominent land use issues in the Salt Lake metropolitan region. Rapid population growth                                      Housing Units Constructed (2010 to 2020)
coupled with decreased home building—driven by the “Great Recession”—has led to shortages                    2010                                   +15,381
and the resulting escalation of home prices in the Salt Lake regional market. Population                     2011                                   +13,530
projections that estimate continued rapid growth, coupled with decreasing household sizes, and
                                                                                                             2012                                    +9,079
a scarcity of vacant land in Salt Lake County, will continue to make housing availability and
affordability a major issue in Taylorsville, the metro area, and the entire State. Housing                   2013                                    +2,622
affordability has reached such a crisis level that the Utah State Legislature in 2018 (Senate Bill 34)       2014                                    +1,400
required that cities in the State address moderate income housing (defined in Utah Code as                   2015                                    +6,857
“housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by households with a gross income equal to or                    2016                                    +4,362
less than 80% of the median gross income for households of the same size in the county in
                                                                                                             2017                                    +2,998
which the city is located.”) in their general plans. The Legislature updated and further defined
                                                                                                             2018                                    -1,106
requirements for moderate income housing in municipal general plans in 2022 with the passage
of House Bill 462. The new statute requires communities to plan for housing for residents of all             2019                                    -3,149
income levels; coordinate planning efforts for moderate income housing with transportation and               2020                                    -7,485
other land uses; and enable people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in             Total                                  +44,489
all aspects of neighborhood and community life. Additionally, cities must incorporate at least
                                                                                                         Table 8.0.1
three “moderate income housing strategies” identified in State Code 10-9a-403 (2)(b)(iii) and (iv)
                                                                                                         Cumulative Shortage of Housing Units in Utah
that support affordable housing and report annually on their progress implementing their                 As a percentage of population, Utah was the fastest
Moderate-Income Housing plans (see section 8.4 State Moderate Income Housing                             growing state in the country from 2010-2020. Construction
Requirements).                                                                                           of new housing units, however, didn’t keep pace. Despite
                                                                                                         major strides to build new housing in the last part of the
                                                                                                         decade, the State still created 44,489 more households than
                                                                                                         housing units.
                                                                                                         Source: Kem Gardner Policy Institute, University of Utah

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                                        8-3
As Taylorsville approaches full build-out, developing additional housing becomes particularly
challenging. However the City remains committed to studying opportunities for future
redevelopment that will reduce housing cost-burden, improve air quality, and provide residents
with a better community experience. Due to the lack of greenfield development opportunities,
future housing development will be centered around infill and the transitions of existing land
use. The City has embarked on several long-range planning projects to examine the
redevelopment of the community. Each one of the studies looks at opportunities for future land
use transitions with the intent of reducing the cost burden for Taylorsville residents through
integrated community design, utilization of multi-modal transportation options, and
development centered around access to opportunities, housing choices, and a diversified job
market.

2019 City of Taylorsville Moderate Income Housing Plan
The Moderate Income Housing Chapter of the General Plan is supplemented by the City of
Taylorsville 2019 Moderate Income Housing Study completed by BBC Research and Consulting
of Denver, CO. This study, commissioned in 2018 at the request of Taylorsville City, was adopted
in 2019 to address requirements of SB34—Affordable Housing Modifications from the 2018
Utah legislative session. The 2019 Moderate Income Housing Study is hereby re-adopted as an
addendum to the updated Moderate Income Housing Plan to support the findings, goals,
objectives, and strategies of this document.




                                                                                                   Illustration 8.0.2
                                                                                                   City of Taylorsville 2019 Moderate Income Housing Study
                                                                                                   Commissioned by the City of Taylorsville in 2018, the City of
                                                                                                   Taylorsville 2019 Moderate Income Housing Study completed
                                                                                                   by BBC Research and Consulting is adopted as an
                                                                                                   addendum to Chapter 8—Moderate Income Housing.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                              8-4
8.1 Housing Programs
Goal: Promote, preserve and develop community partnerships to facilitate
the creation and retention of moderate -income housing stock.
Community Partnerships
Using Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) and HOME funds granted to the City from
the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the City funds several low to
moderate-income housing programs. These programs are targeted at residents 80% or below
AMI and are intended to keep residents in their homes while also preserving the unique
character of Taylorsville neighborhoods. The City utilizes CDBG and HOME funds for the
following programs:
• Housing rehabilitation—organizations like ASSIST and Community Development
     Corporation of Utah (CDC) provide housing rehabilitation programs for low- to moderate-
     income residents. Through the Salt Lake County Consortium, the City also has access to
     County-funded housing rehab programs like Green and Healthy Homes, Habitat for
     Humanity, and NeighborWorks Salt Lake. Additionally, the City funds the Idea House
     program administered by CDC, which is a program that purchases blighted homes and
     renovates them using energy efficient materials to reduce the overall monthly payment for
     the homeowner. The City’s housing rehab programs help low- to moderate-income
     residents stay in their homes while also preserving the character of the City’s neighborhoods.
• Down Payment Assistance—the City has partnered with CDC to offer down payment
     assistance to first time home buyers looking to purchase homes in Taylorsville. This program
     provides an extra incentive for residents 80% AMI or below to be able to purchase a home.        Illustration 8.1.1
     While this program is a great resource, the City has seen challenges with residents being        Plymouth View Senior Apartments.
     able to utilize the funding because of the rising costs of housing along the Wasatch Front.      Constructed in 2011, the Plymouth View Senior Apartments,
     Additionally, as demonstrated in this report, there is a shortage of homes that moderate-        located at 4764 South Plymouth View Drive, is a LEED
     income families can afford, and those homes only stay on the market for several days.            certified 65-unit project developed and managed by the
                                                                                                      Utah Non-profit Housing Corporation. Apartments within
The City of Taylorsville utilizes the resources of Housing Connect, formerly the Housing Authority
                                                                                                      the complex are reserved for residents aged 62 and above
of the County of Salt Lake (HACSL). Housing Connect has 32 units of public housing located in         with an income of 50% or less of the area median income.
Taylorsville and provides rental assistance to another 154 households under the Section 8             Project partners included the City of Taylorsville (land
Housing Choice Voucher program. All households are extremely low-income, earning on average           donation), Salt Lake County, Olene Walker Housing Loan
$13,000 per year. The organization has recently gone through an extensive process with the US         Fund, and the US Department of Housing and Urban
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to transition its public housing portfolio          Development.
to a more stable structure, through Disposition and Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD)
programs. Taylorsville has met with Housing Connect to monitor this process and support it
where it is appropriate.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                              8-5
Moderate Income Housing Objective 8.1.1 Develop and maintain strong
community partnerships that help provide housing options for all residents
despite age, income, race, or ability.

Actions:
A 8.1.1 (a):   Develop a marketing plan for housing programs that can be provided to
               community-based partners.
A 8.1.1 (b):   Create an inventory of housing programs and make that information readily
               available to real estate agents and to existing and potential residents seeking
               homeownership opportunities, housing rehabilitation services and rental
               assistance.
A 8.1.1 (c):   Purchase, rehab and sell homes to residents 80% AMI or below through the City’s
               Idea House program.
A 8.1.1 (d):   Assist income eligible first-time homebuyers in a purchasing homes in Taylorsville
               through the Down Payment Assistance program.
A 8.1.1 (e):   Maintain a close partnership with Housing Connect (formerly the Housing
               Authority of Salt Lake County) to facilitate rental assistance vouchers or other
               eligible programs to residents.
A 8.1.1 (f):   Work with community-based partners to develop a Taylorsville specific marketing
               policy.


Policies and Best Practices:
P 8.1.1 (a):   Promote an understanding of housing needs regardless of income, age and ability.
P 8.1.1 (b):   Encourage and support community partnerships through funding resources,
               resource collaboration and marketing.
P8.1.1 (c):    Support the development of new and innovative strategies by community partners
               to assist residents in obtaining housing choice while minimizing housing cost
               burden.


Incentives
The City of Taylorsville, in conjunction with the State of Utah, Salt Lake County and other
partners, have several incentive-based programs to assist in the development and retention of
the moderate-income housing stock. Incentives and financing programs are an important tool
that can be used by the City and the development community. These incentives or programs
that are available in the City or can be implemented by the City are outlined in detail below:



Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                      8-6
•   Community Reinvestment—In August 2019 the Redevelopment Agency of the City of
    Taylorsville passed Resolution RDA 19-04 “A Resolution of the Redevelopment Agency of
    Taylorsville City Board Authorizing the Use of Housing Funds.” This resolution follows the
    statutory framework outlined in UCA §17C-1-412 (1)(a) that states a Community
    Reinvestment Agency shall use twenty percent (20%) of Tax Increment from Urban Renewal
    Project Areas and Project Areas where blight was found as approved in the Project Area Plan
    and Budget for housing within the Project Area or affordable housing within the boundaries
    of the City. Resolution RDA 19-04 further reinforces the RDA’s existing policy that was
    developed in 2008 with the formation of the first project area in Taylorsville that the City will
    continue using the 20% housing set aside according to statutory requirements and to attract
    additional investment in the City. The Tax Increment can be used on the items outlined
    below and in Resolution RDA 19-04, but are not limited to:
         Replacement housing units,
         Planned and proposed housing, affordable housing, or income targeted housing,
         Student housing,
         Mobile home park resident housing,
         Debt service for bonds to build housing and units, or
         Other allowed housing purposes.
•   Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC)—LIHTC is a federal low-income housing tax credit
    program that will provide a subsidy for the construction of affordable rental units serving
    residents at 60% area median income or below. Developers can utilize a competitive 9%
    credit or a 4% IRS credit. The Utah Housing Corporation manages the LIHTC program in
    Utah and ensures compliance with IRS requirements and long-term deed restrictions. LIHTC
    has been a successful tool used on a national and local level to build and sustain the
    moderate-income housing stock.
•   Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund (OWHLF): The OWHLF develops housing that is
    affordable to very low-, low-, and moderate-income households as defined by HUD.
    OWLHF offers financial assistance for the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of
    multi-family housing. The Fund has resources to help disabled residents with financial
    and mortgage assistance.
•   Density Bonus—Density bonus programs can be a resource used by developers to
    leverage additional units over what typical zoning standards allow. Density bonuses are
    also commonly used to complement the use of LIHTEC tax credits. A density bonus can
    provide an increase in the number of dwelling units per acre, or overall height or floor
    area ratio with the ultimate goal of more units being built on a single parcel. These
    programs allow for a percentage of increase in baseline permitted density in exchange
    for affordable housing units.


Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                          8-7
•   Land Acquisition—Many communities use land acquisition as a means to incentivize
    developers to create moderate-income housing stock. This tool creates a public-private
    partnership in which the City owns land and, through a competitive process, “grants”
    the land to a qualified developer to build a housing product that addresses the needs of
    the community. This program helps reduce the parcel purchase cost for the developer
    and is a mechanism to help the overall affordability of the project.
•   Bonding for Infrastructure Development-- Some communities use this tool to accelerate
    installation of or reconstruction of above and underground utilities and infrastructure.

Moderate Income Housing Objective 8.1.2: Create and utilize existing programs to
incentivize the development community to create moderate-income housing and
to potentially reduce development costs associated with housing production.

Actions:
A 8.1.2 (a):   Develop a best practice guide on housing incentive programs supported by the
               City.
A 8.1.2 (b):   Market incentive programs to developers and provide resources to developers to
               leverage those programs.
A 8.1.2 (c):   Consider strategic acquisition or rezoning of property within the City that can be
               used for the development of mixed-use and mixed-income developments.
A 8.1.2 (d):   Develop and present for consideration to the Taylorsville Planning Commission
               and City Council an ordinance amendment or official policy of the city that:.
               • Offers density incentives for multi-family residential projects that include a
                  minimum number of targeted units to residents at 50% AMI or below.
               • Requires any multi-family project that receives a City incentive to dedicate a
                  minimum number of units to residents at 50% AMI or below.
               • Establishes minimum affordable housing requirements for all new multi-family
                  projects.
               • Clarifies criteria for utilizing and prioritizing incentive based programs for
                  housing.
               •   Requires all new multi-family developments within 1/2 mile of a Major Transit
                   Investment Corridor to have a minimum percentage of units dedicated to
                   residents at 50% AMI or below.
A 80.1.2 (e): The RDA will continue to track, set aside, and use the 20% housing TIF allocation as
              authorized by State Code and City Ordinance.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                       8-8
Policies and Best Practices:
P 8.1.2 (a):   Encourage the utilization of LIHTC for the development of moderate-income
               housing in the City targeting populations 50% AMI or below.
P 8.1.2 (b):   Promote the utilization of incentive-based programs for the development of
               moderate-income housing in Taylorsville.
P 8.1.2 (c):   Utilize State and County resources to further the development of moderate-income
               housing in Taylorsville .
P 8.1.2 (d):   Consider policy changes that would allow for an expediated review process for
               projects that focus on moderate income housing.

Preserve Existing Housing Stock
The preservation of existing housing stock and community character is of utmost importance to
the City and its residents. Maintaining the existing housing stock allows residents to age in place
and provides housing choice for residents through all stages of life. Additionally, ensuring that
low to moderate-income residents have the resources needed to assist with housing
rehabilitation projects is an important resource for the City to provide. Neighborhoods are the
fabric of a community and are a critical component to preserving the character of the City.
Moderate Income Housing Objective 8.1.3: Preserve the character of Taylorsville
neighborhoods by maintaining and rehabilitating existing housing stock to ensure
housing options for residents through all stages of life.

Actions:
A 8.1.3 (a):   Develop a city ordinance that requires a Taylorsville specific relocation plan for any land
               use transition that impacts the moderate-income housing supply.
A 8.1.3 (b):   Evaluate a city-run program that would provide design standards, guidelines, and
               assistance for home rehab projects.
A 8.1.3 (c):   Perform an assessment of the City’s existing housing stock to identify neighborhoods that
               would benefit from housing rehabilitation programs.
A 8.1.3 (d):   Evaluate city ordinances, standards, and regulations to determine if there are barriers to
               maintaining and improving the City’s existing housing stock.

Policies and Best Practices:
P 8.1.3 (a):   Help maintain existing moderate income housing stock through community
               partnerships.
P 8.1.3 (b):   Ensure that all housing programs enacted by the City preserve and/or enhance the
               quality and/or unique character of existing Taylorsville neighborhoods.



Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                               8-9
8.2 Land Use Transitions and Zoning Ordinances
Goal: Implement land use transitions and zoning ordinances that support a
diverse housing stock that facilitates the needs of Taylorsville residents
through all stages of life.
As population continues to increase, the demand for housing will continue to rise and infill rede-
velopment will be the foundation of future land use transitions in the City. Additionally, the City
will continue to see a rise in the number of seniors with the aging of its largest age cohort—
residents between the age of 35 and 54 years. With two higher education facilities in Taylorsville,
it will be important to provide housing and resources for the students attending Salt Lake Com-
munity College and the Utah State University Extension. With these factors in mind, it will be im-
perative that the City works closely with developers to ensure that future land use transitions
increase the moderate-income housing stock, support home ownership, and reduce the rental
gap. Land use transitions that impact existing housing stock should have a Taylorsville specific
relocation plan that meets the housing needs of the displaced residents.
It is imperative that the City has zoning ordinances and land use designations in place that facili-
tate the type of development Taylorsville residents expect and enjoy, while also ensuring an ade-
quate housing stock that provides for a variety of future housing options. The City will need to
review existing development ordinances to ensure that they provide flexibility, options, and op-
portunities to address infill redevelopment on a case-by-case basis. In the development of the
Moderate-Income Housing Plan, current zoning ordinances and the Zoning Map were reviewed
to determine any barriers to the development of moderate-income housing. No impediments
were found. However, the City will continue to amend ordinances and land uses to ensure it is
staying competitive in the development market.
Moderate Income Housing Objective 8.2.1: Develop and maintain a vision for fu-
ture land use transitions and ensure the City’s municipal code allows for the tran-
sitions and housing stock that meet the needs of Taylorsville residents.

Actions:
A 8.2.1 (a):   Annually review ordinances, codes, regulations, and the permitting process to eliminate
               requirements that discourage a diversity of housing types in the City.
A 8.2.1 (b):   Conduct developer, builder, and stakeholder focus groups to discuss barriers to affordable
               housing development and what role the City should play in facilitating development and
               redevelopment.
A 8.2.1 (c):   Review standards, ordinances and criteria for the acceleration of Accessory Dwelling Units
               (ADU’s) and guest houses to allow their continued uses
A 8.2.1 (d):   Study the possibility of a legalization process for existing ADU’s and guest houses to
               recognize them to be legal non-conforming uses.
                                      [Continued on Next Page]

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                              8-10
Actions [continued]:
A 8.2.1 (e):   Study best practices from other communities with the intent to pursue enabling external
               accessory dwelling units.
A 8.2.1 (f):   Explore text amendments to the municipal code that impact minimum lot size, setbacks
               reductions, minimum house size, flag lots, and deep lots.
A 8.2.1 (g):   Annually review the Taylorsville Zoning Map to determine areas where higher density
               housing or other housing fits within the vision for the City. Specific consideration will be
               paid to major transportation corridors.
A 8.2.1 (h):   Develop a Taylorsville-specific relocation plan for any redevelopment that impacts existing
               moderate-income housing.
A 8.2.1 (i):   Continue to conduct studies and develop small area master plans for nodes throughout the
               City to better understand what land use transitions are appropriate to facilitate job creation
               and retention, economic prosperity, moderate-income housing development, and
               economic sustainability.
A 8.2.1(j):    Develop a report examining redevelopment potential of underutilized properties that
               analyzes vacancy rates, structure to land value ratio, status of delinquent property taxes, and
               potential partnerships to create mixed-income residential projects.


Policies and Best Practices:
P 8.2.1 (a):   Utilize where appropriate the Site-Specific Development (SSD) ordinance as a
               mechanism to create moderate-income housing in the City.
P 8.2.1 (b):   The City will review any proposed development, redevelopment or code
               amendment for potential impacts on housing, including potential impacts on
               special needs, elderly, or low-income populations, including if those changes could
               result in displacement.
P 8.2.1 (c):   Encourage energy efficient and sustainable development practices as a means to
               reduce monthly expenses.
P 8.2.1 (d):   As the demand for housing continues to rise, the City will continue to look for ways
               to add units to the City’s housing stock.
P 8.2.1 (e):   Continue to foster and develop relationships with the higher education facilities in
               the City to ensure student housing needs are being met.
P 8.2.1 (f):   Encourage mixed-use structures where the underlying zone supports such
               development to maximize land potential.




Taylorsville General Plan    Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                  8-11
8.3 Transportation Infrastructure
Goal: Facilitate land use transitions and infrastructure development that
promotes walkability, connectivity, and access to multi                                  -modal
transportation options that reduce transportation costs for Taylorsville
residents.

The City of Taylorsville is primarily built-out, which poses unique challenges in addressing the
development of moderate-income housing. Future housing development in Taylorsville will
include redevelopment and transitions of existing land uses. With that in mind, the City will
continue to look at factors that contribute to residents’ housing costs and mechanisms to
reduce the overall housing cost burden. Transportation costs are a major contributing factor to
monthly expenditures for Taylorsville residents.
Transportation Infrastructure :
•   Roads—The City has several large transportation projects projected in the next five years,
    one of which is the reconstruction of Redwood Road from 5400 South to 4100 South. The
    Redwood Road project will consist of reconfiguring lanes, adding bus pullouts,
    consolidating access points, widening walkways, installing a park strip with street trees, and
    adding pedestrian scale lighting. This project is important because it will facilitate the
    creation of a safer pedestrian experience on Redwood Road, which will enhance walkability
    along a key corridor in the community and will provide better access to transit opportunities
    along Redwood Road. The Redwood Road Corridor is one of UTA’s most heavily used bus
    routes in the State. Additionally, this Corridor has high rates of ADA ramp deployments.
•   Bus Rapid Transit—Taylorsville is working with UTA, UDOT, Murray, Salt Lake County, Salt
    Lake Community College, and West Valley City on the construction of the Mid-Valley
    Connector Bus Rapid Transit project. The Mid-Valley BRT as dictated on the Regional
    Transportation Plan is a BRT line that connects Taylorsville residents to the Murray Front
    Runner and TRAX station (Murray Central Station) and the West Valley TRAX and MAXX
    lines (West Valley Central Station). The BRT route in Taylorsville will have a center-running
    dedicated bus lane down 4700 South and a complete street with active transportation
    routes, wide pedestrian pathways, and safe crossings to the stations. As the BRT enters into
    the heart of the City, the bus will have a station at Salt Lake Community College and will
    continue down the 4700 South corridor to 2700 West, with stations planned by the State
    office complex. The BRT line will provide residents access to multi-modal transportation
    options through the utilization of bus, rail, bicycle, and pedestrian improvements.
    Taylorsville residents will have connectivity to a regional network of transit options, which
    will potentially help reduce household transportation costs.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                       8-12
•   Transit Oriented Development—Transit Oriented Development (TOD) is development that is
    centered around transit opportunities. TOD usually consists of high density, mixed-use
    buildings, pedestrian scale environment, walkability, connectivity, parking reductions and
    inter-modal opportunities. TOD focuses on the pedestrian rather than the auto. TOD is a
    catalyst for reducing housing cost burden from transportation costs as TOD communities
    are centered around access to transit opportunities. Additionally, TOD development typically
    allows for higher densities and is ranked high when applying for incentives.
•   Major Transit Investment Corridor—Major Transit Investment Corridors (MTIC) are a new
    tool that was included in the 2019 Housing Affordability Modifications legislation passed by
    the State Legislature. MTIC’s can consist of a public transit rail right-of-way, dedicated road
    right-of-way for the use of bus rapid transit, or fixed-route bus corridors that are subject to
    an interlocal agreement. The Wasatch Front Regional Council has identified three areas in
    Taylorsville that could be classified as MTIC. These areas include the Mid-Valley Connector
    Bus Rapid Transit, the Redwood Road fixed-bus route, and the 5400 South fixed-bus route.
•   Trails—Trails, active transportation routes, safe-walking routes to school, and connectivity to
    key destinations and nodes within the City comprise a critical component to providing a safe
    pedestrian environment that facilitates multi-modal transportation opportunities and
    reduces transportation costs. The City of Taylorsville recently participated in the Mid-Valley
    Active Transportation Plan, which is a six city plan to develop a regional active transportation
    backbone. The Mid-Valley Plan will connect Taylorsville to Murray, Millcreek, Holladay,
    Cottonwood Heights and Midvale. This plan builds upon existing regional active
    transportation plans.
Moderate Income Housing Objective 8.3.1: Invest in infrastructure that facilitates
access to multi-modal transportation opportunities and promotes walkability and
connectivity within the City.
Actions:
A 8.3.1 (a):   Pursue an interlocal agreement with the Utah Transit Authority for the designation
               of Major Transit Investment Corridors.
A 8.3.1 (b):   Seek funding for implementation of the active transportation network in
               Taylorsville.
A 8.3.1 (c):   Participate in regional discussions and planning efforts to ensure connectivity to
               surrounding communities and transit opportunities.
A 8.3.1 (d):   Plan for high density, high quality, mixed use zoning and development along
               Major Transit Investment Corridors.
A 8.3.1 (e):   Allow for parking reductions in future development along Major Transit
               Investment Corridors.



Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                         8-13
Policies and Best Practices:
P 8.3.1 (a):   Encourage pedestrian scale development along Major Transit Investment Corridors.
P 8.3.1 (b):   Ensure “complete street” development along applicable segments of the Mid-Valley
               Connector Bus Rapid Transit corridor.
P 8.3.1 (c):   Encourage moderate income housing options near planned transportation projects
               as identified on the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP).




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                    8-14
8.4 State Moderate Income Housing Requirements
Utah State Code requires that municipalities address moderate income housing in their general
plans. The Utah Legislature adopted HB462 during the 2022 legislative session which updated
previous moderate income housing provisions adopted in 2019. The code stipulates that
municipalities will facilitate a reasonable opportunity for a variety of housing, including
moderate income housing, to:
   Meet the needs of people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to live or work
    in the community, and
   Allow people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of
    neighborhood and community life.
The code also requires that municipal general plans will include recommendations to implement
three or more “moderate income housing strategies” from a menu of items conveyed in the
code [UCA §10-9a-403 (2)(b)(iii)] - see Illustration 8.4.1. The selected strategies (shown in bold in
the illustration) must also establish timelines and benchmarks for each of the chosen
recommendations. In addition, cities with fixed guideway transit systems must include additional
strategies including letter V and G, H, or Q from the list. Although Taylorsville does not currently
have a fixed guideway system, the proposed Mid-Valley Connector Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
system is expected to be complete and operational by 2025. As a result, the Taylorsville General
Plan addresses the higher standard to ensure complete compliance with the State Code at the
time operations begin on the new BRT.

Moderate Income Housing Annual Report
Upon adoption of the Moderate Income Housing Plan by the Taylorsville City Council, the City is
required to submit an annual report to the Housing and Community Development Division of the
Department of Workforce Services. The report must provide a description of each moderate income
housing strategy selected by the community for implementation and an implementation plan.
The report for each calendar year shall include:
1. A description of each action, whether one-time or ongoing, taken by the City during the
    previous fiscal year to implement the selected moderate income housing strategies;
2. A description of each land use regulation or land use decision made by the City during the
    previous fiscal year to implement the moderate income housing strategies, including an
    explanation of how the land use regulation or land use decision supports the City's efforts to
    implement the moderate income housing strategies;
3. A description of any barriers encountered by the City in the previous fiscal year in
    implementing the moderate income housing strategies;
4. Information regarding the number of internal and external or detached accessory dwelling
    units located within the City for which Taylorsville:
        1) Issued a building permit to construct, or

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                          8-15
Utah State Code Annotated §13-9a-403 General Plan Preparation (2)(b)(iii) and (iv)
   Municipalities shall include a recommendation to implement three or more of the following moderate income housing strategies:
         (A) rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate income housing;
         (B) demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that facilitates the construction of moderate income housing;
         (C) demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into moderate income housing;
         (D) identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the municipality for
             the construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing;
         (E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling units in residential zones;
         (F) zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
             centers, or employment centers;
         (G) amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit invest-
             ment corridors;
         (H) amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own vehicle,
             such as residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities;
         (I)   amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments;
         (J)   implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments;
         (K) preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by utilizing a landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant program, or,
             notwithstanding Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund;
         (L)   reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;
         (M) demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for moderate income housing;
         (N) implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality, an employer that provides contracted services to the municipality, or any other public employer that
             operates within the municipality;
         (O) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for pro-
             grams offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of
             Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by an association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11,
             Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other
             entity that applies for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate income housing;
         (P)   demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal agency
               to create or subsidize moderate income housing;
         (Q) create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act;
         (R) eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal accessory dwelling unit as defined in Section 10-9a-530;
         (S)   create a program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing;
         (T)   ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing;
         (U) develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55 years old or older;
         (V) develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1;
         (W) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and located in
             walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones; and
         (X) demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing needs of residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income,
             including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development
             in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing; and
   In addition to the recommendations required under Subsection (2)(b)(iii), for a municipality that has a fixed guideway public transit station, shall include a recommendation to implement:
         (A) the strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(V); and
         (B) a strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(G), (H), or (Q).

      Illustration 8.4.1: Moderate Income Housing Strategies from UCA §10-9a-403—General Plan Preparation. Selected strategies shown in bold.

Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                                                               8-16
        2) Issued a business license to rent
5.   A description of how the market has responded to the selected moderate income housing
     strategies, including the number of entitled moderate income housing units or other relevant
     data; and
6.   Any recommendations on how the state can support the City in implementing the moderate
     income housing strategies.

Comprehensive Land Development Code (LDC) Rewrite
In 2021 the Taylorsville Community Development Department initiated a comprehensive rewrite of
the Taylorsville Land Development Code (LDC). The LDC is a regulatory document that establishes
procedures and standards that mandate how property is used and developed in the City. The
focus of the project is to update development regulations to align with and implement the desired
built environment described in the Taylorsville General Plan and other adopted policy documents,
respond to challenges associated with high growth and development pressures, and to improve
overall code administration.

LDC Project Goals
The LDC update project is intended to support a thriving, resilient, and forward-thinking
community that will remain locally and nationally competitive. The project will establish an
updated list of zoning districts and land uses, set clear minimum quality standards for new
development, and establish efficient procedures under which proposed development applications
are considered. The project demonstrates the City’s commitment to the future and will play an
integral role in shaping the natural and built environments over the next generation. The LDC
update will be a more effective tool to help Taylorsville realize several important goals, including:
 Implementation of the Taylorsville General Plan;
 Simplification of regulations to use clear, concise and common sense language that reduces
    the need for interpretations;                                                                       Illustration 8.4.2
 Introduction of flexible tools that improve user-friendliness, including new graphics;                Land Development Code Update
 Updating procedures to support a fair, predictable, and efficient development review process;         The Taylorsville Land Development Code update is a
 Modernizing regulations to maintain a high level of quality and private investment;                   comprehensive rewrite of all zoning and development
 Updating the menu of zoning districts to encourage high-quality mixed-use development                 regulations in the City. The project was initiated in 2021
    projects where appropriate that complement existing development contexts;                           with final adoption by the City Council anticipated in mid-
 Integration of best planning and zoning practices and current trends from Utah and around             2024.
    the nation;
 Ensuring legally sound and defensible development regulations that align with state statutes
    and address the creation of non-conforming use and existing property rights; and
 Creation of development regulations that will meet the current and future needs of the City.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                                  8-17
LDC Schedule
The Implementation Strategies within Section 8.4 of the General Plan that require ordinance
amendments, such as updated regulations for ADUs, zoning regulations, etc., will be rolled into
the comprehensive LDC update. Consequently, the timing of any proposed changes will coincide
with the adoption of the updated LDC.
Like all amendments to land use ordinances, the state mandated approval process includes
review, public hearing, and formal recommendation by the Taylorsville Planning Commission
with final approval by the Taylorsville City Council. Below is the anticipated review/approval
schedule of the updated LDC:
 Completion of the final draft: 3rd Quarter 2023
 Planning Commission review: 3rd quarter 2023 through 1st quarter 2024
 Planning Commission public hearing and recommendation: 2nd quarter 2024
 City Council adoption: 3rd quarter 2024

Implementation Strategies
Strategy D
One method to reduce development costs and to encourage the construction of new moderate
income dwelling units is to subsidize construction by reducing or eliminating construction
related fees that are otherwise required by the City. Potential fee subsidies include general plan
amendment fees, rezoning fees, conditional use permit fees, subdivision fees, building permit
fees, and plan review fees. Permit fees required by other outside reviewing agencies cannot be
amended by Taylorsville City.
A significant amount of staff time and city resources are required for land use approvals and
building safety provisions, especially on large multi-family housing projects. As a result, special
consideration should be given to the financial impacts of fee waivers on development projects
to ensure the City can maintain adequate staffing and capacity.

Strategy D: Identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally
imposed by the municipality for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing.
                                           Implementation Steps                                                                            Timeline
D1. Conduct a financial feasibility study to better understand the true financial impacts on the Taylorsville    2nd Quarter 2023.
    budget of waiving development related fees.
D2. Present study findings to the Taylorsville City Council for consideration during the fiscal year 2023/2024   2nd Quarter 2023. Annual fiscal year budget discussions.
    budget discussions.
D3. Develop decision making criteria and application process for builders/developers seeking fee waivers for     4th Quarter 2023.
    the construction of moderate income housing units
D4. Develop a staff recommendation and ordinance amendment for consideration by the Taylorsville City            4th Quarter 2023.
    Council.


Taylorsville General Plan    Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                                             8-18
Strategy E
In 2012, Taylorsville was one of the first communities in the region to legalize internal accessory
dwelling units (ADUs) in single family neighborhoods. Since the adoption of it’s original ADU
ordinances, the city has continually tweaked and modified it’s ADU standards to balance
neighborhood identity with the growth of additional affordable housing units in the City—most
recently in 2021 (Ord. 21-13) to address recent amendments to State Code.
Taylorsville’s Land Development Code currently only permits ADUs internal to the home, largely
based on the form and scale of most neighborhoods in the City. There are, however, some
places within the community where external ADUs, such as casitas or apartments over a
detached garages, may be feasible and appropriate. Permitting external detached ADUs and the
circumstances where they may be suitable should be studied and explored. In order to preserve
neighborhood quality and identity, it is important to ensure that external ADUs are properly
located, scaled and be architecturally compatible with primary residential structures. Haphazard
building design for external buildings will lead to undesirable community aesthetics that could
potentially contribute to neighborhood decline.


Since 2012, and accelerating in the 2020s, dozens of new ADUs have been legally created within
Taylorsville neighborhoods. Many ADUs were also created illegally in the City without building                  Illustration 8.4.3
permits or land use approvals prior to 2012. In addition to developing policies and ordinances                  External ADU constructed over a detached garage.
                                                                                                                When constructed appropriately, detached ADUs can
intended to reduce regulations on new ADU construction, the City should also examine new
                                                                                                                provide affordable housing options in a more private
policies and safety procedures that could legalize the unlawful dwellings to ensure public safety               setting. Special consideration needs to be given, however,
and permit additional legally occupiable ADUs in the community.                                                 to ensure that external buildings are architecturally
                                                                                                                compatible and in scale with the adjacent neighborhood.

Strategy E: Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling units in residential zones.
                                    Implementation Steps                                                                               Timeline
E1. Review current internal ADU standards for potential ordinance amendments to further reduce         2nd Quarter 2023.
    regulations that could inhibit ADU construction.
E2. Develop a unit legalization policy for illegal non-conforming ADUs constructed prior to legalization 2nd Quarter 2023. Incorporate into draft LDC.
    by the city for consideration by the Taylorsville Planning Commission and City Council
E3. Research best practices, policies, and development codes from other cities to determine            2nd Quarter 2023.
    applicability of external ADUs in Taylorsville City.
E4. Develop a recommendation and proposed ordinance amendment for consideration by the                 3rd Quarter 2023 through 1st Quarter 2024. Include with draft LDC.
    Taylorsville Planning Commission regarding development standards for constructing external


E5. Present Planning Commission recommendations to the City Council for adoption.                      2nd Quarter 2024 through 3rd Quarter 2024.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                                              8-19
Strategy F
The land use market in Taylorsville, and across the region and country, is experiencing
substantial changes, primarily in the retail, office, and housing markets. Brick and mortar retail
has been dramatically impacted by on-line sales. The restaurant market, a sub-market of retail,
has been significantly impacted by Covid-19, inflation, work force, and supply chain issues. Office
has been impacted by Covid-19 and the trend towards working from home. And housing,
especially in this region, has been impacted by population growth, housing costs, and the limited
availability of vacant land. Together, these trends will add up to perhaps the most significant
transformation of land use patterns since the decades following World War II and the
suburbanization of metropolitan Salt Lake.
As commercial and office space evolves to meet current and future market trends, and the need
for affordable housing continues to escalate, many traditional shopping centers will attempt to
reinvent themselves as higher intensity, compact, mixed-use districts built in more traditional
urban forms that incorporate multiple land uses including employment, shopping,
entertainment, and housing all within close proximity to each other. The potential benefits of
compact mixed use development are many, including:
• Tax base. Combining retail tax generation with high property values, high density mixed use
    development has proven to be an advantageous type of development for the tax base of
    local governments.
• Reduction of automobile use and dependency. Placing varied land uses in closer proximity to
    each other, especially when located near regional transit systems, can contribute to shorter
    and fewer vehicle trips.
• Environmental sustainability. Attached multi-family dwelling units typically use less energy
    and water per capita than similarly sized detached dwelling units. Also, as mentioned above,
    mixed use development can also reduce automobile use and associated pollution.
• Housing Opportunities. Single use commercial places, such as shopping centers, are often
    strategically located adjacent to regional transportation systems but provide no opportunity
    for residential uses. By creating mixed use centers that include housing, more people are
    given the opportunity to live near popular transit corridors, easy freeway proximity, etc.
• More efficient use of land. By constructing taller, more compact buildings with lower parking
    standards, less land is wasted on non-productive space. This is a critical issue as Salt Lake     Illustration 8.4.4
    County approaches full build-out and available land becomes increasingly scarce.                  Transition of an obsolete shopping center.
• More efficient use of infrastructure. Constructing uses in closer proximity to each other           On May 5, 2021, the Taylorsville City Council approved a
    promotes efficiencies in infrastructure development such as roads, sewer, water lines, etc.       rezone and associated development standards that would
                                                                                                      facilitate the redevelopment of the West Point Shopping
• Physical and mental health. Compact mixed use development encourages a more active
                                                                                                      Center (above) at Bangerter Highway and 5400 South into a
    lifestyle by making places more walkable and pedestrian friendly. Numerous studies indicate       new mixed use community known as Volta. The new
    that active lifestyles not only lead to improved physical health, but mental health as well.      development will feature high-quality design and
In 2019, Taylorsville embarked on an internal study of eight commercial districts within the City     Taylorsville’s highest residential density (647 units at
                                                                                                      approximately 40 units/acre).

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                            8-20
(Taylorsville Commercial Centers Revitalization Master Plan by MHTN Architects and Taylorsville
Commercial Center Master Planning + Revitalization Study by KGRW and BCT Architects) to help
understand how these places may evolve in the coming years to not only address housing
shortages, but also improve the quality of life and tax base of the community. The findings of
the studies generally indicated that the shopping centers and commercial districts—mostly
constructed in the 1970s through early 1990s—largely didn’t conform to current and projected
shopping trends and had potential to redevelop, under certain circumstances, into high quality
mixed use centers. In May 2021, the Taylorsville City Council approved a rezone and “site-
specific” development ordinance for one of the study areas permitting the redevelopment of the
West Point Shopping Center located at the southwest corner of Bangerter Highway and 5400
South. The new development, known as “Volta”, will be a 16.5 acre high density mixed use
development comprised of five individual multi-level buildings. As approved, Volta will include
647 new dwelling units at 39.2 units per acre with potential to increase to 55 units per acre.
Phase one of the project is expected to begin construction in spring 2023 [see illustration 8.4.4].
The West Point Shopping Center, constructed in the 1980s, had once been one of the premier
regional shopping areas in the City. However, over the last 10+ years the center declined into a
mostly vacant eyesore that provided little benefit to the community. Although the primary land
use will change from commercial to mostly high density residential, the redeveloped property
will provide more benefit to the City’s tax base, aesthetic quality, and opportunities to live in a
vibrant high quality environment

Strategy F: Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed use zones near major transit
investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers.
                                       Implementation Steps                                                                              Timeline
F1. Complete station area master plans per State requirements for the Fore Lakes, Atherton, and Riverboat   4th Quarter 2023. Study to include detailed analysis of
    Road BRT stations on Taylorsville Expressway (4700 South). See Strategy V page 8-24.                    redevelopment potential and constraints.
F2. Seek funding for additional station area master plan for the 4700 South/2700 West Station based on      1st Quarter 2023.
    redevelopment potential for the vicinity.
F3. Discuss redevelopment potential with property owners in the following major commercial nodes:           4th Quarter 2024 and Ongoing.
      4100 Redwood Road                                                                                         Volta mixed use development project on the site of the
                                                                                                                    former West Point Shopping Center scheduled to begin
      4800 South Redwood Road                                                                                      construction spring 2023. Approved for 647 dwelling units.
      5400 South Bangerter Highway                                                                              Two additional mixed-use heigh density projects in
      4700 South/2700 West                                                                                         discussion phase on 4700 South adjacent to the Mid-valley
      BRT Station Area Plan Study Area.                                                                            Connector Corridor.
                                                                                                                 Preliminary discussions for a new high density multi-family
                                                                                                                    project near 5400 South Redwood Road.
F4. Update Land Development Code to facilitate approved redevelopment plans.                                As Necessary/Ongoing.
F5. Review/evaluate redevelopment proposals as they are submitted.                                          Ongoing.



Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                                             8-21
Implementation Strategies for Communities with a Fixed Guideway System
The proposed Mid-Valley Connector Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system is estimated to begin                              West Valley
                                                                                                                   Central Station
operations in 2025. A majority of the corridor, which runs from the Murray Central TRAX/                                                                                    Mixed Flow Lanes

FrontRunner Station to the West Valley TRAX Central Station, will operate within existing                                                                                   Dedicated Bus Lanes
                                                                                                                                                                            Stations
automotive travel lanes. A segment of the corridor east of Redwood Road on 4700 South
(Taylorsville Expressway) however, will operate in lanes dedicated solely to the BRT vehicles (see                                   4100 South
Illustration 8.4.5). As a result, this segment of the system is considered “fixed guideway” and
subject to the provisions UCA 10-9a-403 (2)(b)(iv) which requires the inclusion of                                                    Salt Lake
recommendations for a minimum of two additional moderate income strategies from the menu of                                          Community
                                                                                                                                       College
items in State Code. The additional recommendations must include strategy V, and G, H, and/or Q




                                                                                                                                                                                 Interstate 15
from the list identified in Illustration 8.4.1.




                                                                                                                       2700 West




                                                                                                                                                  Redwood Road
The Taylorsville General Plan recommends pursuing an analysis of Strategies G, H, and V,
discussed in more detail below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Murray Central
Strategy G                                                                                                                                                                                          Station

Zoning and development ordinances are the primary land use implementation tools available to
local governments. Zoning generally addresses underlying land use and intensity while
                                                                                                                  Illustration 8.4.5
development ordinances provide standards for new construction. When used together, these two
                                                                                                                  Mid-Valley Bus Rapid Transit Corridor.
implementation tools can provide for the highest and best use of property while maintaining                       Approximately one mile of the seven mile Mid-Valley BRT
community standards and creating the built environment envisioned in the Taylorsville General                     corridor will be in dedicated right-of-way (fixed guideway).
Plan. Great care must be utilized by community decision makers regarding zoning determinations
to not only provide an appropriate mix of land uses, but also to assure orderly growth, a stable tax
base, and respect for local community character.

Strategy G: Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed use
zones near major transit investment corridors.

                                      Implementation Steps                                                                                                       Timeline
G1. Identify in Chapter Three - Land Use of the Taylorsville General Plan, areas of the BRT transit       3rd Quarter 2023. With adoption of the Taylorsville General Plan update.
     corridor with redevelopment potential for high density transit oriented development and
     moderate income housing.
G2. Further study areas with redevelopment potential for high density transit oriented development        4th Quarter 2023.
     and moderate income housing in the Station Area Master Plans as required in Strategy V.

G3. Develop master plan implementation measures including decision making criteria for zoning             1st Quarter 2024.
    amendment applications.
G4. Amend zoning on a individual basis based on requests from private sector developers.                  Ongoing. Continual based on incoming applications.
G5. Create site-specific zoning standards that permit density levels appropriate for specific sites and   Ongoing. As development proposals are submitted.
    development proposals.




Taylorsville General Plan    Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                                                                         8-22
Strategy H
Although the automobile remains the dominant form of transportation in Taylorsville and the
larger Salt Lake metropolitan region, there is good reason to consider policies that move our
communities towards more multi-modal and pedestrian friendly places.
The impacts of automotive orientation are well documented (accidents; costs to taxpayers for new
roads, road maintenance, and traffic safety; insurance; pollution; fuel costs; etc.), but perhaps less
appreciated is the sheer amount of land that is dedicated to the automobile in the United States.
According to Strongtowns.org, surface parking lots cover more than 5% of all urban land in the
United States, which is an area larger than the states of Rhode Island and Delaware combined. In
Los Angeles, there is more land dedicated to parking than housing. It is estimated that there are as
many as two billion parking stalls in the United States for the 291 million registered vehicles. Not
only does the over abundance of parking diminish the fabric and connectivity of our cities, it also
wastes precious land (especially in landlocked places like Salt Lake County). The lack of available
land in Salt Lake County has contributed significantly to the regions housing and affordability
crisis, and will continue to do so into the future as available land becomes less and less available.
By dedicating less land area to surface parking, developers are able to increase overall densities              Illustration 8.4.6
within the same development footprint while reducing costs. Utilizing less land for parking can                 Volta Mixed-use Community.
also allow the development of other positive site features such as landscaping, community                       The Volta mixed-use community, scheduled to begin
                                                                                                                construction in the spring of 2023, utilized a reduced parking
gathering places, and other amenities.
                                                                                                                requirement of 1.5 stalls/unit to enable other desirable
                                                                                                                development features such as increased residential density,
                                                                                                                outdoor amenities, plazas, and other community gathering
                                                                                                                spaces.

Strategy H: Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential development where a resident is less likely to rely
on the resident’s own vehicle, such as residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities.

                                     Implementation Steps                                                                               Timeline
H1. Research best practices for parking standards in high density multi-family housing projects within   3rd Quarter 2023.
    1/4 mile and 1/2 mile of a public transit corridor, and senior living facilities.
H2. Develop an amendment to the Taylorsville Land Development Code concerning parking                   4th Quarter 2024. Incorporate into draft LDC.
    requirements in transit oriented development projects, and multi-family residential, mixed use, and
    senior housing zones.
H3. Present recommendations to the Taylorsville Planning Commission for consideration and                1st Quarter 2024. Include with draft LDC.
    recommendation to the Taylorsville City Council.
H4. Present Planning Commission recommendations to the City Council for adoption.                        3rd Quarter 2024.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                                          8-23
Strategy V                                                                                                                                                 BRT route
UCA §10-9a-403.1 requires that any municipality with a “fixed guideway” bus rapid transit                                                                  Stations

system constructed after June 1, 2022 complete a station area master plan adopted by the city                                                              Parcels within

council and certified by Wasatch Front Regional Council prior to the commencement of                                                                       0.25 miles


operations of the new system. The station area master plan must provide a vision and the
actions necessary to implement that vision for all parcels within 1/4 mile of any station within
the fixed guideway corridor. State Code further stipulates that the station area plan must
promote the following objectives:
    1.   Increase the availability and affordability of housing, including moderate income
         housing,
    2.   Promote sustainable environmental conditions,
    3.   Enhance access to opportunities, and
    4.   Increase transportation choices and connections.
The station area plan must also include implementation measures that identify and describe            Illustration 8.4.7
actions necessary over the next five years to carry out the plan.                                     Station Area Plan Study Area.
                                                                                                      Three stations on the Mid-Valley Bus Rapid Transit corridor
Following a public hearing and formal recommendation by the Planning Commission and                   are located on fixed guideway:
adoption of the plan by the City Council, the city must submit the completed plan to the                 1. 1300 West Station. 1300 West 4700 South
Wasatch Front Regional Council, with consultation by the Utah Transit Authority, for certification       2. Atherton West Station. 1100 West 4530 South
that the plan satisfies the requirements of State law.                                                   3. River Boat Road Station. 850 West 4430 South
                                                                                                      The area in blue represents all parcels within 1/4 mile of the
Mid-Valley Connector Bus Rapid Transit                                                                future stations. The three areas overlap to form one larger
The Mid-Valley Connector BRT is a seven-mile 15-station transit system that will operate              study area.
between the Murray Central Station and West Valley Central Station (Illustration 8.4.5) with
connections to regional TRAX and FrontRunner transit service. The project is currently in the final
stages of design with construction expected to commence in 2023 and operations beginning in
2025. The majority of the seven mile route will be on existing surface streets. On the heavily
traveled Taylorsville Expressway the system will feature center running exclusive lanes and
stations. This segment of the corridor meets the standards in State Code for “fixed guideway”
and the three stations within this area will require the development of a station area plan as
discussed above. The three stations include the 1300 West Station adjacent to the Fore Lakes
Golf Course, Atherton West Station east of the intersection of Taylorsville Expressway and West
Atherton Drive, and Riverboat Station adjacent to the main entrance of Sorensen Research Park.
The area that includes all parcels within 1/4 mile of the three stations is shown in Illustration
8.4.7. The three areas overlap creating an overall study area of approximately 633 acres and
incorporates several significant Taylorsville locations including the Fore Lakes Golf Course,
Sorensen Research Park, Meadowbrook Golf Course, and the Monte Vista, Majestic Oaks, and
Majestic Meadows mobile home communities.



Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                                        8-24
Strategy V: Develop and adopt a station plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1.
                                     Implementation Steps                                                                    Timeline
 V1. Determine Study Area                                                                      4th Quarter 2022. Step Complete.


 V2. Develop scope of services                                                                 4th Quarter 2022. Scope of services developed October and November
                                                                                               2022. Step Complete.

 V3. Seek project funding                                                                      2nd Quarter 2022 Through 2nd Quarter 2023.
                                                                                                •   $160,000 funding approved by the Taylorsville City Council for fiscal
                                                                                                    year 2023/24
                                                                                                •   Seeking funding from UTA and WFRC

 V4. Consultant services procurement; contract development                                     2nd Quarter 2023.


 V5. Plan Development                                                                          2nd Quarter 2023 Through 2nd Quarter 2024.


 V6. Stakeholder involvement                                                                   2nd Quarter 2023 Through 4th Quarter 2023.


 V7. Public open house                                                                         4th Quarter 2023.


 V8. Planning Commission public hearing and recommendation to the Taylorsville City Council.   3rd Quarter 2024.


 V9.. Final plan adjustments based on Planning Commission recommendation and public comment.   3rd Quarter 2024.


 V10. Final approval by Taylorsville City Council                                              4th Quarter 2024.


 V11. Certification by Wasatch Front Regional Council                                          1st Quarter 2025.


 V12. Implement Plan                                                                           1st Quarter 2025 and Ongoing.


 V13. Station Area Plan Updates                                                                As Necessary.




Taylorsville General Plan    Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing                                                                                                      8-25
