1 Introduction
Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 1: Introduction   1-1
    “Things worthwhile generally don’t just happen.
     Luck is a fact, but should not be a factor. Good
        luck is what is left over after intelligence and
  effort have combined at their best. Negligence or
  indifference are usually reviewed from an unlucky
      seat. The law of cause and effect and causality
   both work the same with inexorable exactitudes.
                         Luck is the residue of design.”
                                                          Branch Rickey (1881-1965)
                                                          Major League Baseball Executive
    Branch Rickey was an innovator and pioneer in the modern methods of professional baseball. Among
 other things, Rickey is credited for developing the minor league farm system and introducing the batting
   helmet. Branch Rickey is most famous, however, for breaking the color barrier in major league baseball
     when, as the general manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers, he signed Jackie Robinson to a major league
                                                                     baseball contract on August 28, 1945.




Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 1: Introduction                                                        1-2
                       Taylorsville General Plan
                       Chapter 1: Introduction
Chapter 1 Contents:
1.1       General Plan Overview
1.2       Guiding Principles
1.3       Five Fundamental Strategies
1.4       Community Context: The Taylorsville Story
1.5       Regional Context
1.6       Plan Approval and Implementation
The City of Taylorsville is at an important crossroads in it’s city history. Originally settled in the mid-
19th century, Taylorsville was primarily an agrarian community for it’s first 100 years of existence. In
the late 1950s and early 1960s, the City began to evolve into it’s second phase of development as a
suburban community of metropolitan Salt Lake City. Now, over 170 years after it’s original settlement,
Taylorsville is potentially proceeding into the early stages of it’s third major phase of development—as
a more densely populated, multifaceted community, containing a finer grain of land uses and
transportation options. As Utah and metropolitan Salt Lake City continue their rapid population
growth, developable vacant land is becoming increasingly scarce, forcing most areas on the Wasatch
Front to rethink their historic development patterns. Being an inner ring suburb of Salt Lake City with
easy access to numerous important locations within the metropolitan area, Taylorsville may be
impacted by prolonged growth even more than most places in the region. In order for Taylorsville to
continue it’s long-established quality of life, smart and consistent decisions regarding future growth
will be essential.
The primary aim of this document is to express a shared long-term vision for the community. This plan
is intended to provide direction for elected and appointed officials, residents, property owners,
business owners, city staff, design professionals, and other local leaders. The purpose of the plan is to:
▪     Articulate a comprehensive future vision of the community,
▪     Identify and understand existing conditions, challenges, and opportunities associated with the
      City, and
▪     Express policies, goals, objectives, and recommendations to assist in the implementation of the
      vision established in the plan.


Taylorsville General Plan        Chapter 1: Introduction                                                      1-3
1.1 Introduction General Plan Overview
In the twenty-five plus years since its incorporation in 1996, the City of Taylorsville has seen
significant changes and will undoubtedly see many more changes in the coming decades.
Despite the fact that the city is approaching 100% build out, Taylorsville continues to be part of
a dynamic and rapidly growing metropolitan area. Growth alone will be a catalyst for change in
all communities within the Salt Lake metropolitan area, but this region is further complicated by
a series of geographic constraints including the Great Salt Lake, Utah Lake, and the Wasatch and
Oquirrh mountain ranges. These geographic limitations combined with population growth will
result in an intensification of land uses and building types not typical of the regions history.
Growth and land use intensification will lead to more pressure on regional mobility systems,
open space, the environment, and natural resources—especially clean air and water. As the
population of Salt Lake County is projected to increase nearly 500,000 people in the next 40
years1, centrally located areas firmly engrained in the regional transportation system, like
Taylorsville, will likely experience considerable development pressure and significant future
changes.
This plan is primarily focused on development over the next 25-40 years. Although it is believed
we have reasonably accurate projections in many areas over this time period, there is still much
that is unknown about this coming time. There will be demographic changes, technology
advancements, social and cultural transformations, climate and weather deviations, economic
and market adjustments, and variations in resource availability. Many factors that will impact the
way we live and build cities in the future are still not fully understood at this time. As a result—
although this plan attempts to look decades into the future—it should be viewed as a dynamic
document that is reevaluated and updated as necessary to reflect the current state of our
civilization.
This Plan includes goals, objectives, and broad strategies as well as specific priority projects for
each individual chapter. These are designed to proactively anticipate and guide future changes
and achieve the community’s shared vision.
The Taylorsville General Plan is broad in scope and attempts to articulate the vision and values
of the community. This updated plan will provide guidance in terms of how the city will look,
feel, and function, as well as how it will provide services and manage resources. Other
community development actions, regulations, and policies, such as small area plans, capital
improvement plans, strategic planning processes, and development codes should function as
tools designed to implement the ideas and direction of the Plan.




1 Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute—University of Utah, Utah Long-Term Planning Projections—A Baseline Scenario of Employment Change in Utah
and its Counties. (January 2022)


Taylorsville General Plan                   Chapter 1: Introduction                                                                          1-4
The Plan is designed and structured to be applicable to all members of the community as a
framework for decision-making for both public and private development, programs, and
improvements.

What is a Municipal General Plan?
A general plan is a comprehensive policy document that is used to help guide a local
government in its future growth and development. In broad terms, a general plan is a document
that aims to guide and articulate a City’s future based on a shared vision of the community.
The ideas in this General Plan provide a means to enhance community identity and quality of life
for residents, increase prosperity and business development opportunities, and address city
goals within the context of this growing region.
Although many communities deal with similar issues, there is no specific template for a general
plan. Utah State Code stipulates that each municipality “may determine the comprehensiveness,
extent, and format of the general plan” [§10-9a-401 (4), Utah Code Annotated].
State Code does specify, however, that as a minimum, all general plans address transportation,
land use, moderate income housing, and water conservation. For communities with a “fixed
guideway public transit station”, the Code requires the development of a “station area plan” that
addresses land use, housing, transportation, environmental conditions, and access to
opportunity for all properties within a 1/2 mile radius of stations providing rail service, or 1/4
mile radius of stations providing bus service. A station area plan for the 1300 West, Atherton
West, and River Boat Road stations on the Mid-Valley Express Bus Rapid Transit system is
required based on the provisions of the Code and included as an addendum to Chapter 3: Land
Use of the Taylorsville General Plan.
The Taylorsville General Plan
The Taylorsville General Plan is tailored to the City’s own particular location and circumstances. It
is comprehensive in nature, and includes general policies with corresponding objectives,
recommendations, and implementation strategies.
The General Plan includes several different elements that attempt to address the community
comprehensively. While the plan is a repository for many different individual topics and
strategies, these must work together to share a collective vision for the future of the community.
Each element may have its own goals and objectives, but they cannot function independently.
Each element of the plan is interconnected, with the actions and results of one element usually
affecting or being affected by another.
As the City continues to grow and evolve, the General Plan is designed to consider all aspects of
growth and the impact it has on our neighborhoods, parks, streets, and other aspects of the
community. In order to address future growth in comprehensive terms, the General Plan is
divided into nine individual elements, including:


Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 1: Introduction                                                  1-5
   Chapter 1: Introduction. Chapter one introduces the plan and identifies several guiding
   principals and fundamental strategies intended to bring community values and consistency to
   the Plan. Chapter one also provides community context including basic demographics, history,
   and our place within the larger region.
   Chapter 2: Community Character. The Community Character element addresses an important,
   but perhaps difficult to define, component of the community—creating a unique sense of
   identity and place. Chapter 2 will address varied issues such as streetscapes, building design,
   historic preservation, and celebrating the community.
   Chapter 3: Land Use. Land Use may be considered the most essential element of a general plan
   in that it addresses the communities vision of how individual properties within the City should
   be utilized. The Proposed Land Use Map within Chapter 3 illustrates in graphic form
   recommended land uses, that when used in amalgamation, provide a proper balance of
   housing options, places to shop, employment areas, and other community uses such as parks,
   schools, and utilities.
   Chapter 4: Mobility. Providing a range of mobility options is essential to supporting the diverse
   needs of a city’s residents and visitors. Chapter 4 focuses on transportation and how we move
   from place to place, whether it is by car, bicycle, transit, or foot.
   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience. Maximizing location and opportunity will drive
   economic prosperity in the city. The Economic Development chapter is focused on building
   the City’s tax base and the redevelopment of underutilized areas to their highest and best use.
   Chapter 6: Parks, Recreation, and Open Space. Community parks are a key component of
   neighborhood quality of life and stable property values. Chapter six envisions where and how
   the City develops it’s park space and recreational amenities.
   Chapter 7: Neighborhoods. Neighborhoods provide the foundation of all cities. Maintaining
   strong, stable, and vibrant neighborhoods may be the most important thing the City can
   accomplish to ensure future stability. Chapter seven will address goals and strategies to ensure
   that Taylorsville’s neighborhoods will remain safe and desirable places to live many decades
   into the future.
   Chapter 8: Moderate Income Housing. Housing affordability has become one of the most
   pressing issues facing our society today. Escalating housing prices over the last decade has left
   many residents of the community unable to afford suitable housing. This chapter, mandated
   by state law, presents strategies to provide more housing options and reduce housing prices.
   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship. Chapter 9 focuses on various issues related to the
   natural environment including water conservation, sensitive lands, disaster recovery and
   mitigation, and natural resources.



Taylorsville General Plan    Chapter 1: Introduction                                                   1-6
Why do we have a General Plan?
The reasons for having a General Plan are both pragmatic and visionary. From the pragmatic
perspective, it is one of meeting state requirements. The State of Utah’s Land Use Development
and Management Act (LUDMA) states that each municipality shall “prepare and adopt a
comprehensive, long-range general plan for: a) present and future needs of the municipality, and
b) growth and development of the land within the municipality or any part of the municipality.”
From a visionary perspective, it is an opportunity for the community to generate ideas and
determine if they are appropriate, desirable, and achievable. If so, the plan provides a basis for
making informed decisions that will help achieve our collective vision.
All residents would like to know that their City is not making random and arbitrary decisions. The
General Plan provides for consistency by establishing a framework for decision-making for both
short and long-term issues. The plan provides guidance to the local government, private property
owners, business owners, and residents. An understanding of the long-term vision for the City is
necessary for land owners so they can make informed decisions regarding their property. The plan
also serves to educate residents and the business community by providing an understanding of
which goals the city is aiming to achieve and the decisions that are needed to support the
achievement of those goals.
Who Will Use the Plan and How?
All communities rely on many people and entities that allow it to function effectively. A general
plan provides a means for aligning the efforts of many different groups, departments, agencies,
and individuals towards a unified vision. City staff and the development community will be guided
by the plan on a consistent basis to ensure new development projects are in harmony with the
vision and direction articulated in the plan. Likewise, city administration and elected and
appointed officials will use the plan to create policies, adopt standards, and develop strategic
initiatives to move the city towards the same unified vision. Perhaps most importantly, however,
the Plan offers information to the residents of the community concerning the stated direction of
the City and provide a forum for dialogue, participation, and modification.




Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 1: Introduction                                                1-7
1.2: Introduction Guiding Principles
The following Guiding Principles are fundamental beliefs meant to inspire, influence, and
articulate shared community values. They establish the framework for the ideas and concepts
integral to this Plan and serve as touchstones during the process to develop and refine goals,
objectives, strategies and best practices. These key terms represent the core priorities for the
future of the development of city and how it intends to respond to growth and change. These
principles encourage balanced, integrated multi-disciplinary approaches to future investment
and future visions of the community.

Guiding Principle #1: Balance, Diversity, and Social Equity
Offer choices and options in housing, transportation, recreation, land use, and cultural activities;
afford justice, impartiality, and fairness to all.
Taylorsville Will:
• Provide for a variety of housing types, sizes and affordability.
• Ensure that all modes of transportation – driving, walking, biking, transit – are
   accommodated for throughout the community.
• Provide park, recreation, and open space opportunities throughout the community for all
   ages and abilities.
• Establish places where varying types of businesses and commercial uses can thrive.
• Encourage and support a variety of community and cultural activities and events.
• Ensure everyone within the community has equal access to economic, legal, and political
   opportunity.
• Proactively seek input from a diversity of voices
• Seek out and abolish barriers to inclusivity.

Guiding Principle #2: Stewardship
Provide a nurturing approach to our natural and built environments.

Taylorsville Will:
• Protect existing natural open space areas from development or degradation.
• Protect our historic resources and assets.
• Thoughtfully integrate the natural environment into the built environment.
• Encourage citizen participation in caring for natural areas such as the Jordan River Parkway.
• Maintain public investments such as parks, infrastructure, and municipal facilities.
• Encourage high quality, sustainable construction practices.
• Nurture neighborhoods to ensure high quality of life and stable property values.
• Utilize water and other natural resources efficiently and reduce waste.
• Establish strategies to help mitigate climate change.


Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 1: Introduction                                                1-8
Guiding Principle #3: Resilience
The ability to prosper and withstand challenges over time, adapting to new situations and
opportunities.
Taylorsville Will:
• Strive to create a diverse economy that can weather economic ups and downs.
• Consider how new commercial and residential developments are designed to handle market
   changes over time.
• Establish a commercial tax base that balances retail sales and land value.
• Build a multi-modal transportation and mobility system accessible to all residents.
• Continually re-invest in the city’s neighborhoods.
• Pro-actively prepare for the mitigation and recovery from natural disasters.

Guiding Principle #4: Civic Beauty and Identity
Deliver a quality public realm, impressive streetscapes, exceptional development design, and a
unique sense of place.
Taylorsville Will:
• Create beautiful, identifiable places that are sources of civic pride.
• Use streetscape design to visually integrate business districts, gateways, and transportation
   corridors.
• Encourage quality architecture and site design.
• Enhance the visual quality of neighborhoods.
• Embrace and expand public art and placemaking.
• Recognize that every project is an opportunity to improve the city.

Guiding Principle #5: Health and Mental Wellbeing
Nourishing our minds, bodies, spirit, and physical environments
Taylorsville Will:
• Emphasize a public realm where life and sense of community thrives.
• Ensure equitable access to quality green/open space. Provide a balanced distribution of park
   space within the community.
• Emphasize active transportation and recreation.
• Provide access to natural open space.
• Expand community gatherings, public involvement, educational opportunities, and shared
   activities.
• Promote civic pride.
• Embrace public art and placemaking.
• Emphasize public safety in all areas of the community.
• Support the concept of life long learning.
• Prioritize access to healthy and fresh food.

Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 1: Introduction                                             1-9
1.3: Introduction Five Fundamental Strategies
The Taylorsville General Plan identifies five fundamental strategies to provide direction and
focus to future planning and development activities within the City. The objective is that these
strategies will help set priorities, focus energy and resources, and guide land use, transportation,
economic development, and capital improvement planning as well as provide direction on
overall policy and budget decisions.

Strategy #1: Strengthen Community Identity and Character
Community identity and character promotes civic pride and leads to private investment and re-
investment. Character and identity is affected by many aspects of the community such as
architectural quality, streetscape design, city maintenance, parks and open space, signage, street
furnishings, civic buildings, and community gatherings and events. It is important to the long
term sustainability of the City that new construction and redevelopment contributes to the
overall quality of the identity and character of the city.

Strategy #2: Create Vibrant Economic Centers and Mixed Use Neighborhoods
The form and land use of commercial centers across the U.S. is changing as retail trends evolve
in response to online shopping and other market forces impacting commercial development.
Suburban commercial centers have traditionally been developed around the notion of
concentrated retail with small and medium tenants strategically placed around larger anchor
stores. Although this model hasn’t completely disappeared, the commercial real estate market is
experiencing significant changes. Demand for large retail buildings is shrinking while many areas
across the United States, metropolitan Salt Lake included, are experiencing significant housing
shortages leading to unsustainable housing cost increases. At the same time, consumers are
demanding better places that are vibrant and have higher levels of architectural and site design
quality. Successful commercial areas of the future will integrate a mix of uses with public
gathering spaces, a unique sense of place, pedestrian orientation, and be enjoyable places to
spend time. Not only will these new places increase the City’s tax base by providing retail uses
and higher land values, they will also increase the quality of life for Taylorsville residents and
visitors by providing desirable places for shopping, dining, entertainment, and... just hanging
out.

Strategy #3: Create and Maintain Distinguishable, Stable, and Desirable
Neighborhoods
Like virtually all communities, neighborhoods are the essence and foundation of the City of
Taylorsville. Maintaining Taylorsville’s neighborhoods as stable and desirable places to live is the
most important concern of the City. If Taylorsville’s neighborhoods are allowed to deteriorate



Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 1: Introduction                                                 1-10
and become undesirable places to live and invest, every aspect of the City will be compromised.
The objective of maintaining Taylorsville’s neighborhoods will become increasingly more
challenging as the City’s housing stock continues to age and requires increased maintenance
and reinvestment. Taylorsville’s desirable central location with easy access to downtown Salt
Lake City, Salt Lake International Airport, and the regional transportation system keeps the City a
highly desirable place to live. However, increased housing and transportation costs could impact
residents ability to re-invest in the city’s aging neighborhoods. Taylorsville must prioritize
strengthening neighborhoods through pro-active code enforcement, open space investment,
infrastructure maintenance, and other programs intended to preserve and improve the quality of
neighborhoods and the city’s housing stock.

Additionally, Taylorsville must address housing diversity, affordability, and future population
growth. Taylorsville residents need a variety of housing options that match the diverse
population of the city. It is also important that the city provide housing alternatives that meet
the needs of various life stages, offering citizens the option of remaining residents of the city
their entire lives.

Strategy #4: Create a Multi-Modal Community
The diversification of the City’s transportation system was one of the biggest concerns expressed
by area residents during public open house meetings for the General Plan update. Citizens
expressed frustrations over how much of their community was designed around and dominated
by the regional automotive transportation system. Although being tied into the automotive
network is considered essential, residents felt the transportation system in the City was too
dominated by large and congested roads that compromised conditions for other modes of
travel, such as biking, walking, and taking transit. Residents expressed a desire for active mobility
options including trails, better sidewalks, and bike lanes. Additionally, residents expressed a
desire for commercial areas within the City to be more accessible by foot and the areas within
centers to be better designed around the needs of pedestrians and cyclists. Strategy #4
promotes the idea that the City should adopt policies and look for ways to improve the multi-
modal nature of the City’s transportation system by encouraging fewer and shorter automotive
trips while embracing new connections to the regional transit system, improving the pedestrian
network, and creating environments that address the comfort, safety, and enjoyment of
bicyclists.
Strategy #5: Promote Public Safety
Promoting public safety involves a multifaceted approach to community development, including
preventative measures, responsive actions, and collaborative strategies. Enhancing public safety
in Taylorsville will involve many diverse and varied actions, including such things as roadway and
sidewalk design, building construction methods, and partnering with public safety agencies like
Taylorsville Police and Unified Fire Authority. Maintaining the safety of the public is the highest


Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 1: Introduction                                                  1-11
1.4: Introduction Community Context: The Taylorsville Story
Remembering the Past
Shortly after the Mormon pioneers arrived in the Salt Lake Valley in 1847, men on horseback
began exploring the southern and western valley. On one of these trips, pioneer Joseph Harker
discovered the fertile soils along the Jordan River and in fall of 1848, moved west with his family
and settled on the banks of the river. In January, 1849 the Harkers crossed the frozen Jordan
River at about 3300 South and were joined by Samuel and John Bennion and their families,
Thomas Mackey, Thomas Tarbet, William Blackhurst, William Farr, and John Robinson. This
became the first settlement in “Over Jordan,” the pioneer term for all land west of the Jordan
River. The following summer the settlement moved farther south and settled near the
confluence of the Jordan River and Big Cottonwood Creek (approximately 4200 South). This new
community became known as Fields’ Bottom. Over the next two years others moved into the
vicinity including Archibald Frame and Robert Pixton. Pixton expressed the following as his
reason for relocating from Salt Lake City: “Salt Lake City has become too large and dangerous to
raise a family in.” It was in Fields’ Bottom that the first recorded child was born west of the
Jordan River to John and Esther Bennion, named Rachael, on June 5, 1849.
Obtaining water from the river at this location proved to be difficult, so in 1850 they moved
further south to about 4800 South. This new settlement later became known as “Taylorsville”. By                          Illustration 1.4.1 Bishop Sam Bennion Farm
                                                                                                                         This 1879 oil on canvas painting by Danquart Weggeland
1851, the small community had expanded to about 15 families. John Bennion, in a letter to
                                                                                                                         (1827-1918) illustrates the Samuel Bennion farmstead
relatives in England, described the community idealistically: "If peace dwells upon this earth it is                     located on the east side of what is now 1130 West at
here," he wrote, "Here are the most prosperous people in the world, enjoying free soil, pure air,                        approximately 5150 South.
and liberty to worship our God as we please..."                                                                          Courtesy of Springville Museum of Art




                                                                    EARLY SETTLEMENT                                                                                TURN OF THE CENTURY

                 1850                                    1876                                  1880s                                   1890s                                     1906
 Joseph Harker, a member of one of         South Jordan and North Jordan        Archibald Gardner constructs a grist   The area sees increased growth and          Plymouth Elementary School is
 the original pioneer farmers to the      canals are joined, allowing for the   mill on the north side of 4800 South       the establishment of a small          constructed at the northeast corner
   area, declares in the middle of a        expansion of the agricultural        west of the Jordan River. Samuel      business district at the intersection     of Redwood Road and 4800 South
  Thanksgiving feast that they name                   community.                Bennion purchases the mill in 1885     of Redwood Road and 4800 South.           to educate the growing population
   the new settlement ‘Taylorsville’                                              naming it the Bennion and Sons                                                             of the area.
    after LDS apostle John Taylor.                                                           Flour Mill.


Taylorsville General Plan              Chapter 1: Introduction                                                                                                                                 1-12
Early skirmishes between the isolated settlers and Native Americans were so numerous that
Brigham Young suggested a fort be constructed in the area for protection. In 1853 the settlers
constructed English Fort (also known as Fort Hardscrabble) just north of the current location of
the Taylorsville Cemetery. The fort was constructed on two acres of land and included dwellings
and a combined church and school.
By 1860, the Taylorsville area had 178 residents. Settlement was centered between what is now
Taylorsville Expressway (4700 South) and the Murray-Taylorsville Road (4800 South), which was
regarded as "Main Street." East to west, most farms were between the Jordan River and
Redwood Road. In 1867, the Rock Schoolhouse, the first permanent school, was built near
Murray-Taylorsville Road and 1100 West on what was known as Pixton Hill. A small commercial
area emerged at Redwood Road and 4800 South that included the Taylorsville Mercantile, which
sold everything from needles to automobiles.
The Taylorsville-Bennion area remained largely agricultural through the 1940’s.       Most
development consisted of farm houses along unpaved roads, and population growth was slow.
Salt Lake’s suburban boom hit the community in the late 1950s. By 1960, Taylorsville-Bennion’s
population was estimated at 4,000 and had just over 600 housing units. By 1987, the estimated
population of the Taylorsville-Bennion area was 49,600 with over 16,000 housing units. Most                                 Illustration 1.4.2
housing constructed prior to 1980 was single-family. However, after 1980, there was a surge in                              English Fort Monument.
                                                                                                                            This monument on Redwood Road, erected on December
multi-family residential development throughout the City. Commercial growth was equally
                                                                                                                            28, 1941 by the Daughters of Utah Pioneers,
dramatic. In 1970, the community had about 17,000 square feet of commercial space. By 1987,
                                                                                                                            commemorates the English Fort, constructed just north of
it had about 1.8 million square feet.
                                                                                                                            the Taylorsville Cemetery.




                                               TURN OF THE CENTURY                                                                               POST WAR DEVELOPMENT

                 1913                                     1920s                                    1942                         Late 1950s/Early1960s                              1967
  The Salt Lake and Utah Railroad—            Redwood Road is rebuilt using          Camp Kearns is constructed just      Many young families begin to settle      The flagship campus of the Salt Lake
better known in Utah as “The Orem            concrete, making travel faster for    west of the present day Taylorsville   in the area as the community begins           Community College begins
Line”—extends south from Salt Lake           automobiles, wagons, and horses.      to train Air Corps personnel during     to evolve from it’s agrarian roots to        construction at 4600 South
City to Provo. The line ran parallel to                                            World War II. By 1943 Camp Kearns        a suburban bedroom community.                    Redwood Road.
Redwood Road at about 1800 West                                                   houses over 40,000 persons bringing
  with three stations in Taylorsville,                                                   large scale infrastructure
 including this one near the present                                                    improvements to the area.
            day Vista Park.

Taylorsville General Plan                 Chapter 1: Introduction                                                                                                                                1-13
Taylorsville Today                                                                                    2020 Taylorsville City Community Profile
On July 1, 1996, Taylorsville became a city following a
fourth and successful incorporation effort. Voters                                                                 Taylorsville                    Salt Lake County                     Utah
voiced by more than a 2 to 1 margin a desire to take              Population                              60,295                            1,186,421                       3,337,975
control of their community from unincorporated Salt
                                                                  Area                                    10.85 square miles                742.1 square miles              82,376.9 square miles
Lake County.
                                                                  Population Density                      5,558 persons/sq. mile            1,598.8 persons/sq. mile        40.5 persons/sq. mile
Many residents were instrumental in the effort to
incorporate. The process, which began in September                Average Age                             33.9                              33.8                            31.8
1994, involved a full year of neighborhood meetings                                                       88.1%
                                                                  High School Graduate                                                      91.8%                           93.2%
and education efforts. Community spirit and activism
prompted an unusually large number of citizens to                 Bachelor’s Degree or Higher             23.2%                             37.2%                           36.8%
run for an elected office: eleven people for mayor                Median Household Income                 $73,325/year                      $80,712/year                    $79,449/year
and 68 for five seats on the City Council. After
                                                                  Poverty Rate                            9%                                8.6%                            8.6%
incorporation, numerous Taylorsville residents
actively served on other committees and volunteer                 Households                              20,116                            420,303                         1,101,449
projects.                                                                                                 20,951
                                                                  Housing Units                                                             440,508                         1,190,154

                                                                  Owner Occupied                          70%                               66%                             70%
Following incorporation, Taylorsville embarked on a
                                                                  Persons per Household                   3.0                               2.8                             3.0
series of high profile capital improvement projects
intended to improve service delivery and the quality              Average Commute Time                    21.5 minutes                      21.3                            21.4
of life of it’s residents, including:
                                                                  Source: censusreporter.org; American Community Survey 2021
▪   Taylorsville Park expansion (1999)




    POST WAR DEVELOPMENT                                                                                   A NEW COMMUNITY

             Mid-1960s                             1970s/1980s                                  1976                                          1981                              Early 1980s
 The commercial node at 4800 South      Rapid suburban development hits          Interstate 215, also known as the                Taylorsville High School is           The community sees substantial
and Redwood Road is redeveloped into   the area as over 12,000 single-family    Belt Route, is opened in Taylorsville.         constructed at the intersection of      commercial growth as Taylorsville
  a new and “modern” suburban style     and multi-family dwelling units are                                                    5400 South and Redwood Road.           becomes the major retail hub of the
          shopping center.             constructed between 1970 and 1989.                                                                                                    southwestern valley.



Taylorsville General Plan         Chapter 1: Introduction                                                                                                                                          1-14
 ▪       Millrace park (2002)
                                                                                                                                                          Housing Types in Taylorsville
 ▪       Taylorsville Senior Center (2004)
 ▪       Taylorsville Swimming Pool (1998) and Recreation Center (2001) [in partnership with Salt                                                               Single-family        Multi-family      Mobile Homes
         Lake County Parks and Recreation]                                                                                                                          Units              Units
 ▪       Taylorsville City Hall (2003)                                                                                                                              14,725               5,460              766
                                                                                                                                          Taylorsville
 ▪       Vista Park Baseball Complex (2006)                                                                                                                        (70.3%)              (26.1%)           (3.7%)
 ▪       Redwood Road Beautification and Access Management Project [Phase 1—5400 South to the
         I-215 Interchange] (2007)                                                                                                        Salt Lake                306,381             125,768             8,091
                                                                                                                                          County                   (69.6%)             (28.6%)            (1.8%)
 Today, over 25 years after incorporation, Taylorsville has become an established and diverse                                             Utah                     852,578             246,801            33,567
 community. With a 2020 population of 60,295, Taylorsville is 13th largest city in Utah and 7th                                                                    (75.2%)             (21.8%)             (3%)
 largest in Salt Lake County. At approximately 10.85 square miles the City has a population
                                                                                                                                          Source: censusreporter.org; American Community Survey 2021
 density of 5,558 persons per square mile, which is the 2nd highest city-wide population density
 among all Utah cities2. This is largely a reflection of the near built-out status of the City                                           Illustration 1.4.3 Housing Types in Taylorsville
 combined with a high percentage of land zoned for residential uses.                                                                     Housing types and variety in Taylorsville closely follow
                                                                                                                                         county –wide trends.
 Residents of Taylorsville enjoy a high quality of living while proactively addressing challenges
 facing the City such as limited availability of undeveloped land, impacts of rapid population
 growth in adjacent communities, traffic congestion, aging housing stock, and outdated
 commercial development in several strategic locations in the City.
 In recent years the City has continued to diversify the community with several local and
 regionally significant capital projects, including:
 2
     Midvale City has the highest population density in Utah at 5,970.9 persons per square mile. Source: American Community Survey.




          A NEW COMMUNITY                                                                                                    A NEW CITY

                   1989                                        1996                             Late 1990s/Early 2000s                                 2003                                       2007
 Two-sport star and future Olympic Gold          Voters approve the creation of a         The new City of Taylorsville begins a        Taylorsville City Hall is constructed        Phase 1 of the Redwood Road
   medalist, Natalie Williams, graduates        new city, incorporating areas from          of series of capital improvement          just northeast of the intersection of             Streetscape and Access
  from Taylorsville High School. After a         three communities: Taylorsville,         projects to improve the quality of life       2700 West and 5400 South. City           Management Plan is completed. The
   celebrated college and professional         Bennion, and Kearns. City operations      for the residents of Utah’s newest city,     operations begin at the new facility         project beautifies and improves
  career, Williams is named the PAC-10                  begin July 1, 1996.               including the Taylorsville Recreation                 on April 30, 2003                 traffic flow on the busiest surface
1990s Athlete of the Decade, Utah Female                                                    Center (above), Millrace Park, and                                                        street in the State of Utah.
 Athlete of the Century, and is elected to                                                     Taylorsville Park expansion.
  the Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame.

 Taylorsville General Plan                  Chapter 1: Introduction                                                                                                                                             1-15
▪   Construction of Labrum Park (2015)
▪   Construction of Plymouth Fire Station #117 (2017)
▪   Bangerter Highway Interchanges at 6200 South (2021), 5400 South (2018) and 4700 South
    (2025)
▪   Mid-Valley Performing Arts Center [In partnership with Salt Lake County Arts and Culture]
    (2021)
▪   Construction of Centennial Plaza (2021)
▪   Redwood Road Beautification and Access Management Project [Phase 2—4100 South to
    5400 South] (2025)
▪   Mid-Valley Express Bus Rapid Transit (scheduled to begin operation 2026)

Taylorsville Tomorrow
Taylorsville’s next 20 years will potentially be the most challenging and exciting time in the City’s
history. Housing affordability, population growth, limited land availability, land use
intensification, climate change, water availability, transportation, and evolving land use markets
will all impact future development and everyday life in the City. Change is inevitable. But how
that change impacts quality of life in the City is largely within the community’s control. As
markets, technologies, and demographics change and evolve, the City must be prepared and
adaptable to change. Working together towards a shared, reasonable, and aspirational vision for
the community will help ensure that Taylorsville will continue to take advantage of it’s strategic
location, dedicated citizenry, and established government to continue to be a strong, stable, and
desirable community for many years into the future.




                         TAYLORSVILLE TODAY                                                                                TAYLORSVILLE TOMORROW?
               2019                                        2021                          Housing Affordability                  Land Use Intensification               Multi-modal Transportation
The Salt Lake County Center for the         Taylorsville’s “community family       Regional land use issues will impact     As Salt Lake County reaches build-     “Complete streets” and designing around
  Arts breaks ground on the Mid-           room”, Centennial Plaza, opens on       Taylorsville more than ever before as   out, future growth will require land           the needs of alternate forms of
   Valley Performing Arts Center           October 15, 2021. Located adjacent       the Salt Lake Metropolitan region        use intensification such as taller    transportation, such as transit, cycling, and
 southeast of Taylorsville City Hall.     to Taylorsville City Hall and the Mid-    continues to grow—perhaps none             buildings, higher residential       walking, will play a much larger role in the
                                           Valley Performing Arts Center, the         more important than housing          densities, and less land dedicated to    future as automotive transportation, and
                                             Plaza will host numerous future       shortages and housing affordability.             surface parking lots.            the infrastructure necessary to sustain it,
                                               community oriented events.                                                                                                becomes much more expensive.

Taylorsville General Plan               Chapter 1: Introduction                                                                                                                                         1-16
1.5: Introduction Regional Context                                                                               Wasatch Choice
Taylorsville Within a Larger Region
                                                                                                       As part of a larger region, Taylorsville City recognizes that
The City of Taylorsville is located within the Salt Lake-Provo-Ogden Combined Statistical Area
(CSA). As of the 2020 Census, the Salt Lake CSA was the 22nd largest in the United States with a       the larger metropolitan region impacts the quality of life
population of 2,701,129, which comprises 82.6 percent of the State’s overall population of             for Taylorsville residents. On May 19, 2010 the
3,271,616. Metropolitan Salt Lake has been one of the fastest growing regions in the nation for        Taylorsville City Council approved Resolution #10-19
several decades and the CSA is projected to grow by approximately 1.5 million over the next 40         formally endorsing the Wasatch Choice for 2040
years. As one of ten counties within the CSA, the Salt Lake County population alone (1,186,421 in      Regional Growth Principals. The principals embody many
2020) is expected to grow by nearly 500,000 people by 2060. With a population of 60,295,               of the values held by people of the region and were
Taylorsville represents only 2.2 percent and 5.1 percent of the Salt Lake CSA and Salt Lake            developed based on input from community workshops,
County populations respectively. Clearly, Taylorsville doesn’t function in isolation.                  open houses, committee deliberations, and polling.
Regional issues such as population increase, clean air, mobility, housing affordability, job growth,   The Wasatch Choice for 2040 Growth Principles are
commercial development, water availability, demographic shifts, and open space greatly                 intended to promote quality growth throughout the
influence life in Taylorsville. Regional coordination, communication, and cooperation is especially    metropolitan region. Because the Greater Wasatch
important with regional transportation agencies (WFRC, UTA, and UDOT) and the City’s adjacent          Region is experiencing rapid growth and is expected to
neighbors, West Valley, Murray, West Jordan, and Kearns. As a partner and significant voice in         continue to do so in the future, it is imperative that this
Salt Lake County and westside cities, Taylorsville must stay involved in westside and County           growth be well planned and accommodated in the most
issues to maintain it’s quality of life and be responsive and adoptable to changes and                 efficient and cost effective way. The Principles provide a
opportunities.
                                                                                                       context for plans that are developed by local, state, and
Wasatch Choice                                                                                         other entities, such as special utility and school districts,
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) is the designated Metropolitan Planning                      cities, counties, and private development companies.
Organization (MPO) for Salt Lake, Davis, Tooele, Weber, Morgan, and southern Box Elder
                                                                                                       Wasatch Choice Guiding Principles
Counties. As such, the WFRC is responsible for regional transportation planning, regional
visioning efforts, and community and economic development planning. WFRC coordinates
                                                                                                        • Provide Public Infrastructure that is Efficient and
                                                                                                             Adequately Maintained
regional planning processes including the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) and Transportation
Improvement Program (TIP). As integral as transportation planning is to the overall development
                                                                                                         •   Provide Regional Mobility through a Variety of
                                                                                                             Interconnected Transportation Choices
of the region, WFRC also coordinates the Wasatch Choice regional visioning process that
attempts to tie regional mobility with other regional community goals. Wasatch Choice is built
                                                                                                         •   Integrate Local Land-Use with Regional
                                                                                                             Transportation Systems
on four key strategies, including:
     ▪ Providing transportation choices
                                                                                                         •   Provide Housing for People in all Life Stages and
                                                                                                             Incomes
     ▪ Supporting housing options
     ▪ Preserving open space
                                                                                                         •   Ensure Public Health and Safety
     ▪ Linking economic development with transportation and housing decisions                            •   Enhance the Regional Economy
                                                                                                         •   Promote Regional Collaboration
Implementation of the Wasatch Choice Vison at the local level is largely achieved through the
Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC) program administered by WFRC. The TLC                       •   Strengthen Sense of Community
provides assistance to local communities to help them achieve their goals while implementing             •   Protect and Enhance the Environment



Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 1: Introduction                                                                                                          1-17
the strategies of the Wasatch Choice Vision. Taylorsville has utilized the TLC program four times
in recent years to complete significant planning efforts of local and regional importance
including the Taylorsville Expressway BRT Master Plan (2015; Landmark Design), Taylorsville
Commercial Center Master Planning + Revitalization Study (2020; KGRW & Associates; BCT
Architects), Mid-Valley Active Transportation Plan (2021; Avenue Consultants) and the
Taylorsville Active Communities Plan (2023; Avenue Consultants).
 Objective 1.1: Work with neighboring local governments                           and       regional
 transportation agencies to address issues that affect Taylorsville.

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
1.1-A: Actively participate in local planning efforts to ensure that goals and objectives for
       Taylorsville City are being addressed in long range regional plans.
1.1-B: Initiate regular planning and coordination efforts with neighboring jurisdictions.
        ▪   Meet at least annually with the community development, economic development,
            and transportation departments of neighboring jurisdictions to stay apprised of
            policy decisions and development activities along common municipal boundaries
            and street corridors.
        ▪   Share information about long range planning, development, and implementation
            efforts in Taylorsville with neighboring communities, particularly in the vicinity of
            common municipal boundaries and street corridors.
1.1-C: Actively participate in regional transportation and planning efforts including, but not
       limited to, the Wasatch Choice Vision, Regional Transportation Plan, and
       Transportation and Land Use Connection program.




Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 1: Introduction                                                  1-18
1.6: Introduction Plan Approval and Implementation
The Taylorsville Planning Commission conducted numerous public meetings from the summer
and 2023 through the spring of 2025 to develop, review and consider the proposed Taylorsville
General Plan update. The Planning Commission conducted required public hearings concerning
the adoption of the plan on February 11, 2025 and March 11, 2025. Following the public
hearings, the Planning Commission issued a formal recommendation to the City Council on April
22, 2025 to approve the proposed plan with a 6-0 vote. The Taylorsville City Council reviewed
the recommended plan on May 7 and June 4, 2025, then unanimously adopted the Taylorsville
General Plan update with the approval of Ordinance 25-06 on June 28, 2025.

General Plan Implementation
Successful city planning has been described as the transformation of vision into action. A
common and occasionally accurate criticism of city planning is that many communities develop
plans full of wonderful ideas, then give them little attention until it’s time for a comprehensive
update of the plan years into the future. Implementation of a plan should be viewed of equal
importance as the development of the plan. Once a plan is adopted, implementation of the Plan
must be considered a top priority of the community. The general plan provides not only a
shared vision of the City, but also provides an opportunity to align the efforts of multiple
individuals, departments, and agencies resulting in consistent incremental actions and decisions.
Understanding the vision and priorities of the plan should permeate all levels of the City’s
organization.
Effective general plan implementation tools and methods include:
• Adoption of zoning, subdivision, and development standards. Zoning and development
    codes are perhaps the most utilized tool for implementing the goals of a general plan. By
    aligning development standards with the objectives within the plan, all private development
    regulated by the City will be harmonious with the plan.
• Capital Improvement and Facilities Plans. Many capital projects envisioned within the plan,
    such as road improvements, trails, parks, etc. can be realized and coordinated through
    inclusion within a capital improvement or capital facilities plan.
• Strategic planning. Strategic planning can be an effective implementation tool by prioritizing
    specific actions and assigning responsible parties and specific timelines.
• Annual budget process. The annual Taylorsville City budgeting process is an important
    implementation tool for a plan. The Planning Commission should review and provide budget
    recommendations to the City Council for implementation of priorities within the plan.
• Small area planning. Small area plans provide an opportunity for the community to look at
    specific strategic locations in finer grain detail. Where a general plan is general in nature, a
    small area plan can delve deeper into a location’s specific needs and aspirations.


Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 1: Introduction                                                 1-19
•   Staff knowledge and accountability. As the primary entity tasked with implementation of the
    plan, City Staff must have thorough knowledge and a dedicated obligation towards
    implementing the plan. Understanding the vision, principles, strategies, and objectives within
    the plan is critical at all levels of the City’s development and administrative organization.
Another method to ensure continual attention, evaluation and implementation of the General
Plan is through establishing a permanent advisory committee. It is recommended that the City
establish a Taylorsville General Plan Steering Committee made up of 5-10 members to oversee
progress and implementation of the plan. The Committee would be responsible for monitoring
ongoing activities and report on an annual basis to the Planning Commission and City Council to
assess progress towards performance and achievement.

 Objective 1.2: Establish a permanent Taylorsville General Plan Steering
 Committee (GPSC).

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
1.2-A: GPSC should consist of 5-10 members, made up of residents, property owners, and
       business owners of the city.
1.2-B: The GPSC’s primary responsibility would be to maintain the general plan as a living
       document.
1.2-C: The GPSC should meet with Taylorsville Planning Staff at least twice per year to assess
       general plan implementation progress.
1.2-D: Upon meeting with staff, the GPSC should produce an annual report for the
       Taylorsville Planning Commission and City Council concerning an assessment of
       implementation progress for the previous year and recommendations for updates to
       the plan for the following year.


Amending the General Plan
Community needs and priorities evolve in response to changing local, regional, and national
conditions. The Taylorsville General Plan should be viewed as a dynamic document that provides
a consistent framework for decision making but also adapts to changing priorities, opportunities
and challenges. The Plan should be continuously reviewed and evaluated to insure that it’s
goals are up to date and reflect current conditions. The Plan should, at a minimum, be reviewed
annually by the Taylorsville Planning Commission. Another important time to review and
evaluate the Plan is following regular municipal election cycles to provide input regarding the
Plan’s priorities and implementation.
The Planning Commission, City Staff, City Council, Administration, or the general public may
initiate revisions to the Plan. Amendments require submittal of an official application to the City
detailing the proposed changes. City Staff will review the proposed changes and present a


Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 1: Introduction                                                1-20
recommendation to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission will review the
proposed modification, hold a public hearing, and present a recommendation to the City
Council. The City Council may adopt changes to the Plan at a public meeting.
Decisions to recommend or adopt general plan modifications should be supported by findings
of fact that will provide context to amendment decisions. Amendments to the Plan should
include findings on the following measures:
  • The proposed amendment is in the public interest.
  • The proposed amendment is consistent with the broad intent of the General Plan.
  • The proposed amendment is consistent with the Guiding Principles and Fundamental
      Strategies articulated within the plan.
  • The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and determined
      not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or general welfare of the community.
  • The proposed amendment has been processed in accordance with all applicable
      requirements of the Utah Code.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 1: Introduction                                          1-21
