5 Economic Prosperity & Resilience
Taylorsville ’s prosperity is reflected in the diversity, strength and resilience of our business community, and our
quality of life. Our economically progressive city is driven by a strong work ethic and entrepreneurial spirit. We
empower and strengthen our workforce by incorporating the values of education and enterprise into our culture, and
attracting high wage employment opportunities to stimulate a vibrant and prosperous center of commerce.
Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                              5-1
            “It isn’t the high price of stars
             that’s expensive; it’s the high
                       price of mediocrity.”
                                                                   Bill Veeck (1914-1986)
                               Legendary Baseball Franchise Owner and Promoter
              Bill “Sport Shirt” Veeck was at different times the owner of the Cleveland Indians, St. Louis
             Browns, and Chicago White Sox Major League Baseball franchises. As owner of the Indians
            Veeck integrated the American League when he signed Larry Doby in 1947. Veeck was most
                  famous, however, for his promotional stunts including the notorious “Disco Demolition
                     Night” at Comiskey Park in Chicago in 1979. Veeck was elected to the Major League
                                                                            Baseball Hall of Fame in 1991.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                     5-2
                         Taylorsville General Plan
                         Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity & Resilience
Chapter 5 Contents:
5.1      Existing Markets
5.2      Community Vision
5.3      Economic Development Priority Areas
5.4      Measuring Success
Economic Prosperity and Resilience Goal:                 Engage in proactive
efforts to strengthen the City      ’s fiscal stability and maximize the
City ’s market and commercial potential by focusing efforts and
resources in strategic priority areas to facilitate private investment.
This chapter provides the city with strategic initiatives in support of policies that will guide growth and
development over the near-, mid- and long-term. Generally, the recommendations that follow are
intended to capitalize on opportunities and overcome obstacles in an effort to “ready the market for
investment.” The overall framework for an effective approach to advancing economic development
objectives relies on an understanding of market opportunities, adherence to a set of guiding principles,
and ongoing community support.
An economic development strategy is the logical first step in creating an integrated approach that can
successfully attract new investment and reinvestment. This plan establishes the policy framework to
achieve sustained development and redevelopment over the next 20+ years and also provides the “road
map” for ensuring the city uses its land use resources to strengthen and propel Taylorsville’s economy .
Chapter 3: Land Use, includes the strategic approach to land use planning and development and is
designed to ensure fiscal stability and growth, as well as a high quality of life for residents. As such, it is
intended to assist city leaders in making informed decisions regarding land use and development
patterns. With this understanding and guidance, staff can anticipate how land use decisions will impact
municipal services and enhance the city’s economic resiliency. Map 3.3.2 Proposed Land Use in Chapter
3 includes combinations of development placetypes to illustrate where and what type of investment will
most effectively leverage its surrounding environment and complementary assets. Each of the defined
place types establishes the types of environments that are consistent with the overarching policies and
land planning policies developed in support of this Plan.


Taylorsville General Plan    Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                        5-3
5.1 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Existing Markets
Taylorsville has many competitive economic advantages, including: a stable and mature
population; central location in the Salt Lake Valley; accessibility to the regional automotive
transportation networks; and close proximity to the Salt Lake City International Airport.
Taylorsville has a capable and educated work force, and offers a diverse range of businesses and
services, including several major regional employers and hundreds of small and local businesses.
Taylorsville is also home to the flagship campus of Salt Lake Community College (SLCC). SLCC’s
primary focus is undergraduate higher education and specific vocational training programs and
attracts thousands of students, faculty, and staff to its campus each day. SLCC ranks sixth in the
United States for the number of Associate Degrees produced annually. Approximately 60,000
students visit the campus each year, providing Taylorsville with a significant opportunity to
leverage regional interest and to support and advocate for investments that compliment this
major institution.
The new Midvalley Express Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) line also passes through Taylorsville, an
investment of over $100 million providing essential connections between commuter rail and
light rail lines in Murray and West Valley City, including a new transit hub at SLCC in Taylorsville.
These major public investments provide an opportunity for Taylorsville to attract private
investment and redevelopment activity within the region through targeted marketing, branding
and investor/developer outreach. Taylorsville can further position itself to capture a greater “fair
share” of the regional redevelopment activity by building upon previous achievements:
▪   Taylorsville has created a successful pro-development culture by delivering city programs
    and services that are supportive of economic development to reimagine Taylorsville as a
    multi-use modern suburban center.
▪   Taylorsville’s central location and relative affordability in the Wasatch Front has driven
    growth in residential, office, and neighborhood-serving retail establishments, solidly
    competing against more remote suburban options by offering reduced commutes times.
                                                                                                        Illustration 5.1.1
▪   Taylorsville’s proximity to the Inland Port and the Salt Lake International Airport provides a
                                                                                                        Bus Rapid Transit
    logistically superior location for a variety of industries.
                                                                                                        The Midvalley Express bus rapid transit (BRT) line will bring
▪   The regional public transit system provides service for Taylorsville commuters connecting           speed and efficiency to transit service in Taylorsville and
    them to employment centers in downtown Salt Lake City, the Silicon Slopes of Utah County,           potentially act as a catalyst for new development.
    and throughout the Wasatch Front.                                                                   Construction of the BRT line is expected to be finished in fall
                                                                                                        2026.
▪   City Economic Development fosters valuable business attraction and retention partnerships
    that serves to drive continued demand for urban infill activity.
This Plan proposes strategies for Taylorsville to leverage its most important asset: its location in
the region. Implementation of this Plan will require sustained coordination with Taylorsville’s


Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                          5-4
Department of Economic and Community Development and local and regional stakeholders,
including:
▪ Economic Development Corporation of Utah (EDC Utah)
▪ Salt Lake County
▪ State of Utah Departments of Transportation, and other departments with funding programs
     that could be supportive of redevelopment projects
▪ Utah Transit Authority (UTA)
▪ Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC)
▪ ChamberWest
▪ Intermountain Healthcare
▪ Salt Lake Community College (SLCC)
▪ Utah State University (USU)
▪ Granite School District
Existing Commercial and Mixed Use Districts                                                                                            Illustration 5.1.2
Taylorsville has approximately 2.3 million square feet of retail space and an overall occupancy
                                                                                                                                       Taylorsville Revenues by Source, Fiscal Year 2024
rate of 96 percent (2025). During fiscal year 2024, Taylorsville City collected just under $13                                         Source: Taylorsville Annual Comprehensive Financial Report.
million in sales tax revenue, 29 percent of total City revenues (see Illustration
5.1.2). Taylorsville’s gross retail sales have grown at an annual rate of 3.3
percent since 2005 (see Illustration 5.1.3), demonstrating a pattern of
economic growth and resiliency despite challenging events such as the Great
Recession (December 2007 through June 2009) and the COVID Pandemic
(January 2020 through the end of 2022). While Taylorsville’s local economy
has continued to strengthen over the past decade, more can be done to
solidify Taylorsville’s place as a leader in the local and regional markets.

In 2020, the City conducted a retail market analysis1 that included a retail sales
gap analysis, often referred to as “leakage.” The sales tax leakage and analysis
identifies economic development opportunities for a community by
evaluating the total purchases made by residents inside and outside the
community. This information assists the City in attracting businesses to fill
service gaps and prepare economic development strategies to keep retail
sales in the city.
The leakage analysis was conducted for the primary retail trade area—the
geographical area from which a community’s retailers derive a majority of
their business (see Illustration 5.1.4). The primary retail trade area represents
those consumers who shop in Taylorsville on a daily basis. Illustration 5.1.5                                                          Illustration 5.1.3:
1
    Taylorsville Commercial Center Master Planning and Revitalization Study. KGRW and Associates and BCT Desing Group, Baltimore, MD   Taylorsville Sales Tax Revenue, 2005-2024
(2020).                                                                                                                                Source: Taylorsville Annual Comprehensive Financial Report.


Taylorsville General Plan             Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                                                  5-5
identifies which sales categories (identified using North American Industry Classification System
[NAICS] Codes) Taylorsville City is experiencing sales leakage to other jurisdictions. A leakage
index below one (1.0) indicates an opportunity for retail expansion in Taylorsville.
Although Taylorsville has experienced significant redevelopment since 2010, most of the current
retail and commercial development in the city was built from the mid-1970s to the 1990s. Since
that time, newer and more modern commercial developments have been built in surrounding
communities, resulting in a competitive disadvantage for Taylorsville’s aging commercial
developments. Several existing Taylorsville retail centers no longer reflect the size, layout, or
aesthetic quality of more desirable contemporary commercial areas or accommodate the
changing nature and requirements of retailers. Newer and competing retail centers cater to
lifestyle and leisure activities that attract more customers by offering higher quality tenants, a
diversity of retail offerings, improved access, higher quality design, and enhanced management
and promotional strength.
Future demand for regional retail space can be served by redevelopment and improvements to
existing locations. The city should focus efforts on continuing to revitalize and improve existing   Illustration 5.1.4:
retail districts and centers to maintain an attractive, contemporary, and customer-oriented          Taylorsville’s Primary Retail Trade Area
                                                                                                     Source: Taylorsville Commercial Center Master Planning + Revitalization
experience. This will help Taylorsville remain competitive and retain sales tax revenue and
                                                                                                     Study, July 2020.
minimize leakage to neighboring jurisdictions. Map 5.1.6 identifies the location of commercial
centers and districts in Taylorsville. Pages
5-7 through 5-14 provide an overview of
each corresponding commercial district.




                                                                                                     Illustration 5.1.5:
                                                                                                     Taylorsville Retail Gap Analysis
                                                                                                     Source: Taylorsville Commercial Center Master Planning + Revitalization
                                                                                                     Study, July 2020.

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                                 5-6
            Map 5.1.6: Commercial and Mixed-Use Zoning Districts and Existing Commercial Centers and Mixed Use Districts Taylorsville

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                               5-7
                Taylorsville has approximately 2.3 million square feet of commercial space with many suburban in-line retail style and stand alone commercial buildings constructed in
                the 1970s-1990s. Taylorsville’s central location has allowed some of these commercial centers to succeed while similar centers in the valley struggle with vacancy rates.
                The city should capitalize on its location and traffic counts and reimagine or reinvest in centers to keep these areas competitive and draw in visitors.




                                                               1. Carriage Square 4166 South Redwood Road
                    4100 South
                                                       N
                                                                  Carriage Square is a distinctive shopping center constructed in 1979 that
                                                                  provides 137,377 square feet of commercial space on 9.3 acres. The L shaped
                                                                  center has frontage on both Redwood Road and 4100 South. The center is
                                        Redwood Road

                                                                  unique in Taylorsville both architecturally and that each of the individual tenant
                                                                  spaces is individually owned. Parking, alleys, and public spaces are owned in
                                                                  common and managed by a property owners association (POA). A
                                                                  comprehensive redesign of the parking lot, streetscape, landscaping, sidewalks,
                                                                  and pylon signage was completed in 2023 featuring a sidewalk expansion to
                                                                  accommodate potential outdoor dining spaces. The tenant mix at Carriage
                                                                  Square is primarily made up of locally owned businesses creating a unique
                                                                  setting anywhere in the region.


                                                               2. Meadowbrook Plaza 4191 South Redwood Road
                      Redwood Road                     N
                                                                  Meadowbrook Plaza is strategically located at the intersection of two regional
                                                                  arterial highways (Redwood Road and 4100 South) at a major gateway location
                                                                  on the border of Taylorsville and West Valley City. The center is constructed in an
                                                                  in-line retail style featuring a grocery anchor tenant. The center provides 102,306
                                                                  square feet of commercial space plus 4,912 square feet of pad site space on 9.39
                                                                  acres. Constructed primarily in 1974, Meadowbrook Plaza became the principal
                                                                  retail space in Taylorsville with several businesses relocating from the 4800 South
                                                                  Redwood Road commercial node. A comprehensive exterior remodel was
                                                                  completed in 2025 greatly enhancing the architectural quality of the center.
                                                                  Current owners are actively exploring complementary site upgrades and



                                                               3. Westwood Village 2572 West 4700 South
                                                       N          Westwood Village is a large suburban strip mall shopping center providing
                                                                  69,848 square feet of commercial space with 14,734 square feet of pad sites on
                                                                  9.67 acres. Constructed in 1980 near the I-215 interchange on 4700 South,
2700 West




                                                                  Westwood represents one of the key retail/commercial locations in the city. No
                                                                  major renovations or upgrades have occurred at the site and the buildings are in
                                                                  generally poor condition. Future redevelopment should capitalize on
                                                                  opportunities from the property’s high visibility, freeway access, future BRT stops,
                                                                  traffic counts, and proximity to the state office complex and Taylorsville temple
                                                                  that bring thousands of employees and visitors to the area daily.
                  4700 South




            Taylorsville General Plan         Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                             5-8
                                                         4. Taylor’s Landing 2490 West 4700 South
                                                           Constructed in 1983, Taylors Landing is a mid-sized strip mall with 32,000 square
                                                           feet of tenant space plus 7,700 square feet of pad sites on 5.11 acres. Although
                                                           the center is strategically located immediately adjacent to the I-215 interchange,
                                                           Taylor’s landing is challenged by difficult access due to high traffic congestion



                                        Interstate-215
                                                           from the freeway exit and it’s singular access point from 4700 South. Like the
                                                           neighboring Westwood Village, Taylor’s Landing has significant potential in
                                                           redevelopment based on it’s proximity to I-215, Midvalley Express BRT, Utah State
                                                           Office Complex, and the Taylorsville Temple.

           4700 South              N



                                                         5. Standard Plumbing Center 3915 West 4700 South
         4700 South                                        Located in the former RC Willey Furniture Store, the main Standard Plumbing
                                                           anchor location was remodeled in 2018. Original pad sites were constructed on
                                                           the northwestern portion of the site in 1979 and 1989; additional pad sites on the
                                       Bangerter Hwy.




                                                           northeastern portion of the site were constructed in 2022. The large multitenant
                                                           building provides 118,949 square feet of commercial space with four pad sites
                                                           across 11.29 acres.    The location is complemented by an adjacent modern
                                                           medical center and recently constructed multi-family townhomes east of the site.


                                   N



                                                         6. Jade Square 2961 West 4700 South
           4700 South                                      Constructed in 2017, Jade Square is a newer commercial center providing 18,864
                                                           square feet of flex space between four buildings on 1.76 acres. The project is a
                                                           mix of local restaurant, service, and retail businesses with high visibility and well-
                                                           maintained property.




                                   N


Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                           5-9
                                             7. Taylorsville Town Center 1837 West 4700 South
                                    N           Located at the key intersection of Redwood Road and 4700 South, the
                                                Taylorsville Town Center is a suburban style strip mall that provides 125,174
                                                square feet of in-line commercial space plus 17,474 square feet of pad sites on
                                                15.3 acres. Constructed 1990, this well maintained grocery anchored center has
                                                undergone several interior and exterior updates, including a comprehensive
                                                façade update in 2021.




                                             8. Taylorsville Mercantile District 4800 S Redwood Road
                                    N
                                                The Taylorsville Mercantile District, centered around the intersection of 4800
                                                South and Redwood Road, was the community’s original commercial quarter. At
                                                approximately 29 acres, this neighborhood of stand alone retail buildings, strip
                                                malls, housing, storage, and employment uses comprise an approximate total of
                                                212,732 square feet of commercial space. Most structures within the area were
                                                constructed between the late 1940s and early 2000s. Several newer projects have
                                                helped breath new life into the neighborhood, including the Plymouth View
                                                Senior Housing apartments, Plymouth Fire Station #117, renovated Taylorsville
                                                Park, and the Redwood Road Beautification Project that buried above ground
                                                utilities and power lines. The Taylorsville Mercantile District plays a key role in the
                                                city’s identity based on it’s historic location and close proximity to the 4800
                                                Historic District.


                                             9. West Point—North 3900 West 5400 South
                                    N
                                                The West Point—North commercial area is the northwest quadrant of the three part
                                                West Point District. Located north of 5400 South between Bangerter Highway and
                                                4015 West, West Point—North is a blend of office and retail uses including fast food
                                                and auto uses. The area is anchored by VASA Fitness located in a former grocery
                                                location (57,610 square feet) and the Utah Department of Public Safety office building
                                                (32,664 square feet). Most buildings located within the 18.3 acre site were constructed
                                                in the 1980s and 1990s with several new construction projects in the 2010s spurred
                                                by the new Bangerter interchange at 5400 South.
               5400 South




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                 5-10
                                                 10. West Point—South 3800 West 5400 South
                                        N
            5400 South                                 The West Point—South commercial area is the southwest quadrant of the three part
                                                       West Point District. Located south of 5400 South between Bangerter Highway and
                                                       4015 West, West Point is the primary commercial gateway into Taylorsville from the
                                                       west, bordering Kearns and the proposed Kearns Town Center. Following the
                                                       demolition of the West Point Plaza shopping center to facilitate the 16.5 Volta
                                                       mixed use community, West Point—South provides a current total of 75,889 square
                                                       feet of commercial space in pad sites and small multitenant buildings. Overall the
                                                       site is 38 acres with 3.6 acres dedicated to self-storage and 3.82 acres of multifamily
                                                       residential.




                                                 11. West Point—East 3684 West 5400 South
                                        N
                                                       The West Point—East commercial area is the eastern quadrant of the three part
                                                       West Point District. Located both north and south of 5400 South east of Bangerter
                                                       Highway, this highly trafficked district is challenged by small parcel sizes dictated by
                                                       geography and adjacent residential uses, and heavy traffic around the Bangerter
                  5400 South
                                                       interchange. The 8.83 acre district is characterized by numerous automotive uses.




                                                 12. Westbrooke Centre 3135 West 5400 South
                                                      Strip mall style center providing 21,659 square feet of commercial space on
                    3200 West




    5400 South                                        2.35 acres anchoring the small commercial node at 3200 West and 5400 South.
                                                      Individual tenant improvements and minor façade improvements were
                                                      completed in 2023. The soon to be completed Utah and Salt Lake Canal Trail
                                                      could increase pedestrian traffic to the center. Upgrades such as pedestrian
                                                      connectivity from the trail and street and bike parking could transform this
                                                      location into a pit stop for trail users.

N



Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                     5-11
                                                                 13. Taylorsville City Center 2700 West 5400 South
                                                N                   Taylorsville City Center is a 20 acre civic center anchored by Taylorsville City Hall
                                                                    (2003). Other uses at the site include the Mid-Valley Performing Arts Center [PAC]
                                                                    (2021), Centennial Plaza [green space, amphitheater, plaza and outdoor eating areas]
                                                                    (2021), Unified Fire Authority Station #18 (1999), and the St. Mark’s Hospital

                                             Interstate-215
2700 West




                                                                    Taylorsville Emergency Center (2016). City Center has emerged as the primary
                                                                    community gathering place in the city with dozens of annual events at the Mid-Valley
                                                                    PAC and Centennial Plaza, including concerts and theatrical performances, seasonal
                                                                    food truck gatherings, farmer’s markets, and movies in the park.
                   5400 South




                                                                 14. Marvin’s Gardens 2262 West 5400 South
                                              N
                          2200 West




                                                                    25,000 square foot strip mall that anchors the small commercial node at 2200 West
                                                                    and 5400 South. Constructed in 1992 & 1997, Marvin Gardens (2.8 acres) includes a
                                                                    10,000 square foot green house that houses a popular seasonal nursery operation.




             5400 South




                                                                 15. Legacy Plaza 1922 West 5400 South
                                             N
                                                                    Legacy Plaza is a strategically located national tenant anchored commercial center
                                                                    located at the northwest corner of 5400 South and Redwood Road. Originally
                                                  Redwood Road




                                                                    constructed in 1980 as Plaza 5400, the center initiated a rebrand and comprehensive
                                                                    remodel and redevelopment in 2015. An additional phase of redevelopment was
                                                                    completed in 2024. The center is considered the northern quadrant of the Center
                                                                    Point Commercial District. Currently the center provides approximately 91,000 square
                                                                    feet of in-line commercial space plus and an additional 38,000 square feet of pad sites
                    5400 South                                      on 19.2 acres.




      Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                           5-12
                       5400 South
                                                                16. Harmon’s/Crossroads North 5454 South Redwood Rd
                                                            N
                                                                   The Harmons/Crossroads—North neighborhood is a big-box anchored shopping
                                                                   district anchored by the Harmons Neighborhood Grocer and Regal Cinemas 14.
                                                                   Overall, this vicinity contains over 256,500 square feet of commercial space plus over
                            Redwood Road




                                                                   78,000 square feet of pad sites on 30.8 acres. Constructed initially in 1982, extensive
                                                                   remodeling and redevelopment has occurred over the last ten years at both
                                                                   Harmons and Crossroads of Taylorsville locations. The Harmons/Crossroads—North
                                                                   area includes the Harmons Grocery store and center, the north and west sections of
                                                                   the Crossroads of Taylorsville regional shopping center, and several individually
                                                                   owned pad locations. The Harmons/Crossroads North area is considered the central
                                                                   quadrant of the Center Point Commercial District.


               5400 South                                       17. Walmart Quadrant 5469 South Redwood Road
                                                            N      The Walmart Quadrant is the eastern quadrant of the Center Point Commercial
                                                                   District. Anchored by a Walmart Super Center, the largest retail structure in
                                                                   Taylorsville at 262,891 square feet, this vicinity also includes several pad locations
Redwood Road




                                                                   encompassing 35,785 square feet constructed from the 1990s through 2020s facing
                                                                   both Redwood Road and 5400 South. Overall the locale includes 26.8 acres.

                                                                   The Walmart Supercenter was constructed in 2005 on the redeveloped sites of a
                                                                   former Walmart and Homebase Home Improvement Center.




                                                                18. Crossroads South 5600 South Redwood Road
                                                            N      The Crossroads South vicinity is the southern quadrant of the Center Point
                                             Redwood Road




                                                                   Commercial District. Located at the I-215 Interchange at Redwood Road, this location
                                                                   is considered the premier retail location in the City. Anchored by Target, this portion
                                                                   of the Crossroads of Taylorsville regional shopping center provides over 464,000
                                                                   square feet of commercial space (big box plus pad sites) on 41.9 acres. Constructed
                                                                   primarily in 1980s and 1990s, Crossroads South experienced significant remodeling
                                                                   and limited redevelopment in the 2010s and 2020s.




Taylorsville General Plan                  Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                     5-13
     6200 So.
                                                19. Millstone Plaza 6357 South Redwood Road
 N                                                   Constructed in 2009, Millstone Plaza is a well designed and maintained multi-tenant
                                                     strip center within a larger office district near the city’s southern border on Redwood
                Redwood Road




                                                     Road. The project provides 11,272 square feet of commercial space on 1.22 acres.




                                                                                                                                               Need pic and word and
                                                                                                                                               map




Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                           5-14
5.2 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Community Vision
Economic Resilience
Economic resilience is an important characteristic of a prosperous community. A city’s resilience
is predicated on multiple factors, some which municipalities can control, and others which they
have less influence over. Among those they can more directly impact is their approach to
allocating and assigning land uses, and their response to zoning requests. The connection
between a community’s land use mix, product inventories, and municipal budget is often
overlooked, but must be understood in order to ensure informed decision-making by its leaders.
This is particularly true for communities that are near or at build-out, like Taylorsville.
Just as different land uses translate into both revenues and expenses for government entities, so
too do the various product types among land uses. For example, multi-family rental properties,
if for no other reason than the average density of this product type versus a single family unit,
will impact revenues and expenses differently. Similarly, the manner in which different uses are
organized, designed, combined, or clustered will also impact revenues and expenses. Therefore,
as important as local preferences are in terms of land use and product offerings, so too are the
impacts these preferences have on community resources, their ability to maintain service levels,
and provide public amenities. Land use decisions should consider the comprehensive nature of
all associated impacts, including fiscal impacts.
In a survey conducted by the Urban Land Institute (ULI), several institutional real estate investors
cited “fiscal health” as a leading community-based issue that informs their investment returns
(Emerging Trends in Real Estate Report, 2018). They explained that policy decisions regarding
growth and development largely stem from conditions affecting their fiscal resiliency, as well as
their ability to participate in, and support, desired development. During the past three decades,
cities throughout the United States have significantly increased their efforts to foster and inform
real estate development, rather than take a “wait and see” approach. Among those that
succeeded, most did so because they understood that, “Private investment follows public                Illustration 5.2.1
                                                                                                       Building Better Places
commitment.” To that end, they sought to understand how they could most effectively leverage           As the commercial real estate market continues to evolve,
their resources to attract new investment, encourage reinvestment, and be a productive partner         quality retailers will gravitate to the best locations. Creating
to the private sector.                                                                                 mixed-use and commercial places where people want to
                                                                                                       be—with a focus on urban design, amenities, open space,
                                                                                                       architectural quality, complementary uses, and pedestrian
                                                                                                       orientation—will be critical for Taylorsville’s economic
                                                                                                       development future.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                          5-15
 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Objective 5.1: Strengthen the City’s fiscal
 stability and maximize market and commercial potential.

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
5.1-A: Stay current and informed regarding changing consumer needs and adapt economic
       development strategies accordingly.
5.1-B: Periodically review demographic, market, and consumer behavior trends and adapt
       specific strategies to remain competitive.
5.1-C: Research and create a methodology for how different land uses and the manner in which
       different uses are organized, designed, combined, or clustered influence city revenues
       and expenses.
5.1-D: Evaluate and modify existing incentive offerings to ensure the judicious use of municipal
       resources, including: Community Reinvestment Act (CRA); Housing and Transit
       Reinvestment Zones (HTRZ); Redevelopment Agency (RDA); and others.
5.1-E: Identify appropriate locations to preserve and enhance a robust commercial base.
5.1-F: Establish proactive initiatives to encourage investment, reinvestment, redevelopment,
       and business expansion and attraction.
5.1-G: Leverage partnerships with organizations and institutions that support the vision
       expressed in this Plan.
5.1-H: Coordinate and align efforts and messaging regarding Taylorsville’s Vision.
5.1-I: Create strategic business development, marketing, and outreach tools.
5.1-J: Amend policy, regulations, and strategic resources to ensure consistency.
5.1-K: Target key business and property owners to revitalize existing retail properties.

Maximizing the City’s Market and Commercial Potential
Current and projected population density, household incomes, consumer spending habits, traffic
counts, accessibility, and regional market conditions inform how much commercial, retail, and
entertainment can be supported and sustained in Taylorsville. The City’s goal of maximizing
market and commercial potential will require taking full advantage of its most desirable
commercial locations, while evolving its less desirable commercial locations to their highest,
best, and most appropriate use. Chapter 3: Land Use, further illustrates how to best achieve the
city’s market potential through informed and intentional land use decisions.
Successful economic development programs communicate a holistic view of their investment
climate. To this end, their efforts to foster a favorable environment for businesses consider not
only the needs of the corporation, but those of their employees. While business siting decisions
                                                                                                     Illustration 5.2.2
tend to place the greatest emphasis on conditions associated with supply, operational costs, and
                                                                                                     Taylorsville Expressway BRT Station Area Plan
personnel linkages; similar consideration is given to the availability of a diverse mix of housing   These illustrative renderings demonstrate the vision and
types, opportunities for entertainment and recreation, and access to cultural resources. The         investment potential of properties along the Midvalley Bus
elements below make up a community’s “economic development infrastructure.”                          Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor in Taylorsville.


Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                   5-16
    People – a community’s resident and non-resident employees, its labor force, and its
    employers.
    Sites and Buildings - opportunity sites and buildings that can effectively leverage public
    incentives for development and redevelopment.
    Housing Choices – housing products that serve a wide range of age, income, and lifestyle
    stages.
    Incentives and Business Support - public programs, projects, and policies that overcome
    limited resources and facilitate private investment.
    Infrastructure - physical networks that support private investment such as transportation
    (roadways, mobility, transit, etc.) and utility systems (power, water, sewer, cable, etc.).
    Quality of Life - recreation amenities, social services, public facilities, etc., that both visitors
    and residents can access.
To leverage Taylorsville’s competitive advantage over peer communities, the city should
prioritize updating it’s Economic Development Plan to define the city’s direction and priorities
over the next five years in the following fundamental areas – business retention and expansion,
revitalization, business attraction, entrepreneurship, and competitiveness.
With an understanding of Taylorsville’s preferred pattern of development, and appropriateness
of certain uses and products by geography, the City can identify parcels for strategic acquisition
and development, and pro-actively plan for supporting infrastructure and other capital
improvements.

 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Objective 5.2: Create a comprehensive
 economic development infrastructure plan.

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
5.2-A: Prepare a comprehensive report to summarize the current landscape of Taylorsville’s
       “economic development infrastructure.”
5.2-B: Prepare a Five-Year Strategic Development Plan to identify short-term priorities for
       business retention, expansion, attraction, entrepreneurship, and competitiveness.
5.2-C: Identify parcels for strategic acquisition and development, and pro-actively plan for
       supporting infrastructure and other capital improvements to support the city’s vision.
5.2-D: Coordinate with service and utility providers to identify infrastructure and capital
       improvements needed to support Taylorsville’s vision.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                  5-17
5.3 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Priority Areas
Over 95 percent of all retail, office, and mixed-use development in Taylorsville is
situated on four major regional transportation corridors: Redwood Road; 4700 South;
5400 South; and the northern portion of 2700 West. This Plan identifies several
strategic areas that should be the focus of a reinvigorated retail and commercial
strategy (see Map 5.3.1). Each location has its own unique set of opportunities and
challenges. Collectively, their improvement and redevelopment can strengthen the
image and brand of the City, increase desirable retail opportunities for local residents
and nearby communities, and add new and complementary uses that will make these
areas attractive commercial and mixed-use nodes. To this end, the following seven
priority areas have been identified:
    1.   5400 South & Bangerter Highway (West Point District)
    2.   4700 South & I-215 (State Complex, Westwood, Taylor’s Landing, LDS
         Temple)
    3.   4700 South Redwood Road (Towne Center & SLCC)
    4.   4800 South Redwood Road (Taylorsville Mercantile District)
    5.   5400 South Redwood Road (Center Point District)
    6.   South Redwood (Between I-215 and 6400 South)
    7.   Taylorsville Expressway (4700 South east of Redwood Road)
The balance of this Section 5.3, examines each of the seven priority areas listed above
and provides specific strategies and recommendations for each, to help achieve the
goals and visions established in this Plan.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                  5-18
                                                         Map 5.3.1: Economic Development Priority Areas

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                 5-19
West Point District (5400 South/Bangerter Highway/4015 West)
This priority area provides a unique opportunity for substantial redevelopment across a large
site. It is located at the intersection of 5400 South and Bangerter Highway and sits at the
western border of the City, adjacent to Kearns. This area has both high visibility and accessibility
                                                                                                                                                      N
from both 5400 South and Bangerter Highway. Given the proximity to the Salt Lake International
Airport via Bangerter Highway, this area can become a “regional service hub” with a
concentration on housing and commercial services. To capitalize on the opportunity in this
priority area, land assembly and public-private partnerships are critical. Related, but not
dependent on this topic is tax increment financing.
The 5400 South and Bangerter site is the only priority area that has included an approved
rezoned for a substantial high-quality mixed use project (West Point SSD). Market conditions
resulting from the COVID pandemic have stalled development activity on the site; however, the
city is committed and supportive of ongoing efforts to build the mixed-use project approved as
part of the SSD-X West Point zone.
In addition to the potential mixed-use development on the old West Point Shopping Center
property, the City should monitor and prioritize quality redevelopment on the balance of the
West Point District in accordance with the vision, goals, and strategies established on pages 3-
34 and 3-35 of this Plan.

 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Objective 5.3: Prioritize Redevelopment in
 the West Point District.




                                                                                                                             5400 South
 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
5.3-A: Support efforts to facilitate development of the mixed-use project approved as part of
       the SSD-X West Point zoning district.
5.3-B: If needed, market the site to developers. If developers do not show interest, the City
       should be prepared to pursue a purchase option with a developer. The developer can
       assign the purchase to the City.
5.3-C: Consider using RDA tax increment to reimburse major investments for transportation,
       infrastructure, parking, and streetscape improvements associated with redevelopment.
5.3-D: Coordinate, as appropriate, land use planning, infrastructure upgrades, and
       redevelopment with Kearns and the adjacent development of the Kearns Town Center.
                                                                                                                                          4000 West
                                                                                                         Taylorsville/Kearns Boundary

                                                                                                       Illustration 5.3.2:
                                                                                                       West Point District Economic Development Priority
                                                                                                       Area.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                  5-20
I-215 & 4700 South (State Office Complex, Westwood Village, Taylor’s Landing)
Located on the western edge of the city, with prominent visibility from 4700 South, I-215, and
two BRT stations, this area is the likely candidate for a high-profile catalyst development to
signify that Taylorsville is open for mixed-use development. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-                                                Beltway
Day Saints Temple, along with the six-building campus of the State of Utah, attract thousands of                                                    West
people to the area increasing the demand for retail, housing, and services.                             Midvalley Ex-
                                                                                                        press Bus Rap-
The existing Taylor’s Landing shopping center is characterized as an “obsolete” retail product            id Transit
largely based on access issues. The shopping center is in “fair” condition containing primarily low        Corridor
slung buildings with limited visibility from the freeway despite it immediate adjacency.
The adjacent 10-acre Westwood Village center is in mostly poor condition with little
reinvestment into the site over the last 20+ years. The surface parking lot requires resurfacing
and drainage attention, building facades and signage and most of the pad sites appear in
outdated or dilapidated condition. The turnover of major anchor tenants in the center shifts the
condition of the property from moderate to high vacancy and makes the center ripe for
immediate redevelopment.
A mixed-use development at this site would provide strong brand recognition for nonresidential                                        Utah State Office
users from I-215. Higher-intensity multifamily housing, strategic retail, and a limited service hotel                                     Complex
would complement the site. This project would draw greater daytime population and support




                                                                                                                                                            Interstate 215
community development and the market for new housing in the area. In addition to the
potential mixed-use development opportunities on the shopping center properties, the City
should monitor and prioritize quality redevelopment in accordance with the vision, goals, and           Taylorsville/
strategies established on pages 3-30 through 3-33 of this Plan.                                         West Valley
                                                                                                         Boundary
 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Objective 5.4: Prioritize Redevelopment in
 the I-215 and 4700 District.

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
                                                                                                                                     Westwood    Taylor’s
5.4-A: Engage property owners/brokers to undertake a long-term, tactical de-leasing strategy                                          Village    Landing
       to position the commercial center for future property assemblage and large-scale
       redevelopment.                                                                                    4700 South
5.4-B: Establish a “Merchant Assistance Program” to facilitate tenant relocation/small business
       retention, and to catalyze retail and neighborhood service business formation.                                                       Taylorsville




                                                                                                                         2700 West
5.4-C: Engage property owners to explore land sales or joint-venture strategies that could                                                      Temple
       benefit from public development incentives
5.4-D: Identify high quality, highly experienced regional real estate developer targets and
                                                                                                             N
       market the redevelopment opportunity through the Request for Qualifications (RFQ)
       process with the land seller and/or jointly with the City.

                                                                                                        Illustration 5.3.3:
                                                                                                        4700 South & 2700 West Priority Area.

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                                    5-21
4700 South & Redwood Road (Taylorsville Town Center & SLCC Vicinity)
Although the area surrounding the intersection of 4700 South and Redwood Road is a relatively
small commercial node, this area represents one of the most important locations in the City. As
the location of flagship campus of the Salt Lake Community College, Taylorsville Park, and a                                                                      N
portion of the Midvalley Bus Rapid Transit corridor (including the SLCC multi-modal hub), this
area presents many challenges and opportunities. A potential future Redwood Road transit
route extending to the north and south ends of Salt Lake County would provide key connections
through Taylorsville, the SLCC campus area, and the greater Salt Lake Valley.
Attracting more traditional students presents an opportunity for Taylorsville to better integrate                     Salt Lake
the campus into the surrounding community. Currently, there is poor connectivity to and from                         Community
campus due to the heavily trafficked Redwood Road, an exposed canal corridor, and established                          College
residential neighborhoods. The city should focus efforts on improving the integration and
relationship of the surrounding areas with the campus. For example, pedestrian, transit, and




                                                                                                                                               Redwood Road
aesthetic improvements to Redwood Road as well as off-campus housing, employment,                          Midvalley Express
hospitality, dining, and other retail services would complement the growing campus and bring               Bus Rapid Transit
an added level of investment, interest, and activity to the area.                                          Corridor

Several remnant parcels immediately east and north of the existing Taylorsville-Bennion                            4700 South
Improvement District offices were acquired by the City with the intent of providing direct BRT                                  Taylorsville
access to the new BRT SLCC multi-modal hub. These parcels provide an opportunity for small                                                                    Taylorsville
                                                                                                                                Town Center                      Park
transit-oriented development. Additionally, the small area immediately east of SLCC (4465-4555
South Redwood Road) could serve as a stronger campus gateway and may be a good candidate
for off-campus housing or other land uses that complement the growing campus.

 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Objective 5.5: Prioritize Redevelopment in
                                                                                                    Illustration 5.3.4:
 the 4700 South and Redwood Road district.                                                          4700 South & Redwood Road Economic Development
                                                                                                    Priority Area.
 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions

5.5-A: Focus efforts to improve the integration and relationship of the adjacent area with the
       campus to create synergy and compatible uses to spur investment.
5.5-B: Identify and analyze existing barriers to connectivity, redevelopment, and investment in
       the surrounding area and craft solutions to overcome those barriers.
5.5-C: Coordinate with SLCC leadership to identify how to create a mutually beneficial
       relationship to achieve SLCC and City goals.
5.5-D: Capitalize on SLCC’s presence in Taylorsville through awareness and marketing
       campaigns by promoting SLCC events, activities, and achievements.
5.5-E: Promote the Midvalley BRT corridor and its connection with SLCC.
5.5-F: Advocate and support efforts for a Redwood Road BRT line that serves SLCC.



Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                             5-22
Taylorsville Mercantile District (4800 S. Redwood Road)
Taylorsville’s first commercial district developed in the late 1800s. As the area rapidly grew in the
1960s and 1970s, commercial and retail centers emerged in other areas of the city, leaving the




                                                                                                                                         Redwood Road
Mercantile District with aging and outdated buildings. Today, the area is characterized as older,
in need of repairs, and a less desirable commercial/retail area. Consequently, its future
redevelopment potential is likely rooted in emerging markets other than retail.                              N
Several potential building blocks exist to anchor redevelopment, including Taylorsville Park,
Taylorsville Senior Center, Plymouth View senior housing, the 4800 South Historic District, and
the Midvalley BRT. Prioritizing walkability and advocating for a future transit line on Redwood                                                            Plymouth View
Road will bring added value and increased desirability. A mix of housing, employment, and retail                                                           Senior Housing
uses to complement the area should be explored. While additional retail development potential
may be limited, the City should emphasize the following economic development strategies:
   1. Build on the positive aspects of the area.                                                                                                                 4800 South
   2. Create a district specifically geared towards the needs of seniors:                                                 True Value
       a. Consolidate redevelopment housing dollars in this area for senior housing projects.                            Family Stores
       b. Design new infrastructure around the needs of seniors and improve access to transit.
       c. Recruit retail and service industries to the area that cater to the needs of seniors.




                                                                                                                                                  Redwood Road
   3. Develop a small area master plan that addresses densities, architectural compatibility,
       infrastructure improvements, etc..
   4. Create a special improvement district for streetscape improvements and maintenance.
   5. Assemble properties for redevelopment.
Given the lack of significant development opportunities currently in the Mercantile District,
efforts should be focused on preparing the framework to support incremental improvements
and long-term redevelopment in accordance with the vision, goals, and strategies established on
pages 3-36 through 3-39 of this Plan.
                                                                                                                                                          Plymouth
 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Objective 5.6: Prioritize Redevelopment in                                                                          Station 117
 the Taylorsville Mercantile District.
 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
5.6-A: Explore efforts to acquire and/or assemble parcels for a larger development site.
5.6-B: Establish a Redevelopment Area to incentivize public and private improvements.
5.6-C: Coordinate with Salt Lake Community College regarding a joint venture transit-oriented
       development. A student-housing focused project could catalyze the market.
5.6-D: Recruit community-serving, education-related, and convenience retail to complement
                                                                                                        Illustration 5.3.5:
       residential neighborhoods, senior-oriented amenities, and Salt Lake Community College.           Taylorville Mercantile District Economic Development
5.6-E: Promote the Midvalley BRT corridor and its connection with SLCC.                                 Priority Area.

5.6-F: Advocate and support efforts for a Redwood Road BRT line that serves SLCC.

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                                     5-23
5400 S. Redwood Road (Center Point District)
The regional commercial center at 5400 South and Redwood Road is, and will remain, the
premier retail location in the City of Taylorsville. Retail operations here account for over half of
all retail sales in the city. The area has easy and direct access to three regional transportation
corridors which makes this a highly desirable retail location. Despite significant competitive
pressures, new investment by the city and the private sector is recapturing lost sales, and there
are opportunities to broaden the mix of uses in the area to include additional entertainment,




                                                                                                                                       Redwood Road
hospitality, cultural, office, residential, and mixed-use infill.
                                                                                                                                                        Taylorsville
This priority area’s size, central location, demographics, and easy access to the regional
                                                                                                                       Legacy Plaza                     High School
transportation system provide the potential for the Center Point District to once again be among
the top commercial locations in the metropolitan region. To reach that potential, however, this                          at 5400
district must continue to evolve into a place that addresses evolving trends, new realities, and                                                       5400 South
consumer expectations. This prominent location, calls for a vibrant and iconic built environment
that delicately balances land uses, transportation options, and market forces. Architectural
quality, site design, open space, and land use must all coalesce to make this place reach it’s full                    Crossroads of
potential now, and well into the future.                                                                                Taylorsville

The redevelopment of the 5400 South and Redwood Road district is the subject of a small area                              [North]                     Walmart
master plan in Chapter 3: Land Use. Please refer to pages 3-42 through 3-45 for additional
information.

 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Objective 5.7: Prioritize Redevelopment in
 the Center Point District.                                                                                            Crossroads of
                                                                                                                        Taylorsville
 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
                                                                                                                          [North]
5.7-A: Establish relationships with property owners to coordinate a cohesive and shared vision                                                                      N
       for the area.
5.7-B: Conduct a study to determine the existing infrastructure capacity and identify any
       needed upgrades to facilitate desired future development.                                                                 Interstate 215

5.7-C: Conduct a transportation study to better understand vehicle, pedestrian, bike, and
       transit access to and from the area to determine how mobility and infrastructure can be
       improved in the larger area to facilitate the city’s vision.
5.7-D: Explore the fiscal implications of introducing a variety of land uses into this district (e.g.,   Illustration 5.3.6:
       entertainment, hospitality, cultural, office, residential, and mixed-use infill).                 Center Point District Economic Development Priority
                                                                                                         Area.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                               5-24
South Redwood Road (I-215 to 6400 South)
The South Redwood Road priority area may be the most challenging redevelopment area in the
City based largely on accessibility and circulation issues related to limited access and excessive
traffic congestion. Despite direct access from I-215, this area is largely underutilized with a                           Interstate 215
variety of unrelated land uses. This priority area contains approximately 49 acres and includes 49
individual properties ranging in size from less than 1/4 acre to 7.7 acres (Storage Plus Self
Storage). Of note, Redwood Road between I-215 and 6200 South is the most traveled surface
street in Utah.
Primary redevelopment objectives for this area include maximizing land use potential, improved
compatibility between uses, physical design enhancements, and improved circulation and
ingress/egress. Land uses in the area may continue to be varied in nature, however better
compatibility, buffering, and connectivity should be prioritized. Given the proximity of the
freeway interchange and the successful retail development in the Center Point District, economic
development should be a target of future redevelopment efforts.
This economic development priority area is also identified as a target site-specific planning area




                                                                                                                                 Redwood Road
in Chapter 3: Land Use. Please refer to pages 3-45 through 3-47 of this Plan for additional
strategies and area-specific information.

 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Objective 5.8: Prioritize Redevelopment in
 the South Redwood Road District.
                                                                                                        6200 South
 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
5.8-A:    Conduct a transportation study to better understand vehicle, pedestrian, bike, and
          transit access to and from the area to determine how mobility and infrastructure can be                     Sterigenics
          improved to facilitate the city and property owners’ vision.
                                                                                                                       Campus
5.8-B:    Explore city-initiated efforts to promote the acquisition and assemblage of multiple
          contiguous sites to bring to market a site that is larger or more logically shaped.
5.8-C:    Explore the fiscal implications of introducing a variety of land uses into this district
          (e.g., entertainment, hospitality, cultural, office, residential, and mixed-use infill).
5.8-D:    Advocate and support efforts for a regional Redwood Road transit line (BRT) connecting                                                N
          Southern Salt Lake County with Salt Lake City.



                                                                                                     Illustration 5.3.7:
                                                                                                     South Redwood Road Economic Development Priority
                                                                                                     Area.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                           5-25
4700 South (Taylorsville Expressway)
The Taylorsville Expressway Station Area Master Plan, adopted as an addendum to this Plan,
provides a detailed strategy for future growth and development within this site specific planning
                                                                                                                               Monte Vista
district. The Station Area Master Plan was a requirement of HB462 adopted during the 2022
                                                                                                                               Mobile Home
Utah Legislative session, requiring all local governments in the state with transit stations on a
                                                                                                                                Community
“fixed guideway” to address: housing; housing affordability; environmental practices; access to
opportunity; and connectivity for properties within 1/4 mile of the station platforms.
                                                                                                                 Sorenson                Majestic Oaks
The Station Area Master Plan provides a detailed analysis of existing conditions, provides a                    Research Park            Mobile Home
vision statement and preferred plan, and includes a 5-year implementation plan. For more                                                  Community
information, please refer to Chapter 3: Land Use (pages 3-47 through 3-50) of this Plan and the
                                                                                                                                              Majestic
associated addendum, Taylorsville Expressway Station Area Master Plan, for additional
                                                                                                                                              Meadows
information.                                                                                                                                 Mobile Home
                                                                                                                                             Community




                                                                                                                                                     Fore Lakes
                                                                                                                                                     Golf Course

                                                                                                               Midvalley Express Bus Rapid Transit




                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                             Redwood Road




                                                                                                    Illustration 5.3.8:
                                                                                                    Taylorsville Expressway Station Area Economic
                                                                                                    Development Priority Area.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                                                                                    5-26
5.4 Economic Prosperity and Resilience Measuring Success
Measuring the success of Taylorsville’s economic development strategies requires a multi-
faceted approach that goes beyond financial metrics alone. Impacts on both the local economy
and the community as a whole should be considered. Key indicators include economic growth,
job creation and retention, wealth creation, and overall community well-being. While additional
research and detailed studies are needed, as proposed in this Plan, the following metrics should
be documented at regular intervals to gauge progress towards achieving the city’s vision and
goals:
    1.   Overall business growth and retention: based on the number of businesses operating in
         the City and how long they remain operating in Taylorsville. This can be tracked through
         the number of business licenses in Taylorsville.
    2.   Tax revenue: based on the net difference of overall tax revenue from property and sales
         tax. Increasing revenues indicates a thriving local economy and contributes to the City’s
         ability to invest in services and infrastructure. Retail occupancy rates and minimizing
         leakage also contribute to this metric.
    3.   Private investment and development: based on the amount of private capital invested in
         new buildings, infrastructure, and commercial projects.
    4.   Job creation and workforce development: based on the number of total workers in
         Taylorsville, the net number of jobs created by businesses through expansion and new
         establishment, and worker wage growth.
    5.   Population growth, household income, and housing affordability: based on observed net
         changes to population demographics, household income, and median home sales prices
         relative to other peer cities and the region. These metrics contribute to the overall
         community well-being and quality of life.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 5: Economic Prosperity and Resilience                            5-27
