2 Community Character
Taylorsville is a forward thinking City with a rich history. The City will work diligently to preserve it    ’s historic assets
and enhance our close -knit community of neighborhoods. Well designed and thoughtfully integrated business districts,
gateways, corridors and streetscapes will reinforce our community pride and identify us as an attractive place to live,
Taylorsville
learn, work, General
                playPlan   Chapter 2: Community Character
                     and retire.                                                                                            2-1
                                                      “The Greatest Asset a City or
                                                      Neighborhood can have is Something
                                                      Different from Every Other Place.”
                                                      Jane Jacobs (1916-2006)
                                                      Author
                                                      Jane Jacobs was an author and urban theorist most famous for writing Death and Life
                                                      of Great American Cities, published in 1961. Death and Life of Great American Cities is
                                                      widely considered the most important book ever written on cities and urbanism.
                                                      Urban planning website, Planetizen, named Jacobs as the “most influential urbanist”
                                                      of all time.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                      2-2
                      Taylorsville General Plan
                      Chapter 2: Community Character
Chapter 2 Contents:
2.1 Components of Community Character
2.2 Existing Conditions
2.3 Community Vision
Community Character Goal: The City of Taylorsville will strive to be
a distinctive community that enhances civic pride and economic
development by placing special emphasis and focus on enhancing
elements of community identity, livability, and by creating a unique
sense of place.
Taylorsville residents have expressed a strong desire to create a community with a clear and
unique identity. The identity of a community—that combination of elements that give it a sense
of place all it’s own—is often referred to as it’s “community character”.
Community character is broadly defined as the natural, visual, emotional, and cultural
characteristics belonging to a particular place. In general, community character is generated by
many factors, such as historic settlement patterns, local architectural styles, streetscapes, public
art, neighborhoods, geographic features, and community landscapes. Beyond its emotional pull,
community character is also important to the economic well-being of the community, and
influences locational decisions of both residents and businesses.
Taylorsville is an established community that embraces continuous improvement. The quest for
continued economic viability, civic pride, and quality of life inspires Taylorsville to strengthen it’s
culturally diverse and multi-generational neighborhoods, enhance it’s commercial centers
through strategic redevelopment, and proactively integrate open space assets to create a rich
and vibrant community and strong community image.
                                                                                                          100 Items by Tooza Design.
To promote these objectives, Taylorsville must strive for development that is of high quality,
                                                                                                          Mid-Valley Performing Arts Center.
reinforces valued aspects of the City, and demonstrates respect for the public realm.


Taylorsville General Plan        Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                2-3
Implementing higher expectations for design and maintenance for both public and private
development will ensure each new project will add value and long term stability to the
community.
Although very little vacant land remains in Taylorsville, continued rapid growth of the Salt Lake
Metropolitan Area will ensure that change and opportunities for improvement will continue for
many years to come. The City must continue to evolve and pioneer new ways to improve the
character of the community by steering new forward thinking economic investment to older
commercial properties that are ready for redevelopment, improving uninviting streetscapes and
other public spaces, and stabilizing neighborhoods through infrastructure and other investment.
Taylorsville must also actively continue to explore strategies to enrich social engagement,
including community gatherings, recreational activities, and celebrating our shared history.
Taylorsville’s traditions of seasonal cultural events are treasured by its citizens. Community
events, such as Taylorsville Dayzz, Starry Nights, and Plaza+Art are very important to residents,
and are representative of a great quality of life. All of these elements reinforce Taylorsville’s
positive image as a great place to live and work.




                                                                                                    Centennial Plaza.
                                                                                                    Opened in 2021, Centennial Plaza contributes to
                                                                                                    Taylorsville’s distinctive sense of community by providing a
                                                                                                    unique setting for city celebrations and events.




Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                 2-4
2.1 Community Character Components of Community Character
With the formulation of the City’s first General Plan in 1997, and through subsequent updates,
Taylorsville has sought to prioritize establishing a unique sense of community to help bond the
citizens of the City and create a sense of civic pride. Having been primarily developed under the                  UPDATE PICTURE
jurisdiction of Salt Lake County prior to the city’s incorporation in 1996, little effort was given to
creating a unique sense of place to this area and the policies and rules that governed
development of Taylorsville were virtually identical to other unincorporated areas of the county.
This latest update to the Taylorsville General Plan continues to prioritize sense of place and
recognizes that community character is achieved primarily through attention to design details.
The concept of community character is a broad subject that can cover many topics depending
on geography, local politics, priorities, history, settlement patterns, as well as other matters.
What may be important or applicable in one community may have little relevance in another.
Taking that into account, the Taylorsville General Plan has narrowed the discussion of
community character to the following eight general categories based on subject matter
particularly applicable to this community:
    1.   Streetscapes
    2.   Building design and orientation
    3.   Site design and landscaping
    4.   Public art
    5.   Celebrating community
    6.   Gateways and wayfinding
    7.   Community branding                                                                              “A great city is one that engages all
    8.   History and historic preservation
                                                                                                         our senses, sparking emotions, and
Each of these topics vary in terms of complexity, cost, and difficulty to define and quantify. Some
are primarily physical while others are social. It is important to understand, however, that there is    creating memorable experiences.”
no “silver bullet” that will single handedly enrich community character. Rather, community
character happens incrementally and often progresses as a community evolves and matures.                              - Kevin Lynch
Opportunities to implement important community character enhancements may occur as private
redevelopment and land use changes happen over time while others may be large or small
public improvement projects.




Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                             2-5
2.2 Community Character Existing Conditions
Streetscapes
Beginning in the early 20th century, escalating after World War II, and continuing today, the
nation’s predominant form of transportation is the automobile. One of the results of the
nation’s emphasis on automotive transportation is that most Americans experience
communities, and form their perceptions and opinions of communities, by what they witness
from within a vehicle. Another result is that many streets in the country have become
increasingly focused singularly on moving cars, with little regard to other traditional aspects of
the street such as social interaction, pedestrian activity, and aesthetics. Perhaps more than any
other singular element of a city, community character and the image of a city is defined by that
collection of features that can be observed from a street corridor, often referred to as
streetscapes. However, despite much of our national wealth being entwined in the nation’s
network of local, regional, and interstate roads and streets, many transportation corridors
contribute nothing towards the quality of the community beyond traffic circulation.
Streetscapes involve many different community elements, including components of the public
realm, such as sidewalks, parkstrips, street lighting, street furnishings, street trees/landscaping,
utility infrastructure, and sometimes even the street itself. In addition, elements of the private
realm can also have a profound impact on a streetscape quality, including architectural value,
how buildings address the street, parking lots, signage, fencing, and private landscaping. A city
of ugly streets will generally be perceived by outsiders as an unattractive and undesirable
community—primarily because the street is where most people will experience the community.
Streetscapes Existing Conditions
Since incorporation, the City has made significant progress in improving streetscapes in the
community by planting street trees, replacing dilapidated fences with higher quality concrete
walls, and rebuilding entire streets to be more efficient and aesthetically pleasing. However,
there is still much work to be done. Some streets located within Taylorsville remain visually
unattractive and often create harsh and uninviting spaces.
Many of the region's busiest surface streets are located within the City, and in many instances
automotive functionality has been prioritized over pedestrian needs and aesthetic quality. Major
streets within the City, including 4700 South, 5400 South, Redwood Road, 6200 South, and
Bangerter Highway all have significant stretches with poor streetscape quality.
                                                                                                       Illustration 2.2.1
Successful streetscapes are generally integrated designs incorporating several aspects of the          Redwood Road Streetscapes.
streetscape into a comprehensive system. In 2007 the City completed a comprehensive                    Two vastly different streetscapes, both on Redwood Road in
streetscape and access management project on Redwood Road between 5400 South and I-215                 Taylorsville, clearly demonstrate the importance of
to help solidify the commercial viability of this important retail district of the city. The Redwood   streetscape features in defining a city’s image and sense of
Road project increased automotive throughput by consolidating driveways, improving drive               identity.


Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                  2-6
approaches, and constructing bus turn outs while simultaneously greatly enhancing the visual
quality of the road by widening park strips, planting street trees, constructing landscaped street
medians, installing decorative lighting, and placing overhead utility wires underground. This
project demonstrated that increasing auto efficiency and aesthetics aren’t mutually exclusive.
The city has also made significant investments over the last 15 years in replacing dilapidated and
mismatched fencing on many of it’s major streets, including significant stretches of 5400 South,
Redwood Road, 4100 South, 4700 South, 2700 West, and 3200 West (see illustration 2.3.1 on
page 2-20). The new walls have been constructed of high quality durable materials utilizing
consistent colors to help unify different locations within the city.
In 2023, the city in partnership with the Utah Department of Transportation, implemented partial
streetscape improvements on Redwood Road between 4100 South and 5400 South. Most
significantly was the burial of prominent and obtrusive overhead power lines. 2025 will bring
notable improvements to the Taylorsville Expressway east of Redwood Road by planting
hundreds of new street trees, constructing new multi-use trails, and other streetscape
improvements as part of the new Mid-Valley Express bus rapid transit project.
Numerous other, smaller, streetscape improvements have been implemented by the city over
the last two decades. However with all the work that has been completed, there are still
significant streetscape deficiencies throughout the community.

Building Design and Orientation
Like streetscapes, architectural value has a profound impact on the perceived quality of a
community. Less appreciated, however, is building orientation and how a building addresses the
street. How a building is oriented impacts the quality of the public realm and how we perceive
our communities. Buildings that turn their backs to the street or have a poor relationship to the
street send the not so subtle message that the public realm is not important or deserving of
respect. Buildings that face the street, but are set behind large parking lots create an
environment where streets are shaped and defined by asphalt rather than architecture, and that          Illustration 2.2.2
cars, not pedestrians, are the priority. Generally, the most appropriate way to design buildings        Building Orientation.
within an urban environment is to not only focus on architectural quality, but also the building’s      How buildings address a public street greatly impacts the
relationship to the public street.                                                                      quality and perception of the public realm. Designing a
                                                                                                        building so that it addresses the adjacent street greatly
Building Design and Orientation Existing Conditions                                                     enhances the perception of the street (above). Turning a
Commercial structures in Taylorsville are generally constructed in one of three different               building backwards to the street sends the message that
scenarios: 1) the building is set behind a parking lot and faces towards the parking lot and public     the public street is not important (below).
street, 2) the structure is pulled towards the front of the lot and oriented towards the street with
parking to the side and/or rear of the building, or 3) the building is pulled to the front of the lot
and turned backwards or sideways to the street facing a parking lot located to the rear/and or
side or the building. Taylorsville has numerous examples of each situation, however the majority


Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                  2-7
of commercial buildings constructed in the city are oriented towards the street but set behind a
parking lot (option #1 above). This option is generally the most auto oriented scenario as it
places building entrances adjacent to parking areas. Although this orientation is more desirable
than structures that are turned backwards to the street, it diminishes walkability, streetscape
quality, and connectivity to the public realm.

Site Design and Landscaping
Site design, landscape design and landscape maintenance play very important roles in how
places are perceived, especially in suburban environments like Taylorsville. As water usage
becomes increasingly scrutinized, water conservation and efficiency will become progressively
important. Understanding drought tolerant design, xeriscaping, and efficient irrigation will be
imperative in the coming decades.

Site Design and Landscaping Existing Conditions
With approximately 37% of the land coverage in Taylorville made up of grass, tree canopy, and
other plantings1, landscaping obviously plays a significant role in the overall character of the city.
Landscaping plays a key role in the aesthetic value of both commercial and residential districts
and significantly affects property values, desirability, and community pride. Streetside
landscaping in many commercial parts of the city has been impacted by repeated road widening
projects to the point where there are many locations in the community that have little to no
landscaping between parking lots and street right-of-ways. Most newer developments have
landscape setbacks composed primarily of grass, shrubbery, and small trees. As water
conservation continues to be stressed by local leaders, many properties in the city have
converted to xeriscape style landscapes featuring drought tolerant designs. Although well
conceived xeriscape plans can add great beauty and value to a place, poorly designed xeriscapes
that feature very little living material or high maintenance designs can have detrimental
aesthetic impacts.

Public Art
Public art is art in any media whose form, function, or meaning are created for the general public
and located, or viewable, from a public place. Public art can play a meaningful role in a
community’s objective of creating a unique sense of place as most artwork is distinctive and
often tailored to a places particular circumstances.

Public Art Existing Conditions
Over the last 15 years Taylorsville has made significant progress towards the goal of establishing
more public art in the community. Taylorsville City Hall, Mid-Valley Performing Arts Center, and
Centennial Plaza have all initiated new art installations in the previous decade. Coincidentally,        Illustration 2.2.3
however, virtually all public art within the community is located within a very small geographical       Landscaping
                                                                                                         Landscaping clearly impacts perceived quality and sense of
1
    Source: i-Tree Canopy Cover Assessment and Tree Benefits Report, 12-2-24.                            place.

Taylorsville General Plan              Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                           2-8
                                                                                                                ADAGIO
                                                                                                                Mid-Valley Performing Arts
                                                                                                                Center [interior], 2021
                                                                                                                Designed by Danielle Roney
        Remembering Those Who
                  Remembered Us
    Taylorsville Veterans Memorial
          Taylorsville City Hall, 2009
          Designed by Justin Wilson
           Sculpted by Brad Taggart




                                                                                                                    100 Items
                                                                                                                    Mid-Valley Performing Arts
                                                                                                                    Center [exterior], 2021
                                                                                                                    Designed by Tooza Design




                       Plaza+ART
 Annual Revolving Art Program
            Centennial Plaza, 2021
                                                                                      UPDATE           Stone Crescent
                                                                                                       5400 South 2460 West (Harvey Heights
                                                                                                       Drive), 2006
 Annual art display sponsored by
  the City of Taylorsville featuring                                                 PICTURE           Designed by MGB+A Urban Design
                                                                                                         Studio.
      19 individual pieces rotated
                           annually.




                                                      Map 2.2.4: Existing Public Art In Taylorsville

Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                2-9
area within or adjacent to Taylorsville City Center [see Map 2.2.4. Existing Public Art in
Taylorsville].
    Existing Public Art Installations in Taylorsville:
    ▪ Remembering Those Who Remembered Us (Veterans Memorial). 2600 West Taylorsville Blvd.
      Designed by Justin Wilson and dedicated November 11, 2009, the Taylorsville Veterans
      Memorial is adjacent to the main entrance of Taylorsville City Hall. Titled “Remembering
      Those who Remembered Us”, Justin Wilson’s design pays homage to the home front and
      the reunification of families.
    ▪ Stone Crescent. 5400 South/Harvey Heights Drive (2460 Harvey Heights Drive).
      Designed by the MGB+A Urban Design Studio and installed in 2006 on a remnant property
      created by a reconfiguration of the intersection of 5400 South and Harvey Heights Drive.
      Stone Crescent is comprised of 11 individual stone steles placed in a crescent shape
      mimicking the curvature of the adjacent roadway.
    ▪ 100 Items. Mid-Valley Performing Arts Center (exterior). 2525 West Taylorsville Blvd.
      Designed by Tooza Design and installed on the plaza outside the Mid-Valley Performing
      Arts Center. 100 Items is comprised of custom metal etchings reflecting the Taylorsville
      community and constructed as part of the Salt Lake County Percent for Art program which
      reserves one percent of capital improvement project funds to the commission, purchase,
      and installation of public artworks at County facilities
▪     ADAGIO. Midvalley Performing Arts Center (lobby). 2525 West Taylorsville Blvd.
      Designed by New York artist Danielle Roney, ADAGIO is comprised of 1,343 polished
      stainless steel spheres attached to a linear frame. ADAGIO’s shape was inspired by the
      movement of a dancer and was also installed as part of the County’s Percent for Art
      program.
    ▪ Plaza+ART at Centennial Plaza. 2600 West 5400 South.
      Established in 2021, the Plaza+ART series is a revolving art program comprised of 19
      individual locations within Centennial Plaza. The program includes the installation of
      privately owned exterior art pieces at each location within the Plaza. Each piece remains at
      Centennial Plaza for a period one year with new pieces rotated in annually.

Celebrating Community
Although community events and celebrations don’t necessarily have a direct relationship with
the physical development of a community, indirectly celebrations can have a profound impact
on community character by raising an appreciation of civic pride, sense of place, neighborhood
identity, and the image of a city. The City of Taylorsville is a community that values its heritage,   Illustration 2.2.4 Concerts at Centennial Plaza
its citizens, and its sense of community, and in an effort to strengthen community identity, the       Community events and celebrations, like this free concert at
                                                                                                       Centennial Plaza, contribute to civic pride, sense of place,
City has continued to establish new places and traditions to celebrate its unique heritage and         and strengthen neighborhood identify.
culture. Celebrating the City strengthens residents’ understanding and appreciation of


Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                  2-10
themselves and their community by reminding them of their traditions and values. Community
celebrations also build new relationships and strengthen existing relationships within the City.
Celebrating Community Existing Conditions
In October 2021, Taylorsville City opened Centennial Plaza at Taylorsville City Center to act as
Taylorsville’s “community family room” to host community events and celebrations. Phase one of
Centennial Plaza’s development included a live performance stage, amphitheater, open spaces,
pavilions, public art pedestals, and various other smaller gathering places to dine and interact.
Since it’s opening in 2021 the Plaza has hosted numerous community events and celebrations
including Starry Nights (movies in the park and live musical performances), the Taylorsville
Farmers Market, Night Out Against Crime, food truck gatherings, Plaza+ART revolving art show,
and various other community events. Future master planned phases of the Centennial Plaza
master plan include playground spaces, outdoor skating, and shaded gathering areas.
Adjacent to Centennial Plaza at City Center is the Mid-Valley Performing Arts Center (PAC), a
state-of-the-art facility featuring proscenium and black box theaters that host local and regional
performances. The Mid-Valley PAC also opened in 2021 and is operated by Salt Lake County Arts
and Culture.
Within easy walking distance of Taylorsville City Center is the Gary C. Swensen Valley Regional
Park, home to the city’s premier community celebration, Taylorsville Dayzz. 2025 will mark the       Illustration 2.2.5 Centennial Plaza
29th annual Taylorsville Dayzz celebration which draws thousands of visitors from throughout         Taylorsville’s “Community Family Room.”
the community and region. Taylorsville Dayzz features a local parade, carnival rides, food booths,   Since it’s opening in 2021, Centennial Plaza has hosted
concerts, and the county’s most famous fireworks show.                                               numerous community events and celebrations including
                                                                                                     Starry Nights (movies in the park and live musical
Gateways and Wayfinding                                                                              performances), the Taylorsville Farmers Market, Night Out
Although Taylorsville is a long established community located in the heart of Salt Lake County,      Against Crime, food truck gatherings, Plaza+ART revolving
                                                                                                     art show, and various other community events.
the City has largely developed as a traditional suburban community within the larger Salt Lake
metropolitan area with few distinguishing or defining boundaries that identify Taylorsville. Due
to this pattern of continuous development, Taylorsville tends to “blend” together with it’s
adjacent communities. Residents have expressed concern that despite being in the center of the
Salt Lake Valley, many visitors to the City often do not know where Taylorsville starts and ends.

Gateways and Wayfinding Existing Conditions
To help address this issue, in April, 2015, the Taylorsville City Council adopted the Taylorsville
Signage Master Plan establishing recommendations to complete a unified system of public
signage. The plan identifies signage strategies at key locations within the city such as gateways
into the community, parks, trails, and important community buildings. The plan identifies
recommendations for massing, scale, materials, colors, etc. Following adoption of the plan,
Taylorsville has constructed signs at numerous gateway and community locations (see map 2.2.6)
throughout the city. Since construction, however, some of the signs have suffered from
vandalism, lack of maintenance, and deteriorated landscaping. Additionally, several previously

Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                              2-11
               Key:

               Gateway sign (new design)

               Gateway sign (old design)

               Park sign (new design)

               Park sign (old design)


                                                                                                                           Cabana Park




                                                                                                                       Taylorsville Park/Taylorsville Senior Center


                                           Taylorsville Recreation Center                              Vista Park (East)

                                                                            Vista Park (West)




                                           Bennion Park




           Azure Meadows Park
                                                                                         Labrum Park




                                                        Map 2.2.6: Existing Gateway and Community Signage

Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                        2-12
constructed signs with outdated branding and logo designs still exist that should be removed or
replaced.
In addition to the gateway and locational signs, the community could also benefit from a
wayfinding signage program, particularly on the city’s evolving trails system. Although there is
no wayfinding program currently in place, a well thought out system could help bring positive
aspects to the community, enhancing community connectivity with signage illustrating historical
information, educational markers, information about recreation programs, maps, marketing, etc.

Community Branding
A method for bringing unique character, uniformity and congruent design to the community is
through an urban design “branding” strategy. As cities in Salt Lake County have continued to
expand, wall to wall cities now exist in most parts of the county making it difficult to recognize
where one community starts and another ends. Prior to incorporation in 1996, little effort was
made by Salt Lake County to bring a unique sense of place to Taylorsville. Most county building
standards and regulations for Taylorsville were identical to other unincorporated areas of the
county at the time such as Holladay, Kearns, Cottonwood Heights, Magna, and Millcreek.
                                                                                                        Illustration 2.2.7 Urban Design Branding
Following incorporation the City formally and informally began efforts to carve out a unique
                                                                                                        City Hall: A Palette for the Taylorsville “Look”.
sense of community through the use of consistent colors and building materials in various
                                                                                                        Materials and colors from Taylorsville City Hall, such as the
public improvement projects.
                                                                                                        tan stone work, gray trim, and brushed aluminum window
“Branding” is an integral concept in the business, public relations, and advertising world. It is       frames, have been applied to the design and construction of
much less applied from a community or urban design perspective. Branding is loosely defined as          various other public improvements in the City to help bring
the promotion of a product or company by means of a distinctive design. Business branding               a cohesive look and feel to the City.
strategies typically involve such elements as logos, colors, fonts, taglines, corporate architecture,
etc. Likewise, a communities branding strategy might involve logos, fonts, colors and taglines,
but also additional elements of the built environment such as the color and style of street lights
and other street furnishings, building materials, and community signage.
Community Branding Existing Conditions
Taylorsville began it’s urban design branding strategy with the construction of Taylorsville City
Hall in 2003. Designed in the Arts and Crafts style to acknowledge the City’s agrarian past,
traditional materials and colors were carefully selected that would the represent the history and
geography of Taylorsville and the Salt Lake Valley while also giving a nod to the present and
future with the subtle use of contemporary colors and materials. The Salt Lake region’s mid-
western roots are represented with the use of red brick, the stone earth tones symbolize the
earth and soil that was the life blood of the early residents of the community, and finally the
more contemporary brushed silver and gray details represented today and the optimism of the
future. City Hall was so well embraced by the community that it became an archetype for many
future city improvements and became the palette of the community’s urban design branding
strategy.


Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                  2-13
Soon after the completion of City Hall in 2003, the City began the design and construction of the
Taylorsville Senior Center located in Taylorsville Park. It was decided that the new building would
again be designed in the same style as City Hall utilizing similar colors and materials. The end
result was a building very reminiscent of City Hall and the ‘Taylorsville Look’ had unofficially
taken roots. Subsequent projects informally utilizing this canvas of materials and colors included
the Redwood Road Streetscape and Access Management Project (5400 South to Interstate I-
215), pedestrian crosswalks over 6200 South, and beautification walls spread throughout the
community. In 2015 the City took it’s first formal step in applying the design theme when it
adopted the Taylorsville Gateway and Community Signage Master Plan utilizing the Taylorsville
palette of materials. The plan established basic design standards for new signage at gateway
locations, community buildings, and open spaces. The plan also identified an additional palette
of colors to provide contrast and vibrancy for selected types of signs. Since the adoption of the
plan numerous signs have been constructed at various locations throughout the City [see Map
2.2.6]. Additionally several projects have been completed using the design strategy including
Plymouth Fire station #117 at 4965 South Redwood Road and Centennial Plaza at 2600 West
5400 South (see Illustration 2.2.8). Improvements associated with the Mid-Valley Express BRT
currently under construction will also utilize the branding strategy.



Illustration 2.2.8:
Taylorsville Branding
These images illustrate various examples of Taylorsville’s urban
design branding efforts. Consistent colors and materials have
been utilized to help bring congruency throughout the
community. Clockwise from top: UFA Plymouth Station #117
(4965 South Redwood Road). Tan stone and brushed aluminum
window frames reflex the Taylorsville material palette while the
use of red on the garage doors and arbor structures signify the
unique use of the building; Centennial Plaza Arbor (2600 West
5400 South). Tan stone utilized on arbor and planters and
brushed aluminum streetlights and other street furnishings used
throughout the site; Beautification walls (5400 South and other
locations throughout the community). Concrete walls painted to
mimic tan stone; Redwood Road Streetscape (Redwood Road
between 5400 South and Interstate 215). Tan stone retaining
walls with brushed aluminum street lights, bus shelters, and
other street furnishings; Park Sign (5049 South 2200 West and
throughout community).




Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 2: Community Character                                         2-14
History and Historic Preservation
Preservation of historic structures and sites helps current and future generations to experience a
community's unique story and heritage. Continuing to identify, preserve, and respect important
sites and buildings will provide a link to the City's roots as it builds into the future.
Architecture of the Recent Past
Perhaps less understood and appreciated than the architecture of the late 19th and early 20th
centuries is the architecture of the “recent past”. Although the history and historic structures
built by the early inhabitants of Taylorsville is locally important, Taylorsville also played a role in
one of the most significant and dramatic “events” in human history; one that fundamentally
changed the way most Americans now live: the suburbanization of America. Indeed, most
Americans prior to World War II lived in rural or urban settings. Following World War II, however,
with newer and emerging technologies such as the automobile, telephone, and television,
Americans were more able than ever before to leave urban and rural locations and settle in quiet
areas like Taylorsville, just outside the central city. Through the first half of the 20th century,
Taylorsville was primarily a rural community. But in the late 1950s, just over a decade after the
war, Taylorsville began to see the first movement towards suburbanization into this area. Over
the next three decades, Taylorsville fundamentally evolved into a completely different type of
community.
Is the architecture and history of these early suburban inhabitants important and worthy of
preservation?
What is Recent Past Architecture?
Although the original pioneer settlements that eventually emerged as the community of
Taylorsville happened about 175 years ago, the vast majority the built environment within the
city today was constructed within the past 65 years, beginning in the late 1950s. During this
period of rapid growth, architectural vernacular and land development patterns across the
country often embodied the aspirations, priorities, challenges and successes of the times. For
example, societal trends of the 1950’s and 60’s could be seen in the rapid development of
suburban neighborhoods, corner gas stations with sweeping awnings that reflect the image of
the jet age, commercial signage with designs inspired by the space race, and even the auto
oriented commercial strip malls. These structures and building patterns, which represent the
idealism and societal norms of the “modern” era, are referred to as the architecture of the
“recent past.”
Why is Recent Past Architecture Important?
Like other elements of modern society, most recent past architecture and land development
patterns have become dated and unappreciated. Such unfashionable structures usually generate
little sympathy when abandoned or demolished within a neighborhood. Interestingly, many
“historic” forms of architecture, such as Victorian or Arts & Crafts were at one time considered as


Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 2: Community Character                                            2-15
outdated and undesirable, however those that survived are now important and desirable places
within our communities.
But the story of the recent past cannot be told through such iconic architecture alone. Other,
less prominent places are also important to a community’s identity and history. The National
Center for Cultural Resources has recently stated that, “Now is the time to reassess the marginal    Illustration 2.2.9:
value currently placed on buildings from the recent past, and to work toward their continued use     Sales Brochure from an early 1960s Taylorsville
and sensitive rehabilitation. While much has been lost already, a wealth of creative examples        subdivision development. Although these “recent past”
                                                                                                     homes aren’t considered architecturally significant today,
survive to remind us of who we were and how we lived during the past century. The
                                                                                                     these early suburban developments illustrate one of the
characteristics of these buildings, the features and qualities that make them unique to their time
                                                                                                     most significant changes in the way people lived in
are a benefit not a burden.”
                                                                                                     American history.




Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                 2-16
Historic Preservation Existing Conditions
Prior to the late 1950s Taylorsville was largely a dispersed agrarian community and consequently
had relatively few structures. Unlike many small towns, Taylorsville also didn’t have a significant
downtown or commercial center. Other than a small node near 4800 South and Redwood Road
anchored by Joseph S. Lindsey and Company (later the Taylorsville Mercantile), no significant
commercial buildings were constructed in the City. Today, no commercial buildings exist in
Taylorsville constructed prior to the 1949.
Much of what remains of Taylorsville’s agrarian past are residential buildings found within the
Taylorsville 4800 South Historic District generally located on 4800 South between 1130 West
and 1625 West [see Map 2.2.12]. Several notable and well preserved buildings remain within the          Illustration 2.2.10:
District including Taylorsville's only two structures listed on the National Register of Historic       Taylorsville's Oldest Commercial Architecture .
Places: Taylorsville-Bennion Heritage Center (Gerrard House aka Jones Dairy Home) 1488 W                Although not architecturally significant, these two neighbor-
4800 S, and the Alrasool Islamic Center of Utah, (Taylorsville LDS Ward Meeting House) 1247 W           ing structures are the oldest commercial buildings in the
4800 S.                                                                                                 city, 4772-4778 So Redwood (left) constructed in 1955, and
                                                                                                        4768 So Redwood (right) constructed in 1949 .
Recent Past.                                                                                            Source: Salt Lake County Assessor
Very little commercial architecture from the early periods of Taylorsville suburban development
still exist today. In fact, only two commercial buildings constructed prior to 1960 still exist, next
door neighbors at 4768 South Redwood Road (1949) and 4772-4778 South Redwood Road
(1955). Neither of these structures are architecturally significant beyond their ages. Perhaps the
most architecturally significant building remaining from the early days of suburban Taylorsville is
the former Safeway/Albertsons building located at 4860 South Redwood Road (currently True
Value Hardware) constructed in 1963. Although typical of early suburban grocery store design,
the building has seen only minor modifications over the years and features a mid-century
modern design with a glass store front and vaulted roof. The remaining shopping center
adjacent to True Value was constructed in 1964 and 1967.

Unlike commercial architecture, hundreds of residential structures built in the 1950s and 1960s
still exist in the City. Most of these early suburban neighborhoods are generally in the northeast
quadrant of the city and were constructed as starter homes for the numerous young families
settling in the area. Although many of these homes have been remodeled and altered, many still
exist in mostly original condition. Some of the schools in these neighborhoods also still stand
and feature their original mid-century modern designs.


                                                                                                        Illustration 2.2.11:
                                                                                                        Safeway/Albertson's.
                                                                                                        Perhaps Taylorsville’s most architecturally significant
                                                                                                        remaining mid-century commercial building is the 1963
                                                                                                        True Value (former Safeway and Albertson’s) Hardware store
                                                                                                        at 4860 South Redwood Road.

Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                  2-17
                                                                                                                              N
                  4700 South
                                                                                             Fore Lakes
                                                                                             Golf Course

                  Taylorsville
   Redwood Road




                     Park



                                                                  Taylorsville Bennion Heritage Center



                                                                       Taylorsville Historic District
              4800 South




                                                                                                             Alrasool Islamic Center




                                                     Map 2.2.12: Taylorsville 4800 South Historic District


Taylorsville General Plan        Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                    2-18
2.3 Community Character Community Vision
The overall character of a place has a profound influence on behavior towards that place.
Ugliness and monotony breeds contempt while beauty and individuality promotes respect and
civic pride. A city’s image—the perceived form or mental representation of a place—is
significantly impacted by community character and influences economic development, quality of
life, and community investment/reinvestment.
The past decade in Taylorsville has seen considerable progress towards enhancing the city’s
distinctive community identity and sense of place with the construction of several iconic places
and buildings including the Mid-Valley Performing Arts Center, Summit Vista Retirement
Community, Centennial Plaza, and the Taylorsville Temple. Additionally, numerous community
events and celebrations have commenced, such as Plaza+ART, Starry Nights, and the Taylorsville
Farmers Market at Centennial Plaza. Recently announced plans to renovate the historic Alrasool
Islamic Center of Utah (former Taylorsville LDS Ward Meeting House) on 4800 South will further
enhance Taylorsville’s unique sense of history.
Taylorsville will continue to honor and establish it’s unique character as redevelopment occurs,
demographics shift, and events shape our lives.

Streetscapes
In a city like Taylorsville, where roads and roadways occupy such a prominent position within the
community, significant importance should be placed on the overall quality of the streetscape,
including:
▪ Safety for all users of the street
▪ Aesthetics
▪ Multiple-use (complete streets)
▪ Lighting and street furnishings
▪ Accommodation and minimizing impacts of utilities
▪ Trees and landscape
▪ Overall maintenance
▪ Access to adjacent properties
▪ How buildings address the street
▪ Efficiency
In the past, community character improvements such as street tree plantings, enhanced
pedestrian facilities, aesthetic upgrades, and other streetscape enhancements have often been
considered less important than street improvements for traffic capacity. Taylorsville should
develop policies that require a balance between street capacity improvements and streetscape
quality. This can be done by applying context sensitive design strategies for all street projects.



Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 2: Community Character                                         2-19
Continuation of the city’s beautification wall program should also proceed (see illustrations 2.2.8
and 2.3.1) until all applicable areas in the city have been addressed. Established in the early
2000s, this program has replaced many delipidated and mismatched fences in the city and
brought a higher level of aesthetics and safety to many double frontage neighborhoods. A
comprehensive evaluation by the City Engineering and Planning Departments should be
completed to identify all remaining areas of the City that would benefit from new wall
construction. Additionally, city code should be amended to clearly require any new double
frontage development to utilize city standard walls.

Community Character Objective 2.1: Improve community image,
economic development, property values, and neighborhood stability by
enhancing streetscapes throughout the city.

Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
2.1-A: Identify, develop and prioritize new streetscape plans. Develop street specific
        streetscape plans for key locations in the City.
2.1-B: Establish new drought tolerant landscape standards for parkstrips, other landscaping
       within the public right of way, and landscaping in commercial districts adjacent to
       public streets. New standards should emphasize aesthetics, maintenance, and irrigation
       methods.
2.1-C: Update the city’s beautification wall plan.
2.1-D: Improve landscaping and maintenance at city gateway and high visibility locations.
2.1-E: Strengthen existing architectural design standards to improve building design and
       relationship to public streets.
2.1-F: Establish policies and development standards that require quality streetscape design
       and construction.
2.1-G: Plant new street trees as a standard practice for new streetscape and roadway projects.
2.1-H: Improve maintenance and maintenance funding for new and existing streetscapes in the           Illustration 2.3.1
       city.                                                                                          Replacing dilapidated fences and walls.
                                                                                                      Many dilapidated fences and walls, such as this one at 5000
2.1-I: Examine all capital improvement street projects for potential “betterments” that will
                                                                                                      South Redwood Road [top], have been replaced by the
       enhance the aesthetic value of the streetscape.
                                                                                                      city’s beautification wall program [bottom].
2.1-J: Continue to improve streetscapes that promote walkability and provide transportation
       alternatives to citizens of various physical abilities.
2.1-K: Promote an understanding among all applicable groups, departments, and agencies
       that transportation decisions fundamentally affect and influence community character.




Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                               2-20
Street Lighting
Street lighting plays a key role in the character of a community’s streetscapes. Not only does
street lighting provide an important safety element, the personality of a street is greatly
influenced by the style, color, and scale of light poles and fixtures. Coordination and consistency
of street lighting throughout an area, district, or community can greatly enhance the appeal and
character of the place. Currently the City has a combination of singularly utilitarian street lights
and decorative street lights. Many street lights within the community have exceeded their
expected lifespans and are ready to be replaced. As new lights are installed and existing lights
are replaced, it is important to consider the scale, function, and character of the applicable street
to ensure the highest value of this significant public investment.

Community Character Objective 2.2: Establish a comprehensive
streetlighting plan for all street types within the community that will
improve visibility and community aesthetics.

Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
 2.2-A: Establish a formal design consistency strategy for all street lights in the City that
        considers the following elements:
         ▪ Style and color
         ▪ Scale
         ▪ Spacing and location
         ▪ Brightness uniformity
         ▪ Construction quality
 2.2-B: The city’s lighting strategy should establish standard designs for local/neighborhood
        streets, collector streets, and arterial streets. For ease of maintenance and design
        uniformity, consistent parts should be utilized for different types of lights.
 2.2-C: Allow unique lighting districts that include distinct pole and fixture designs that respect
        and complement the character of unique places in the city (e.g. within a historic
        district).
 2.2-D: All lighting designs should be scalable to ensure compatibility with all places in the
        community.
 2.2-E: Install street banner hardware on light poles in key places throughout the city. Banners        “We shape our buildings;
        should be of an appropriate scale for the applicable street and reinforce the sense of
        place for their particular locations.                                                           thereafter they shape us.”
 2.2-F: Incorporate dark sky and reduced light pollution provisions within all new street
        lighting standards and regulations.                                                                   - Winston Churchill




Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                        2-21
Architecture and Building Orientation
Architecture is the art form most present in our every day lives. Architecture defines our
commercial districts, our streets, our neighborhoods, and virtually every facet of our community
existence. How buildings relate to a human environment greatly impacts how a person
experiences a place. Although great architecture may be difficult to define, how a building
relates to its surroundings and the public realm greatly impacts the appeal of a city. New
buildings in the city should be designed with a “civic conscience” by respecting the public realm
and providing physical and visual connectivity. This type of “community oriented” architecture
will reinforce sense of community and the importance of streets.

Architecture and Building Orientation Community Vision
Architectural design should reinforce the community goal of creating a unique sense of place
and high quality living environment. Buildings should respect the public realm by defining the
street and designed with a sense of permeability. New buildings should be unique to Taylorsville
and complement neighboring structures or elevate the condition of an area by using high
quality materials that ensure the long-term sustainability of a building.

 Community Character Objective 2.3: Enhance architectural quality within
 the city.
 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
2.3-A: Continuously analyze and update architectural design standards. New buildings should
       represent the best design of their time in history.
2.3-B: Develop new architectural design standards particular to new development in transit
       oriented, high density residential, and mixed use environments. New standards should
       reinforce pedestrian importance and walkability by giving special attention to street
       level design.
2.3-C: New public buildings in the community should establish a standard of high
       architectural quality.

Site Design and Landscaping
Landscaping quality and maintenance plays a key role in how most places in suburban
environments are perceived. As this region continues to transition from more traditional water
reliant landscapes to more drought tolerant designs, the way that we approach site design and
landscaping will fundamentally change. Lawn heavy designs have been popular over the last
several decades based on their appearance, low cost, and ease of maintenance; but they are
heavy consumers of water, and will therefore become much less prevalent. Landscapes that rely
on the concepts of xeriscape and the use of native plant species will become the norm for most
places. The transition from heavy water to drought tolerant landscaping may be a challenging


Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 2: Community Character                                        2-22
one as designers and property owners struggle to learn the proper application of xeriscape.

Site Design and Landscaping Community Vision
The primary goal of Taylorsville, like many communities in the region, will be to make an easy
transition to drought tolerant landscaping practices. Design, as well as maintenance, will be
fundamentally different than how we’ve addressed landscaping in the past. Irrigation systems
will also need to evolve, as inefficient overhead systems are phased out in favor of more efficient
practices such as drip systems. Many new and existing drought tolerant designs overly rely on
rock mulch with little living plant material. Often these designs lack aesthetic quality, radiate
heat, and are sometimes difficult to maintain as weeds and debris materialize in the landscaped
areas. As the city transitions to these new styles of landscaping, much attention needs to be paid
to proper methods of design and long term maintenance. Trees, especially newly planted trees,
will also struggle with reduced watering. Specific attention needs to be given to the needs of
trees and the irrigation of trees with new landscape regulations and practices.

For more information regarding street trees and Taylorsville's urban forest, please refer to
Chapter 9—Environmental Stewardship.

Community Character Objective 2.4: Improve site design standards to
recognize higher design quality and water conservation.

Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
2.4-A: Update landscape design standards to address drought tolerant landscapes.
2.4-B: Evaluate commercial landscape setback standards. Emphasis should be placed on
       landscape quality rather than quantity.
2.4-C: Establish incentives for high quality drought tolerant designs and efficient irrigation
       systems
2.4-D: Establish a contract relationship with a landscape architect to assist the City in updating
       landscape design regulations, tree planting standards, and site plan review.
2.4-E: Establish a contract relationship with a professional arborist to administer the city’s urban
       forest.
2.4-F: Review and amend the City’s development standards for fencing, signage, street lighting,
       landscaping and streetscape requirements for residential and commercial areas to
       promote consistent quality and unity in site design and community appearance.
2.4-G: Establish specific standards for the irrigation of trees within the community.
2.4-H: Maintain all City-owned properties and facilities to a high standard to set the bar for
       property maintenance and pride of ownership throughout the City.




Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 2: Community Character                                           2-23
Public Art
Taylorsville has taken significant strides in the establishment of public art in the previous decade.
Existing locations, however, are concentrated within a very small geographic area in the City.
Beyond the limited area around Taylorsville City Hall, Centennial Plaza, and Mid-Valley
Performing Arts Center, public art has virtually no presence in the City. The Taylorsville General
Plan recommends continued expansion of the city’s public art programs to a more diverse
footprint by expanding to more locations within the City. The presence of public art in a larger
area will expose more residents and visitors to the positive qualities of public art and enhance
the desirability and character of additional places in the city.

Public Art Community Vision
Public art can help establish community identity and create a deep sense of belonging. Art
contributes to placemaking and should be spread throughout the community to clearly
demonstrate that all areas of the city are deserving of artistic celebration. Several options exist
that could facilitate additional art in the city including partnering with other agencies and
entities, providing incentives to private development for the inclusion of art within public
gathering places, and commissioning or purchasing art for specific locations in the city. In
addition to stand alone artwork, the city should look for opportunities in integrate art with
traditionally utilitarian features of the community, like bridges, streetscapes, transit
improvements, road medians, playgrounds, and utility boxes and pedestals (see illustration 2.3.2).

 Community Character Objective 2.5: Broaden Taylorsville's public art
 strategy.

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
 2.5-A: Establish a formal public art policy that addresses community standards, liability,
        maintenance, annual funding requests, selection processes, etc.
 2.5-B: Seek annual funding for a permanent art installation or fund.
 2.5-C: Establish locations for permanent art installations that address Taylorsville history,          Illustration 2.3.2
        culture, and public service.                                                                    Art in non-traditional places.
 2.5-D: Identify locations and place types for new art installations such as road medians,              Infrastructure as public art [above].
        freeway interchanges, public facilities, parks, plazas, etc..                                   Even infrastructure such as this bridge in Westminster,
 2.5-E: Establish a 1% for Art program for all new Taylorsville public facilities.                      Colorado can enhance community character through the
 2.5-F: Establish permanent art facilities at all stations on the Mid-Valley Express bus rapid          use of “betterments” for public art.
        transit system.                                                                                 Is it public art or playground equipment [below]?
 2.5-G: Examine all capital improvement projects for potential “betterments” that will facilitate       Many forms of public improvement are also opportunities
        the installation of public art.                                                                 to establish public art within the community such as this
                                                                      [Continued on next page]          beautifully designed playground equipment.
                                                                                                        Image: Berliner Play Equipment


Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                2-24
Community Character Objective 2.5: Broaden Taylorsville's public art
strategy [continued from previous page].

Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
2.5-H: Work with UDOT for the installation of dual purpose gateway/public art on 4700 South
       and Redwood Road I-215 interchanges.
2.5-I: Install permanent art pieces dedicated to public safety at the Centennial Plaza Central
       Plaza.
2.5-J: Establish an annual budget line item that will enable the city to annually or periodically
       purchase a Plaza+Art piece for permanent placement somewhere within the city.
2.5-K: Encourage/incentivize public art at high intensity mixed use and residential
       developments.
2.5-L: Establish a utility box cover art program.
                                                                                                      Public Art at Freeway Interchanges.
                                                                                                      Artist impression of a gateway public art installation at the
                                                                                                      Redwood Road freeway exit.
Celebrating Community
                                                                                                      Image: Center Point Master Plan Vision Document and Small Area Plan. CRSA.
The benefits of celebrating community through events and community gatherings are many,
including building relationships, promoting civic pride, social and cultural development, civic
engagement, public participation, and building a sense of community. Events such as farmers
markets, movies in the park, block parties, community clean-ups, and sporting events can be a
fun way to connect with others and support local causes.
Celebrating Community Community Vision
In an effort to be inclusive of all residents, Taylorsville should continue to support, promote and
encourage community events and celebrations. In addition to entertainment oriented events,
community focused events, including community cleanup campaigns, tree plantings, and other
events that focus on enhancing the community will engage citizens and promote civic pride,
ownership and responsibility. Collaborating with other organizations and looking for synergistic
relationships with other community partners can further augment Taylorsville’s objective of
engaging the community through events and celebrations. For instance, partnering and
coordinating with events at the Mid-Valley performing arts center or sports organizations such
as Taylorsville High School teams or Little League Baseball can help enhance events and convey
local flavor. Aggressive and strategic marketing is also important to ensure attendance.




Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                              2-25
 Community Character Objective 2.6: Engage all citizens in the events and
 activities of the City.

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
 2.6-A: Promote community events and celebrations to ensure residents are aware of all
        opportunities for civic engagement.
 2.6-B: Identify and celebrate the qualities, character, and diversity of the community that
        make Taylorsville a unique and desirable place to live. Encourage the involvement of
        residents, visitors, and the business community in celebrating Taylorsville and it’s
        culture and identity.
 2.6-C: Expand community sponsored events to promote Taylorsville as a desirable place to
        live, work and play.
 2.6-D: Look for opportunities to partner with other community organizations in local events
        and celebrations.
 2.6-E: Explore opportunities for winter celebrations to enable four seasons of community
        celebration.
 2.6-F: Complete deferred improvements at Centennial Plaza, including synthetic skating rink,
        playgrounds, shaded plazas and additional furnishings.



Gateways and Wayfinding
Given that gateway locations represent the “first impression” of the community, it is important
that these areas be aesthetically attractive and routinely maintained to enhance the image of the
City. The design of these areas must create a positive impression of the community and provide
a “signature” statement for Taylorsville. Gateway signs should utilize common design elements
while being adaptive to specific sites and responsive to neighborhood character. Gateway signs
should be accentuated by attractive and well-maintained landscaping.
Gateways and Wayfinding Community Vision
Map 2.3.3 illustrates proposed new gateway and public facility signage. Before embarking on
any new locations, however, it is recommended that the Taylorsville Gateway and Community
Signage Master Plan be updated to reflect more economical and easier to construct and
maintain designs. Additionally, some proposed locations for new signage will be part of a
comprehensive redevelopment scheme that will likely require a customized design that is based
on the particular circumstances of the location.
Recommended new signs include:
▪ Millrace Park/5400 South Gateway. The current sign located at the entrance of Millrace Park
   on 5400 South represents both a park entrance and gateway sign. The existing sign was


Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 2: Community Character                                        2-26
                                                                                                                           4100 South/Jordan River
                                                                                                                           Gateway Sign
               Key:

               Proposed new sign




                                                                4700 South2700 West/I-215
                                                                      Gateway Signs
                                                                                                                                             4800 South/Jordan River
                                                                                               Taylorsville Park Sign                        Gateway Sign
                                                                                                                                             (Replacement)




                                                                                                                        Millrace Park
                            5400 South (Westpoint District)                                                             5400 South Gateway Sign
                            Gateway Sign                                                                                (Replacement)




                                                         Summit Park Sign




                                                              Map 2.3.3: Proposed Community Signage

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                     2-27
    installed in the early 2000s and based on a earlier design style that utilized a former
    Taylorsville logo design. It is recommended that the sign be replaced with a new sign based
    on the latest Taylorsville branding strategy.
▪   Taylorsville Park. Taylorsville Park has an existing park entrance sign at the south entrance on
    4800 South. The main entrance to the park however, is on Redwood Road. The park also
    includes a highly visible location at the corner of 4700 South and Redwood Road. It is
    recommended that a new park sign be installed at the main park entrance and/or at the
    corner location.
▪   Summit Park. Summit Park is a new community park currently under construction that has no
    current signage. It is recommended that a new park sign be installed at the main entrance of
    the new park on 3200 West.
▪   4100 South/Jordan River Gateway. The gateway location on 4100 South at the Jordan River
    represents one of the most prominent gateway locations into the city. Currently no sign
    exists at this location. This location is complicated by the fact that the north side of the
    street is located in West Valley City. It is recommended that a new gateway sign be installed
    on the southside of the street that is viewable by west bound travelers (northern lanes).
▪   4800 South/Jordan River Gateway. An existing old style gateway sign in poor condition is
    located east of the river outside of the Taylorsville boundary. It is recommended that the old
    sign be removed and replaced with a new sign on 4800 South within the City boundary.
▪   5400 South (Westpoint District) Gateway. The Westpoint District located at 5400 South and
    4000 West is listed as a priority redevelopment area within the City. Currently there is no
    acceptable location at the intersection that would accommodate a new sign. It is
    recommended that as redevelopment occurs at the corner location that a space be reserved
    for a new sign that is architecturally compatible with future redevelopment that would act as
    a gateway and also assist in marketing efforts for the new center. It is also recommended
    that the City work with the Kearns community to create a four corner gateway monument to
    celebrate the historic connections between the two communities.
▪   4700 South/2700 West/I-215 District Gateway. This location is also listed as a priority
    redevelopment area. With the proximity of the I-215 interchange on 4700 South, this is also
    one of the most prominent gateway locations in the City. It is recommended that as
    redevelopment occurs at the corner location that a space be reserved for a new sign that is
    architecturally compatible with future redevelopment that would act as a gateway and also
    assist in marketing efforts for the new center. A gateway sign at the freeway interchange
    should also be considered.




Taylorsville General Plan      Chapter 2: Community Character                                          2-28
Community Character Objective 2.7: Make a positive statement about the
community and community locations by constructing attractive gateway
and entrance signage at city boundaries, community facilities, and other
key locations within the City.
Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
2.7-A: Update the Taylorsville Gateway and Community Signage Master Plan. The new plan
       should establish standards for signage that is more economical, easier to construct, and
       easier to maintain. New standards should be developed by a design professional and
       address basic construction methods. Designs should incorporate features from existing
       signs to ensure compatibility with previous investments by the City.
2.7-B: Establish drought tolerant landscape standards for community sign locations within the
       city. New standards should address recommended plantings, spacing, site preparation,
       mulching materials, and irrigation.
2.7-C: Improve, update, and install landscaping and appropriate irrigation systems as
       necessary and appropriate at each existing gateway and community signage location.
2.7-D: Install new signage at the following locations (see Map 2.3.3):
              4100 South/Jordan River gateway sign.
              4800 South/Jordan River (replacement sign).
              Millrace Park/5400 South gateway.
              Taylorsville Park (4700 South Redwood Road intersection).
              Summit Park sign.
              5400 South (Westpoint District) gateway.
              4700 South/2700 South/I-215 gateway.



Community Branding
Branding through urban design is an effective way to create a unique sense of place for
Taylorsville within the 20+ communities in Salt Lake County. Specific design standards that
identify such things as materials, colors, landscape products, fonts, etc. can help identify
Taylorsville as a distinct place while being bounded on all sides by other communities. Although
most of the improvements utilizing the city’s urban design strategy have happened informally
without a formally adopted procedure, over 20 improvements have been completed citywide
using the scheme. Explanations and examples of the urban design branding strategy are
illustrated on page 2-30.
Community Branding Community Vision
To ensure continued success and growth of the nearly two decades old urban design strategy,
the Taylorsville General Plan recommends formalizing and maturing the design theme to include

Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 2: Community Character                                       2-29
       Taylorsville Public Facilities Urban Design Branding Standards Guide 1

                                                      Featured Exterior Material:                                            Lights and Street Furnishings:
                                                      The primary exterior building material                                 Lights, street furnishings and, where
                                                      is rustic tan stacked stone.                                           appropriate, windows and other metal
                                                      Central Plaza Arbor at Centennial Plaza                                features should be silver, brushed
                                                                                                                             aluminum, stainless steal or similar finish.
                                                                                                                             Individual letters on signs should be either
                                                                                                                             silver (dark background) or oil rubbed
                                                                                                                             bronze (light background) depending on
                                                                                                                             the circumstances.
                                                                                                                             Redwood Road Streetscape 5620 South
                                                                                                                             Taylorsville City Hall Windows and Flag Pole [inset]




                                                      Secondary Exterior Materials:                                          Landscaping:
                                                      Additional exterior materials may be                                   Structures should be highlighted and
                                                      used depending on circumstances,                                       softened by landscaping. Drought
                                                      including exposed smooth buff                                          tolerant plantings should be utilized
                                                      colored concrete, black or dark gray                                   from a consistent plant list. All landscape
                                                      panels or surfaces, rust or Corten steel,                              areas should include irrigation and
                                                      or exterior grade wood or simulated                                    receive consistent maintenance.
                                                      wood (such as Knotwood®).                                              Centennial Plaza Gateway Structure
                                                      UFA Plymouth Station #117




                                                      Context Materials:                                                     Metal Signs:
                                                      In some situations, additional                                         Where appropriate, colored signs
                                                      alternative materials or colors may be                                 providing wayfinding or other
                                                      utilized to ensure facilities are                                      information may be attached to
                                                      compatible with the context in which                                   structures.
                                                      they are constructed. For example, the                                   Colors [RGB]:
                                                      brick utilized in the pavilion at                                               Dark Blue: R-1; G-101; B-165
                                                      Centennial Plaza matches the brick                                              Medium Blue: R-0; G-158; B-221
                                                                                                                                      Light Blue: R-138; G-197; B-235
                                                      utilized on the adjacent Mid-Valley                                             Dark Green: R-112; G-180; B-63
                                                      Performing Arts Center [inset].                                                 Medium Green: R-164; G-206; B-133
                                                                                                                                      Light Green: R-210; G-229; B-194
                                                      Main Pavillion Centennial Plaza
                                                                                                                             Vista Park 2200 West Entrance;
                                                                                                                             Cabana Club Park [inset]
  1
      Additional Resources: 1] Taylorsville Logo Standards Guide, 2] Taylorsville Signage Master Plan—Landmark Design 2014


Taylorsville General Plan            Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                       2-30
a formal color scheme, landscape standards, and specific materials lists to assist architects and
designers. In order for the design strategy to avoid seeming dated, it should be continuously
reviewed and updated with intentional flexibility built in to ensure creativity and design
excellence.
 Community Character Objective 2.8: Formalize and continue the city’s
 urban design branding strategy.

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
 2.8-A: Establish formal design standards for the Taylorsville Urban Design Strategy. New
        standards should include applicability, primary construction materials, secondary
        constructions materials, colors, graphics, fonts, etc. Standards should include flexibility
        to address unique and notable places within the community.
 2.8-B: Establish formal design standards for the style and color of street furnishings, including       Illustration 2.3.4
        trash receptacles, benches, bollards, landscape planters, railings, street lights, street        Architecture of the Recent Past.
        signs, bus shelters, etc.                                                                        As Taylorsville began to move from an agrarian to a
 2.8-C: Establish formal landscape standards for public places within the community. Standards           suburban community in the late 1950s and early 1960s,
        should focus on well designed drought tolerant plantings, native species, and irrigation         structures such as this mid-century modern elementary
        systems.                                                                                         school were constructed to serve the growing and evolving
 2.8-D: Continue to utilize the Taylorsville branding strategies at all applicable public places,        community. Although these buildings of the “recent past”
        including new buildings, streetscapes, signs, parks, infrastructure, etc.                        often don’t receive the recognition or appreciation of
                                                                                                         buildings built in the 19th and early 20th centuries, they do
 2.8-E: Improve landscape maintenance funding and practices at all public places.
                                                                                                         represent a dramatic time of change within the United
                                                                                                         States.
History and Historic Preservation
                                                                                                         John C. Fremont Elementary, constructed in 1963.
Very few things define a community’s identity more than a place’s history or the buildings that
represent the community’s place in time. Historic buildings serve as links to our past, advancing
a sense of place and continuity. Taylorsville is particularly challenged in this area in that very few
buildings still exist from the city’s first 100 years of existence. That being the case, those
remaining historic resources in the city, particularly those constructed prior to the mid-twentieth
century, should be strongly protected, preserved, and emphasized. Protecting and preserving
Taylorsville’s limited historic cultural assets should be a priority action of the city.
Even though little physical evidence exists today of the city’s original settlement and agrarian
history, the city’s past should still be honored and recognized in other ways in addition to
architectural preservation. Community features such as historical markers and place names can
effectively maintain curiosity of a place’s past.
Taylorsville’s current settlement patterns reflect the suburbanization of the area as initiated in
the late 1950s and proceeding through today. Although few people view suburban communities



Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 2: Community Character                                                                                                   2-31
through the lens of history and historic preservation, Taylorsville was, in fact, an early
participant in perhaps the most significant change in the way most Americans live today.
History and Historic Preservation Community Vision
The community vision for history and historic preservation combines preservation of historic
buildings, enhancing the 4800 South streetscape, recognizing historic places, people, and events
through the naming of public places, establishing new historical markers, and recognizing the
recent past. The Taylorsville Historic Preservation Committee should play an active role in new
policies, development plans, and recognition of the City’s architectural heritage and history. The
city should engage the Committee for input and formal recommendations for the following
evolving primary elements of the plan:
1. Preservation of historic buildings in the City.
2. Development of an appropriate streetscape on 4800 South.
3. Naming of public places within the city based on historic locations, events, persons.
4. Recognition of the recent past.

Community Character Objective 2.9: Recognize and preserve the history,
historic buildings, and historic sites of the community.

Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
2.9-A: Strengthen and enhance existing historic preservation policies and programs intended
       to preserve and renovate historic buildings.
2.9-B: Establish basic architectural design standards for historic building renovation and new
       construction within the 4800 South Historic District.
2.9-C: Develop a 4800 South streetscape plan that establishes the street as an important
       location within the city. The streetscape plan should address overhead power lines,
       signage, historic markers, active transportation, street lights and other street
       furnishings.
2.9-D: Promote Taylorsville history by recognizing and naming community features after
       important and noteworthy places and people from Taylorsville history, including parks,
       buildings, trails, streets, districts, public facilities, etc.
2.9-E: Task the Taylorsville Historic Preservation Committee with making a recommendation
       to the Taylorsville Planning Commission and City Council on how best to recognize the
       recent past and Taylorsville's place in the suburbanization of the United States.
2.9-F: All demolition and building permits within the historic district should require planning




Taylorsville General Plan     Chapter 2: Community Character                                         2-32
