9 Environmental Stewardship
Taylorsville is located in a region endowed with abundant natural resources and stunning scenery. We strive to lead by
example, to collaborate with neighboring communities, to incorporate innovative strategies, and to conserve resources.
Keeping our air clean and our water pure is crucial to ensure the health of future generations. We will work together as
neighbors      to create
Taylorsville General Plan aChapter
                            community        culture
                                   9: Environmental    of preparedness for emergencies and natural disasters.
                                                    Stewardship                                                          9-1
                                                              “I am the Lorax. I speak for the trees. I speak for the trees
                                                                           for the trees have no tongues.”

                                                                   Theodor Seuss Geisel aka Dr. Suess (1904-1991)
                                                                                  (from The Lorax)
                                                                                       Author, illustrator, publisher
                                                                       Theodor Seuss Geisel, commonly known by his pen name of Dr. Suess, is most
                                                                       famous as a children's author. His books have sold over 600 million copies and
                                                                       include many of the most popular titles of all-time, including How the Grinch Stole
                                                                       Christmas!, The Cat in the Hat, Horton Hears a Who!, Green Eggs and Ham, and…
                                                                       The Lorax.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                             9-2
                       Taylorsville General Plan
                       Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship

Chapter 9 Contents:
9.1     Water Conservation
9.2     Emergency Mitigation and Recovery
9.3     Urban Forest
9.4     Preservation of Natural Amenities
9.5     Green Infrastructure
9.6     Waste Management and Recycling
Environmental Stewardship Goal:          Taylorsville will cultivate and
implement innovative strategies to conserve resources, keep our air
clean, and our water pure for our health of current residents and
future generations.
Utah is well-known for its vast public lands, iconic landscapes and vistas, and abundant natural
resources. These have contributed in various ways to the past, present and future economies of
the region, and make the area attractive to families and individuals. As the region continues to
grow, protecting the natural environment and natural assets will become even more
challenging.
Over the past century, urban development has reduced access to natural areas and altered
wildlife habitat. Growth patterns have also contributed to increased pollution and a decline in
biodiversity, threatening the physical and mental wellbeing of residents.
Taylorsville residents recognize that once abundant resources are becoming more scarce,
signaling the need for responsible stewardship. Thoughtful planning and stewardship will ensure
an improved quality of life for Taylorsville residents and those in the greater Wasatch region.
This General Plan acts as a guide to align Taylorsville’s values with standards for future



Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                   9-3
development and redevelopment and to demonstrate a commitment to promote environ-
mental stewardship through:
▪ Protecting natural assets, including the Jordan River, and canals.
▪ Reducing water consumption (gallons per person per day).
▪ Preserving natural resources.
▪ Increasing access to nature and passive recreation.
▪ Reducing exposure to heat and pollutants.
▪ Reducing emissions generated by transportation and buildings.
▪ Improving air and water quality through low-impact development principles.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                    9-4
9.1 Environmental Stewardship Water Conservation
Water conservation is among the highest priorities in Utah to accommodate the projected
growth and preserve irreplaceable natural features of the region. Utah leads the nation in per
                                                                                                                  Source                           Capacity
capita water use, despite being the second driest state based on annual precipitation. In recent             Atherton East Well
years there have been drastic fluctuations in water levels of major water bodies including the
Great Salt Lake and Lake Powell, and reports of smaller rural towns running out of water (Chow,             Atherton West Well
Vivian, “Severe drought causes Utah town to run out of drinking water,” ABC4 News, August 28,
2021, link). This demonstrates the urgency of water conservation. In 2022, the Utah State                     Barker West Well
Legislature passed Senate Bill 110 requiring cities to include a water element in their General                 Fairway Well
Plan that evaluates municipal water supply and demand and to identify methods of
conservation.                                                                                               Meadowbrook Well

Current Conditions                                                                                              Pioneer Well
Water delivered to Taylorsville residents and businesses is provided by Taylorsville-Bennion
Improvement District (TBID), whose supply is drawn from wells and supplemented by water                         Rawson Well                     15,825 Acre-Feet
sourced from Deer Creek and Jordanelle Reservoirs. Reservoirs rely primarily on snowpack
                                                                                                               Swenson Well
volume and annual precipitation, which are influenced by global weather patterns. Over the last
century, weather patterns and snowfall totals have been inconsistent, resulting in regular                  Taylorsville East Well
drought conditions in Utah. These factors coupled with population growth drive the need for
efficient water use across the state.                                                                      Taylorsville West Well
Water levels in the Great Salt Lake have fluctuated drastically and are influenced by the amount
                                                                                                              Valley West Well
of water diverted from tributaries feeding the Great Salt Lake. If water levels remain below
optimum levels, there would be significant environmental and economic consequences, placing                    Supplemental                      4,700 Acre-Feet
an extreme burden on the region. Water conservation efforts are a top priority to minimize any
short- and long-term impacts associated with declining water levels at the Great Salt Lake.                          TOTAL SUPPLY 20,525 Acre-Feet
The 2019 Regional Water Conservation Update established a 2030 consumption target of 187               Table 9.1.1
gallons per capita per day (gpcd) for the Salt Lake Region. Data provided by TBID shows that           Wells and Current Supply
customers in its service area have consistently exceeded the regional goal, evidenced by the           Annual capacity numbers are based on water rights and
most recent five-year average of 168.11 gpcd (2020-2024). Five-year averages show trends that          contract amounts. This data does not guarantee each well is
level out variations in monthly and annual water use. Illustration 9.1.3 illustrates a slight upward   producing an equal, set quantity of water month to month,
trend in consumption rates. The annual rates show a drastic spike while more people stayed             especially during summer months. Physical pumping
home during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, followed by low consumption rates in 2022             capacity of wells depends on a variety of factors, including
and 2023, likely a result of strong water conservation messaging which resulted in updated             time of year, influence of other running wells and
landscape standards and irrigation practices. 2024 has brought an increase to annual water             mechanical maintenance.
consumption close to that seen in 2020. Continued public education and outreach, water meter           Source: Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District
upgrades, coordination with TBID, and other infrastructure updates will be required to ensure a
sufficient water supply and its efficient use as the population continues to increase.


Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                                   9-5
One ongoing program is the installation of upgraded residential meters that provide real-time
access to water usage data, giving customers the ability to view household trends and make
informed decisions and changes to reduce household water consumption. Taylorsville residents
also benefit from a continuous flow program that alerts residents of potential water leaks.
Customers are also incentivized to reduce water use with a tiered rates pricing system. On a
larger scale, TBID has identified infrastructure upgrades to reduce the risk of main line breaks
and massive water loss and damage, as identified in the Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement
District Water Conservation Plan Update 2024. A TBID representative is also involved in the
earliest stages of development review, providing developers with information to inform budget,
timelines, existing capacity, necessary upgrades, and other design details.
In 2022 the City updated its park strip and boulevard landscaping at City Hall, as well as
landscaping in areas at two public parks to model waterwise landscaping. City Hall irrigation is       Illustration 9.1.2
regulated by a high quality smart controller that adjusts water frequency and duration                 GPCD Calculation Method (Utah DNR)
according to factors such as weather, sun exposure, and soil moisture content. Taylorsville is         The Utah Division of Water Resources has established the
also in the process of gathering and evaluating consumption data that will inform clear                method to calculate gallons per capita per day (gpcd) in
reduction targets for city-owned and operated facilities and properties.                               Utah. Annual water allocation is measured in acre-feet of
                                                                                                       water. Individual water use is measured in gallons per
Outdoor Water Use
                                                                                                       household or gallons per capita per day.
An estimated 60% of residential water is used for outdoor purposes (Clark, Becker, Hotaling,
                                                                                                       Source: Utah Division of Water Resources
Wagner “Policies and Programs for Water-Wise Residential Landscaping in Utah”, USU). All
water delivered by TBID is potable, so there is no
difference in source between indoor and outdoor water
use. Permitted development patterns throughout
Taylorsville’s history has resulted in majority residential
single-family detached lots with large yards resulting in
approximately 21% grass coverage for the city. As a
result, during summer months Taylorsville’s peak water
demand has been more than 400 gpcd for five of the
past eight years. To help handle peak water demand,
TBID is proposing a new well expected to begin
operating in 2026.
Taylorsville has already taken steps to increase outdoor
irrigation efficiency and to minimize overall water
consumption. In 2022, an ordinance was adopted
prohibiting grass in park strips, which are difficult to efficiently irrigate. Over spraying of park   Illustration 9.1.3
strips is estimated to waste 7,000-10,000 gallons per season per residential home due to their         Gallons Per Capita Per Day TBID Water Consumption
rectangular shape when irrigated by the conventional overhead spray method. In 2023, another           Data, 2000-2024
ordinance was adopted updating city-wide landscaping standards, limiting water-intensive               Source: Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District

lawns for both residential and commercial areas. The ordinance also included a restriction on


Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                           9-6
daytime watering, which can reduce water waste by up to
20%. Adoption of these standards enables Taylorsville
residents to participate in the state-funded Flip-Your-Strip
program to receive reimbursements for replacing lawn with
drought-tolerant plantings in park strips.
Indoor Water Use
Taylorsville residents use approximately 76 gpcd for indoor
water use, higher than the national average of 58.6 gpcd.
Unlike outdoor water use, indoor use remains consistent
throughout the year and is largely influenced by household
size, education attainment, and appliance and fixture
efficiency. The EPA created the WaterSense fixture
designation to encourage consumers to use more efficient
fixtures. A home built to WaterSense standards conserves
about 28 gallons per household per day (~ 7 gpcd)
compared to homes without efficient fixtures. More than half of Taylorsville homes were built        Illustration 9.1.4
before 1992 and are less likely to have water efficient fixtures; however, replacing plumbing        Water Production (Monthly Demand, 2023)
fixtures is a relatively inexpensive way to conserve water.                                          Water production aligns with water demand. Existing
                                                                                                     storage tanks are used to account for daily fluctuations.
Community Vision                                                                                     Source: Data provided by Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District
It is important that planning and preparation for conservation and improvements are started
today and continued to be implemented while supplies are still sufficient and economic
conditions are favorable. A proactive approach will help prevent a crisis period requiring
immediate and drastic response. Conscientious development and thoughtful planning coupled
with smart technology and best practices will help Taylorsville maintain or reduce the city’s
average water consumption of 168.11 gpcd (2020-2024 five-year average). Taylorsville will create
a culture of water conservation by coordinating with TBID and other local organizations to
implement best practices and to take a proactive approach to updating development and
landscaping standards. The City and its residents are committed to supporting regional goals
and efforts to conserve water.
Water conservation will be accomplished by encouraging a shift in consumption behavior
through education, incentives, and informed policies and ordinances. Taylorsville will continue to
partner with state and regional organizations to demonstrate efficient use of water and continue
the positive momentum of recent years by cultivating a community identity that embraces water
conservation principles through collaboration, public awareness and involvement. The following
are strategies to help promote a more water conscious, resilient, and prosperous future.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                                          9-7
                                                                                                                       Illustration 9.1.5
                                                                                                                       Projected Water Demand Compared
                                                                                                                       to Current Water Supply
                                                                                                                       Population is based on projections made
                                                                                                                       in this plan plus 10,000 residents in TBID
                                                                                                                       service area outside of Taylorsville city
                                                                                                                       limits. With and without conservation
                                                                                                                       calculations are based on 2022 (low) and
                                                                                                                       2020 (high) gpcd, compared to current
                                                                                                                       water supply. Efficient use of water will
                                                                                                                       be necessary to prevent shortages or the
                                                                                                                       need to secure more water supplies.
                                                                                                                       Water data provided by Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement
                                                                                                                       District




Education and Outreach
Providing helpful educational resources to the public is arguably the most effective method for
promoting water efficiency. Optimized irrigation practices and systems have been a major focus
throughout the state and have proven to decrease water usage by 5-25%. As mentioned earlier,
approximately 60% of all water used is for outdoor irrigation. Any effort to reduce the amount
of water used for irrigation will make the most impact. The installation of more efficient
landscape designs throughout the City will be realized through new development,
redevelopment, and voluntary changes by property owners. Providing educational resources
regarding best practices for drought-tolerant landscape designs and efficient irrigation practices
will result in more informed choices. Replacing traditional landscape areas with more drought-
tolerant designs has been met with some resistance, particularly because it departs from
cultural norms and introduces a new unfamiliar aesthetic. Providing information and examples
for how the selection and location of drought-tolerant plant species can be used in conjunction
with thoughtful grass areas can demonstrate that alternative landscape approaches still achieve
aesthetic and functional goals. Taylorsville does not currently require permits for landscape
projects for single-family detached homes, but handouts or other resources could be provided
to educate homeowners.
The City can also provide resources and information to advance measures to reduce indoor             Illustration 9.1.6
water consumption. As mentioned previously, replacing plumbing fixtures and taking advantage         Park Strip Irrigation
of appliance rebate opportunities is a simple and non-intrusive means of improving overall           Overhead spray irrigation in park strips can waste up to
indoor water efficiency. A dedicated web page on the city website that contains helpful and          10,000 gallons every summer.
easy-to-access information would be a great resource for those interested in water                   Image: Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District

conservation.

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                                             9-8
Development Standards
Re-evaluating the City’s development standards that govern new development can also
promote water conservation. Water usage for a property can be directly impacted by the
development standards. For example, large residential lots have a direct correlation with the
amount of water needed to irrigate the larger yard space. Building setback requirements, or the
distance a building must be situated from the property line, also results in areas of the property
that are likely to be landscaped and that require watering. Exploring smaller residential lot sizes
and more compact development are strategies to minimize the amount of outdoor watering in
the city. These standards should also be balanced with Taylorsville’s character and identity,
ensuring to maintain high-quality landscaped areas throughout the city. For smaller lots and
compact development, focusing landscape areas in highly visible portions of the site, along with
more dense plantings, may prove to be more effective strategy than just relying on the overall
size of the landscape area. This same logic could apply to mixed-use and commercial
applications to get the “biggest bang for the buck” when it comes to the functionality and
aesthetic of landscape treatments.
Additionally, the City can explore and implement best practices to encourage efficient
stormwater management. One example is allowing rainwater to flow into landscape areas within
or adjacent to impervious surfaces. This waters the vegetation and filters out toxins and other
contaminants, diverts water from the city’s storm drain infrastructure, and recharges
underground aquifers. Other examples include collecting rainwater in barrels for irrigation use.
As ordinances are updated, methods to reduce consumption in city-owned facilities and                 Illustration 9.1.7
properties should also be considered. The State of Utah set a goal of 25% water use reduction         Water Efficient Landscaping
for all state-owned properties—Taylorsville could adopt a similar standard for city-owned             Recent adoption of water-efficient landscape standards
facilities to reduce water consumption. Once a reasonable target is set, progress can be shared       enable city residents to participate in Flip-Your-Strip pro-
to create a culture of conservation among employees and the community. Facility fixtures              gram. Residents can apply for reimbursements to cover the
                                                                                                      cost of converting lawn park strips to designs that feature
upgrades, changes to irrigation and landscaping practices, and identifying and prioritizing the
                                                                                                      drought-tolerant vegetation and drip irrigation.
repair of leaks are some initial steps to minimize waste from nonfunctional water uses.
Additionally, the visibility of public property presents the unique opportunity for these areas to
act as demonstration gardens with displays about the benefits of the design, plant species, or
references to resources.

Measuring Success
Water conservation is an on-going practice and is never “achieved,” however, the City will
continue to monitor effectiveness of programs and strategies by comparing water consumption
data year-to-year provided by water suppliers. While there are several actions and policies
identified in this section, overall success will be measured by observing the five-year average
water consumption (gpcd) in Taylorsville. As new dwelling units are added, the city will provide
information and resources to residents and developers with a goal to maintain the recent five-
year average. When the desired average consumption of 168 gpcd by 2029 is reached, the city

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                            9-9
will re-evaluate goals and objects and consider additional measures and strategies to further
increase efficiency and conserve water.
Environmental Stewardship Objective 9.1: Achieve a five-year average
consumption rate of 168 gallons per capita per day by 2029.

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
9.1-A: Commit to researching and exploring partnerships with expert organizations to study city-
       wide water use. Distribute relevant findings and information regarding water conservation
       best practices and principles to Taylorsville residents, property owners, and business
       owners.
9.1-B: Create a dedicated city webpage highlighting water conservation goals and best practices.
       Include general information about current and historic water consumption in the state,
       region, and city; best practices for drought-tolerant landscaping; resources for improving
       indoor plumbing efficiency; and grant and reimbursement programs.
9.1-C: Engage with residents and businesses through neighborhood groups, schools, and
       committees to inform additional outreach and programs.
9.1-D: Create a policy guide/manual for water-wise landscape standards for residential and
       commercial properties.
9.1-E: Identify areas with housing built before 1990 to prioritize plumbing fixture and appliance
       upgrades. Use federal grants (CDBG and HOME) or other resources to assist low– and
       moderate-income and seniors with needed upgrades.
9.1-F: Reduce water consumption for city owned and operated property and facilities by
       upgrading fixtures, evaluating outdoor water use, and consider replacing nonfunctional
       turf with water efficient ground cover alternative.
9.1-G: Regularly review city code and update language to align land use policies and regulations
       to with water conservation goals.
9.1-H: Explore methods to minimize landscape area on a site while maintaining high-quality
       landscape on highly visible portions of the site.
9.1-I: Research the impact that lot size, minimum building setbacks, minimum parking
       standards, and other design requirements have on water consumption.
9.1-J: Encourage shared efficient and functional open space.
9.1-K: Research advances in low-impact design best practices to inform regulatory updates for
       more efficient stormwater management.
9.1-L: Meet regularly with water suppliers to discuss current and future water needs.
9.1-M: Collaborate with suppliers to identify priority areas for meter and infrastructure updates
       and address water system inefficiencies.
9.1-N: Identify suitable locations for alternatives to large-lot single family housing based on
       infrastructure.

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                    9-10
9.2 Environmental Stewardship Emergency Mitigation and Recovery
Disaster resilience is the ability for a community to survive and adapt when faced with
community-level stresses and shocks. This section aims to anticipate vulnerabilities in Taylorsville
and identify opportunities for improvements so Taylorsville can withstand and more readily
recover from a large-scale or catastrophic event. Taylorsville has already adopted several
mitigation measures to decrease the risk of loss and
                                                                          Severe Risk                  Moderate Risk                            Limited Risk
damage, coordinate responses, and support residents
                                                             High         • Earthquake                 • Technological System Fail-              • Small HAZMAT Incident
and businesses during the recovery process:                                                              ure
• Salt Lake County Multi-Jurisdictional Hazard            Probability                                  • Drought
    Mitigation Plan;                                                      • Large HAZMAT Incident      • Tornado                                 • Extreme Heat/Cold
• Taylorsville Emergency Operations Plan;
                                                          Moderate        • Pandemic Event             • Flooding (Storms)                       • Extreme Weather (Storms)
• Sensitive Area Overlay Zone (liquefaction risk and      Probability                                  • Water Supply Compromise                 • Urban Interface Fire
    FEMA floodplain data);                                                                             • Radon Exposure
• Building and development standards; and
                                                                          • Air Transportation Inci-   • Canal Break                             • Ground Transportation Inci-
• Compliance with 2021 International Building                 Low           dent                                                                    dent
                                                                                                       • Civil Unrest
    Code (IBC) and International Residential Code         Probability                                                                            • Mudslide/Landslide
                                                                                                       • Sabotage/Terrorist Event
    (IRC).                                                                                                                                       • Utility Failure
Existing Conditions                                                                                    Table 9.2.1
The matrix in Table 9.2.1 details the probability and severity of incidents if they were to occur in   Probability and Risk of a Significant Event
Taylorsville. While the severity of an event may be high, its probability may be much lower.           Matrix illustrating the probability and risk of a significant
                                                                                                       event in Taylorsville. Darkest shade of blue represents a
Conversely, while an event may be more likely to occur, its impact may be minimal. Accordingly,
                                                                                                       high probability event that would create heavy disruption to
those events deemed the most probable and most severe, and which may have the highest                  affected areas.
impact upon the city, dictates much of the planning efforts.                                           Source: “Taylorsville City Emergency Operations Plan” Revised and Adopted, 2023

Heat
Extreme heat is an increasingly common threat locally. Data from the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) show that very hot days (100+ degrees Fahrenheit) are
increasing in number. Adapting the built environment and targeted public outreach and
education can help residents (especially the young and elderly) stay comfortable and safe. Urban
areas like Taylorsville often experience temperatures 5-10 degrees warmer than rural or less-
developed areas. This phenomenon is called the “urban heat island effect,” when structures such
as buildings, roads, and other infrastructure absorb and re-emit the sun's heat more than natural
landscapes such as forests and water bodies. Taylorsville should explore strategies to minimize
the urban heat island effect, such as reducing overall impervious pavement coverage, increasing
the urban tree canopy, and developing more efficient building standards. Additional information
related to this topic can be found in the Urban Forest and Green Infrastructure sections.



Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                                                  9-11
Earthquake
Another risk to Utah urban areas is a major earthquake event. Seismologists
and geologists predict a 6.0- 6.75 magnitude earthquake is due along the
Wasatch Fault, which would cause massive disruption. Geological analyses also
predicts the West Valley Fault will rupture at the same time or shortly after, a
“big one” on the main Wasatch Fault, placing Taylorsville at higher risk.
On March 18, 2020, a 5.7 magnitude earthquake struck the Salt Lake Valley.
The overall damage and disruption was relatively minor; however, the Salt Lake
County Emergency Response Team reported disproportionate impact to
mobile homes, several of which experienced a “fairly significant amount of
damage,” due to structures slipping off foundations. The most severe and
publicized structural damage occurred to unreinforced masonry buildings
(URMs). Map 9.2.2 illustrates the location of approximately 6,800 buildings in
Taylorsville that pre-date more strict building code standards adopted in 1977.
Such structures have an increased risk of sustaining severe damage during an
earthquake. According to FEMA and the Salt Lake County Response Team,
URM buildings are most often occupied by disproportionate number of
disadvantaged and marginalized populations.
Liquefaction potential also poses major threats in the event of an earthquake.
Liquefaction is when water-saturated soil loses strength and behaves like a
liquid, similar to quicksand. This can happen when the ground shakes during
an earthquake. The Majestic Meadows, Monte Vista, and Majestic Oaks
manufactured home parks, Dutch Draw Lane, and Morningside Cove                                       Map 9.2.2
subdivision also have high-risk factors due to the structural integrity of buildings, liquefaction   Earthquake Vulnerability
risk, and limited ingress/egress for residents and emergency responders.
                                                                                                     Approximately 30% of the structures in Taylorsville were
Taylorsville should focus earthquake mitigation efforts in areas with high concentrations of         constructed prior to 1977, when building codes were up-
unreinforced masonry structures, high liquefaction potential, and neighborhoods with limited         dated to include seismic safety considerations. Taylorsville
access. Exploring new vehicle and pedestrian connections in these areas would prove valuable         exceeds the state-wide average of 20% for URM structures.
during evacuation and rescue operations. Securing funding for a fix-the-bricks program for high      Source: Data from 2019 Multijurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan and Salt Lake
                                                                                                     County Records.
-risk homes and in Taylorsville’s historic district would help protect residents and preserve
unique structures. Expedited building permitting processes and adopting emergency ordinances
to relax temporary housing restrictions are other examples for how Taylorsville can help
minimize the impacts and displacement caused by a significant earthquake.
Drought
Drought results from a deficiency of precipitation over an extended period of time, resulting in a
water shortage. The severity of a drought depends upon the degree of moisture deficiency, its
duration, and the size of the affected area. The U.S. Drought Monitor is a broad-scale national


Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                                             9-12
drought map updated weekly to communicate unusually dry conditions using four categories              Illustration 9.2.3
(moderate, severe, extreme, and exceptional drought). Illustration 9.2.3 illustrates the percentage
                                                                                                      Utah Percent Area in Drought, 2000-2025
of Utah land affected by drought over time. Since the year 2000, Utah has experienced several
                                                                                                      Source: U.S. Drought Monitor website, https://droughtmonitor.unl.edu/DmData/
cycles of exceptional drought conditions. Utah largely relies on snowmelt runoff stored in            TimeSeries.aspx
reservoirs to get through the hot summer irrigation season. If enough snow falls in the
mountains during the winter months, dry summer weather conditions can be somewhat
overcome in many areas of the state. The most effective strategy for drought resilience is
reducing water consumption; additional information related to this topic can be found in
Section 9.1: Water Conservation. The city can also coordinate with water suppliers to create
mitigation and response strategies to provide short-term relief from temporary drought-related
water supply shortages.
Flooding
The types of floods that pose the highest risk to Taylorsville are flash flooding and snowmelt
flooding. Flash flooding is a rapid and extreme flow of high water into a normally dry area, or a
rapid water level rise in a stream or creek above a predetermined flood level due to a causative
event (i.e., intense rainfall, dam failure, ice jam). Flooding due to snowmelt most often occurs in
the spring when rapidly warming temperatures quickly melt the snow. The water runs off the
already saturated ground into nearby streams and rivers, causing them to rapidly rise and, in
some cases, overflow their banks. Land near the Jordan River corridor has the highest risk of
flood. To minimize risk, these areas are already subject to additional development standards if
they are within a FEMA-designated food zone. Subdivision plats adjacent to the Jordan River

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                                                9-13
also include a buffer area (typically 50 to 100 feet from the edge of the bank) to provide
additional land area to store and absorb flood water. This also preserves healthy vegetation to
stabilize soils and prevent erosion. Additionally, depending on the flood plain elevation and
water table, basements may not be permitted in some areas. Additional information related to
recommended river buffer zones and low-impact development can be found in the Blueprint
Jordan River, a guiding document intended to establish river-sensitive best practices.
Taylorsville City is a member of the Jordan River Commission and is committed to supporting
and implementing policies and standards to preserve and protect life and property.

Community Vision
Taylorsville will continue taking steps to implement best practices and policies to better prepare
for emergencies and natural disasters. Strong social capital is an indicator for how well a
community recovers in the aftermath of a disaster or emergency. Supporting and/or partnering
with faith-based, educational, and other organizations that provide emergency preparation,
outreach, and educational efforts would prove valuable. The following strategies will help
Taylorsville become more prepared and resilient in the event of an emergency or natural
disaster.

Measuring Success
Without a significant event taking place, it’s difficult to know how well the city and its residents
are prepared; however, committing to a proactive approach of preparedness and education is
key. The city’s on-going efforts to implement the policies and actions listed in this Section will
help Taylorsville be more prepared and resilient in the event of an emergency or natural
disaster.

Environmental Stewardship Objective 9.2: Reduce the risk of preventable
loss and injury and prepare to act and recover from emergencies and

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
9.2-A: Partner with universities and other organizations to identify high-risk areas for urban
       heat island and incorporate best practices to mitigate. Evaluate development standards
       that contribute to the heat island effect. Research and incorporate best practices as
       necessary (reduce minimum parking standards, improve building efficiency with site
       planning and building orientation, reduce heat absorption with “cool roofs,” increase
       landscape and tree canopy coverage, evaluate street design standards).
9.2-B: Coordinate with Emergency Management and distribute information regarding
       emergency preparedness, mitigation, and recovery. Create a dedicated city webpage
       that can function to provide real-time updates in case of emergency.
                                                                                     [Continued]


Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                       9-14
Environmental Stewardship Objective 9.2: Reduce the risk of preventable
loss and injury and prepare to act and recover from emergencies and
natural disasters. [continued from previous page]
 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
9.2-C: Identify and partner with community organizations and groups as contacts and partners
       for response plans and recovery efforts. Support programs and efforts to increase
       neighborhood connections to build social capital and improve community resilience.
9.2-D: Coordinate with water suppliers to create mitigation and response strategies to provide
       short-term relief from temporary drought-related water supply shortages.
9.2-E: Collect data and create a series of maps depicting low-, moderate-, and high-risk
       areas for events or incidents that may impact Taylorsville.
9.2-F: Identify areas with high concentrations of unreinforced masonry structures, high-
       liquefaction potential, and neighborhoods with limited access. Create effective
       mitigation and response strategies based on area-specific resident/ business
       needs and capabilities.
9.2-G: Explore opportunities to provide additional vehicle and pedestrian access to
       neighborhoods with limited means of ingress/egress.
9.2-H: Explore funding opportunities to create a fix-the-bricks program.
9.2-I: Update development standards to reflect applicable goals, policies, and standards
       identified in the Blueprint Jordan River Plan.
9.2-J: Use the Hazard Mitigation Plan to inform land use decisions and city policy, seek input
       from emergency response teams.
9.2-K: Prepare a building permit inspection process or pre-approved building plans to enable
       expedited permitting and construction in the event of a disaster.
9.2-L: Create an emergency response ordinance that would remove barriers to emergency




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                 9-15
9.3 Environmental Stewardship Urban Forest
As urban areas have developed, land is cleared and the natural area is altered, which usually
includes a decrease in the number of trees. Utah is no exception to this pattern as tree canopy
has continued to decline. Global Forest Watch reports that Utah has experienced a 10% decrease
in tree cover since 2000. Taylorsville residents recognize that trees play a vital role in maintaining
and improving environmental health and community wellbeing. Trees sequester carbon, regulate
temperatures, influence critical weather cycles, support biodiversity, and improve the quality of
water, soil and air. Their presence also increases property values and can improve the quality of
our lives; studies continue to show a positive correlation
between increased exposure to trees and human health and well
-being, while others have revealed the economic benefits that
trees bring to commercial spaces as more green space and tree
cover create an inviting sense of place, increasing lingering time
and spending by visitors attracted to the area. With the direct
and indirect benefits that trees provide, the urban forest will be
both an amenity and a necessity as population increases, and
development continues in Taylorsville. For the purposes of this
section, urban forest will be broadly defined as all trees within
the city limits.

Existing Conditions
Tree canopy cover is the standard metric taken from an aerial
view and represented as a percentage of land area covered by
tree canopy. According to American Forests, the recommended
minimum tree canopy coverage for urban areas has traditionally
been 20%, but in recent years has been recalculated to a
minimum of 15% for arid climate. Tree Equity Score, a tool
created by American Forests, maps tree canopy coverage and
can assign a priority level based on demographic indicators
drawn from census data. Taylorsville generally scores higher
compared to neighboring cities. This could be due to the fact
that some municipalities in the valley have replaced large areas
of land with industrial or office space, while Taylorsville’s
transition from agricultural land use to single-family bedroom
                                                                                                         Map 9.3.1
community has resulted in land that is preserved as yards with mature trees and potential to
provide space for new ones.                                                                              Percent Tree Canopy Cover by Census Block
                                                                                                         City-wide tree canopy coverage is reported to be 18%, with
The Tree Equity Score tool estimates tree canopy coverage for Taylorsville at about 18% city-            wide variations among census block groups.
wide, with variation between individual census blocks. A closer look reveals areas of the city           Source: Data obtained from American Forests Tree Equity Score tool




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                                              9-16
where significant opportunity for canopy increases exists (Map 9.3.1). Unsurprisingly, commercial
areas with large expanses of parking, such as properties along Redwood Road, stand out as
lacking in cover as well as areas in the southwest corner of the city. The neighborhoods below
the recommended minimum are the same areas that range from 0.5 to 2.6 degrees Fahrenheit
warmer than surrounding neighborhoods on high-heat days, according to the tools’ heat
disparity layer. Areas of the city that show a high tree canopy coverage are those same areas of
the city with high property values, large mature trees, and a lower-than-average temperature on
hot days.
The value Taylorsville has placed on trees is reflected in its policies. The city maintains a street
tree list and has codified language that requires maintenance and care of public trees in the Tree
Stewardship Ordinance, adopted in 2012. Commercial land development standards require one
tree per 500 square feet of landscape area, an unspecified quantity of trees in park strips and a
restriction on removing healthy mature trees for commercial visibility. However, as sites are
redeveloped, existing landscaping is often redesigned for the purposes of improving traffic
ingress and egress, which sometimes leads to the removal of mature trees. A recent volunteer
survey of Taylorsville trees in public parks identifies a lack of diversity which threatens canopy
coverage due to loss from disease and pests, and a need to improve landscaping practices to
nurture growing trees to achieve the full benefits of a mature canopy. Tree planting best
practices, and an updated tree stewardship ordinance are mechanisms other peer cities have
used to incentivize and prioritize preservation and nurturing of a healthy tree canopy to benefit
businesses and residents now and into the future.

Community Vision                                                                                         Illustration 9.3.2
                                                                                                         Trees in Taylorsville
Cities worldwide recognize the benefits of increased tree cover in urban areas as evidenced by
tree planting initiatives, including those in the capital city and others. Higher tree canopy cover in   Mature trees provide such benefits as heat mitigation, storm
urban areas is correlated with increased psychological and physical health, higher property              water management, and air purification. Standards for
                                                                                                         planting new trees and protection of mature trees will be
values, lower traffic speeds along tree-lined streets, and lower temperatures than surrounding
                                                                                                         essential to maintain a healthy tree canopy that can improves
areas. The value trees add to a community through aesthetic and ecological services make their
                                                                                                         property values and wellbeing for residents and visitors.
presence one of many important factors to consider when reviewing development and
community initiatives. Taylorsville has multiple areas that can act as destination points to bring in
shoppers and business owners. As stated in other areas of this General Plan, improvements to
these spaces, including ambitious landscaping standards, will create compounding benefits by
increasing the number of trees that will improve air quality while improving the real and
perceived safety and comfort of an area, encouraging pedestrian use and further reducing the
need for emission-producing transportation.
A city-wide tree canopy coverage goal could be adopted for a tree planting initiative, but a city-
wide average may hide neighborhoods that lack funding, assistance, and awareness to plant
much needed trees that will improve neighborhood character, provide cooling benefits, and



Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                               9-17
improve residents’ well-being. A tailored goal based on land use and current coverage for an
area would be useful in evaluating and setting goals by district, census tract, or by
neighborhood to implement an effective tree planting initiative. Incorporation of greenery has
been shown to improve the feel of a destination resulting in increased use of public
transportation and visiting time to community spaces and retail areas, improving the perceived
safety of pedestrians, character of a place and influencing shoppers’ destination choice, leading
to an increase in property values. Incorporating tree coverage goals for key areas and uses will
help identify the desired benefit and ultimately the right type of trees for an area. The City can
explore working with outside programs and partners to receive designations that will showcase
commitments to conscientious and progressive development and can also bring eligibility to
certain funds and technical assistance from national programs.
The importance of trees and vegetation to habitats has been studied extensively and
fragmentation is one result of development that has lead to changes in wildlife populations over
the centuries. The Jordan River Corridor is one important path that allows wildlife to move
throughout the valley and help support biodiversity for the regional ecosystem. Canals are
another opportunity for increased tree canopy coverage and could be viewed as veins that run
through the city, where specific areas could become focus areas of greening efforts to increase
passive recreation and green corridors similar to those identified in Wasatch Regional Council’s
Green Infrastructure Plan.
A tree planting initiative will be an effective mechanism to increase tree cover, while preserving
mature trees that provide cooling and purification benefits so important to air quality. Data
collection will be required and may reveal that small area targets may be the most effective way
to set targets for Taylorsville. Cities officially implement such initiatives on different scales, but
successful aspects of such efforts have been documented. Each aspect below can be considered
and tailored to Taylorsville’s needs, capacity, and resource availability. According to “Planting the
Living City” (Young), a comprehensive study of municipal tree planting initiatives, an effective         Illustration 9.3.3
tree planting plan must contain the following:                                                           Arbor Day Event (2011)
• Data collection: Create an inventory. The level of detail can be determined based on the               Community tree planting project with Taylorsville officials
                                                                                                         and volunteers near Little Confluence Trailhead, on Murray
     City’s capacity, method of collection, ability to maintain data.                                    Taylorsville Road.
• Clear goal: Needs and capacity of areas will differ throughout city.
• Identify financing: Not only for initial costs, but establishment period for saplings.
• Implementation method: Consider financial, time, and who will be involved in executing
     (volunteer, city employees, etc.)
• Successful partnerships between city and nonprofit groups: Technical assistance, event
     coordination, and long-term maintenance contracts.
• Reduced responsibility for property owners: Use public property, provide information,
     subsidize materials or labor.



Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                             9-18
Measuring Success
According to American Forest’s Tree Equity Survey, to bring every census block in Taylorsville to
a tree canopy cover percentage of 20%, approximately 5,937 trees need to be planted.

 Environmental Stewardship Objective 9.3.1: Recognize, celebrate, and
 expand Taylorsville’s urban forest.
 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
9.3.1-A: Create a work plan and monitoring framework to inventory and grow city’s urban forest
         to 20% city-wide canopy coverage. Consider designating a person or persons to
         champion this effort and the creation of volunteer groups.
9.3.1-B: Adopt a resolution recognizing the impact trees have on air, water, and soil quality and
         overall community wellbeing with goal to enhance urban tree canopy.
9.3.1-C: Redesignate as a Tree City to reignite interest and gain access to tools and assistance
         from organizations.
9.3.1-D: Officially recognize and celebrate Arbor Day, involve community stakeholders and
         regional organizations.
9.3.1-E: Enlist assistance of Historic, Green, and Parks Committees to reach out to residents and
         identify Big Trees and Heritage Trees to be added to Utah Community Forest Council
         registry. Preserve Big Trees and Heritage Trees.
9.3.1-G: Consider contracting with professional arborist to bring element of expertise to city
         reviews and public outreach efforts.
9.3.1-H: Build public-private partnerships to inform and involve community. Explore creation of a
         citizen’s urban forester program.


 Environmental Stewardship Objective 9.3.2: Harness the benefits from

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
9.3.2-A: Reduce private tree removal by exploring ways to help citizens mitigate problems
         caused by trees.
9.3.2-B: Gauge community interest for participation in opt-in program (Storm to Shade) for tree
         planting efforts.
9.3.2-C: Explore methods to assign value to mature trees and amend fee schedule accordingly.
         Consider creation of a tree replacement fund.
9.3.2-D: Increase tree canopy coverage in commercial centers to enhance places and increase
         property values.
                                                                                  [continued]

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                    9-19
 Environmental Stewardship Objective 9.3.2: Harness the benefits from
 trees and set place-specific goals. [continued from previous page]

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
9.3.2-E: Strengthen tree preservation language in city code, codify flexibility measures to
         standards like parking or setbacks to preserve existing trees.
9.3.2-F: Codify spacing, landscaping, and species variation requirements for trees in park strips.
9.3.2-G: Use trees to increase pedestrian comfort to enhance safety, shade paths, and reduce
         vehicle speeds.
9.3.2-H: Link green spaces by enhancing trails and sidewalks with increased tree and vegetation
         cover.
9.3.2-J: Consider heat disparity information to prioritize tree cover increases.
9.3.2-K: Explore Urban Forest Grants to fund improvement projects related to tree planting.




                                                                                                     Illustration 9.3.4
                                                                                                     Little Confluence Trail
                                                                                                     Public and private trees can enhance spaces based on place
                                                                                                     -specific goals.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                       9-20
9.4 Environmental Stewardship Preservation of Natural Amenities
Existing Conditions
Great Salt Lake
The Great Salt Lake is invaluable to Utah culture and economy. Water levels have always
fluctuated due to climate and geological events, but in recent years, drought and impacts of
consumption and development have resulted in downward trends and dramatic lows. The lake is
a regional asset through its historical and local significance and influence on precipitation levels;
it is a national asset, producing 100% of the United States’ magnesium; and global asset by
supplying 14% of the global supply of brine shrimp. The lake is also an integral piece of the
Pacific Flyway and has been recognized as site of “Hemispheric Importance” by the Western
Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network. In 2022, its water level dropped to the lowest water
level recorded. Continuing diminishment will affect the health of various animal species in the
area- including Utah residents. Up to 40% of the dust in Salt Lake and Ogden has been found to
be composed of dust swept up from exposed lakebeds that can contain toxic elements and
reduce air quality. It has been estimated that a seriously diminished lake would cost Utah $2
Billion annually in economic losses due to decreasing property values from declining air quality
and its associated health issues, as well as the impact on tourism and reliable water supply,           Illustration 9.4.1
caused by premature melting from dust settling on snowpack. The preservation and                        Blueprint Jordan River
rehabilitation of the lake will be central to the continued prosperity of the state.                    A regional plan for best practices and goals for the Jordan
                                                                                                        River corridor.
Jordan River                                                                                            Source: https://jordanrivercommission.gov/vision/
The Jordan River is a major local and regional asset that flows through the center of the Salt
Lake Valley and flows along the northeast border of Taylorsville. At over 50 miles long, the river
spans three counties as it wanders northward from Utah Lake and merges with the Great Salt
Lake wetlands. The meandering river creates a lowland riparian environment that once covered
over 12,500 acres and is identified by the Division of Wildlife Resources as important for fish,
vegetation, and mammals, and the most critical habitat type for birds. Adoption of a joint
interlocal resolution in 2012 and membership on the Jordan River commission demonstrates
Taylorsville’s commitment to preservation of this unique natural feature. The commission has
created Blueprint Jordan River with stakeholder and expert input to guide development along
the corridor while protecting habitat, water quality, soil health, and nurture the overall health of
the ecosystem. The plan designates the Taylorsville portion of the corridor as “silver” which
requires a minimum 100-foot buffer from development and stormwater runoff management.
Best practices in the plan are intended to support the rehabilitation of the Jordan River corridor
to allow it to function as a central blue-green path that draws in visitors to appreciate its
features, increase passive recreation opportunities, and support critical ecosystems from Utah
Lake to the Great Salt Lake wetlands. Most of the land adjacent to the river in Taylorsville is

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                            9-21
residential subdivisions containing 50-foot no-build buffers. Parcels of
various size and ownership (county, TBID, or state-owned) make up the
northeast border of the city and include undeveloped parcels along the
corridor unintentionally buffering the river from development.
Meadowbrook golf course and multifamily developments (built in 1978 to
1997) are the closest developed parcels that will likely redevelop sometime
in the future. Enhanced protection standards should be adopted to preserve
the river corridor as a community asset and to support the regional vision
for the Jordan River.
Natural Space Opportunities
The presence of existing parks, canals and the Jordan River create the
opportunity for the creation of a network of trails that function as green
connective corridors, which are identified by Wasatch Front Regional
Council as a vital piece to its Green Infrastructure Plan. These green
connective corridors should include trees and vegetation that can support
wildlife and pollinators, and create spaces where residents can visit to feel a
reprieve from the city. The purple areas on map 9.4.2 illustrate
neighborhoods where residents must walk more than ten minutes to access
a natural or open space. Many of these neighborhoods are bisected by
canals that could be improved to function as these green corridors.

Community Vision
Responsible stewardship of the Jordan River and implementation of water conservation                  Map 9.4.2
measures is the most effective way for Taylorsville to impact the Great Salt Lake. Blueprint          Proximity to Public Open or Natural Space
Jordan River identifies methods such as reducing impermeable surfaces near the corridor and           Canals and their maintenance roads bisect several areas in
onsite stormwater management using ponds and bioswales as key low impact methods to                   the city where residents must walk more than ten minutes to
preserving or improving the health of the corridor. To protect our natural assets, as members of      access a public natural or open space. These may provide
the Jordan River Commission, the city should require best practices presented in the blueprint        space for green corridors that provide environmental benefits
and acknowledge the importance of the corridor by creating design standards for the sensitive         and increase access to nature for residents.
lands overlay that require low impact design standards and strongly incentivize innovative and
progressive development practices that preserve or enhance the health of the ecosystem for
wildlife and people to enjoy.
The city can identify and coordinate with regional resources and property owners of land
adjacent to canals to restore or enhance these areas and provide access to underused land
around canals to create multi-beneficial trail systems that function as connective green corridors.
Such improvements can reduce habitat fragmentation and provide heat mitigation, while also
bringing more natural green space to areas in need of its benefits. The city can explore
partnering with property owners to create small nature pockets, demonstration sites and pilot
collaboration projects to explore and establish best practices for improvement efforts.

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                            9-22
 Environmental Stewardship Objective 9.4: Preserve and enhance local and
 regional natural amenities.

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
9.4-A: Monitor and implement Great Salt Lake Council advisory actions to increase water flow to
       Great Salt Lake through water conservation measures in other sections of this chapter.
       Review the Great Salt Lake Water Conservation Toolbox for implementation ideas.
9.4-B: Codify best practices from Blueprint Jordan River for new development.
9.4-C: Continue to support of the Jordan River Commission and implementing best practices
       from Blueprint to enhance the Taylorsville portion of the Jordan River.
9.4-D:    Reduce habitat fragmentation and encourage passive recreation and access to nature
          for all residents and workers in Taylorsville. Review tools identified in this General Plan
          to determine potential areas for green improvements. Engage with property owners and
          gauge interest and willingness to enhance the areas surrounding canals.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                        9-23
9.5 Environmental Stewardship Green Infrastructure
Green infrastructure can be implemented on a range of scales by harnessing natural processes
using vegetation and soil to create healthier urban environments. It can be accomplished
through intentional conservation or creation of green space, “creating a patchwork of natural
areas that provides habitat, flood protection, cleaner air, and cleaner water” (WFRC). The
purpose of this section is to identify new or age-old practices that use natural processes and
have a multi-beneficial outcome, addressing common concerns for residents of Taylorsville. As
cities continue to investigate and implement green infrastructure systems, more is revealed
about the benefits of replacing gray infrastructure with green. As Taylorsville harnesses these
vital services, it will benefit from associated increases in social, physical, mental, and economic
wellbeing as the city more intentionally addresses the natural environment within the urban
fabric.

Existing Conditions
Air Quality
The geography of the Salt Lake Valley produces unique air quality challenges. Winter inversions
trap industrial, building and vehicle emissions beneath a smoggy layer of cold air. The air in the
peak of summer brings different air quality challenges as ozone mixes with nitrogen oxides
(NOx) and volatile organic compounds (VOC) to form harmful air pollutants. Due to these
geographic constraints and realities, public health related to air quality must be managed by
reducing the pollutants released and employing methods to mitigate the impacts of those that
are. As mentioned in previous sections, vegetation sequesters, or stores carbon and cities that
have implemented greening initiatives have seen improvements to their air quality. Significant
improvements to air quality can also be improved by reducing the number of vehicle miles
driven using methods to increase transit use and active transportation, discussed throughout
this General Plan.
Water Quality
Stormwater is one of the greatest challenges to water quality. After snow or rainfall, water flows
off impervious surface areas such as paved streets, parking lots, and building rooftops and is
conveyed to the river and its tributaries. This runoff often contains pollutants that adversely
affect water quality. Bioswales have been shown to reduce runoff pollutants in the range of 80%
-90%. Water-sensitive urban design offers an alternative to the traditional conveyance approach
of stormwater management. Incorporating river-friendly designs into the built environment
minimizes the detrimental effects of impervious surfaces, and mitigates impacts to the natural
water ecosystems. In addition to water conservation efforts noted in Section 9.1, effectively
managing and reusing storm and rain water can also help conservation efforts. Low-impact
development and green infrastructure can use soil, gravel, and plants to filter out nutrients and


Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                      9-24
surface pollution from runoff while also irrigating landscaping. Aside from the already mentioned
benefits, porous surfaces also reduce the rate of runoff and the need for deicing salts by melting
snow and ice faster.
Heat
As mentioned in previous sections, heat island effect is a growing concern for urban areas.
Pervious concretes have been shown to store less energy and therefore are more effective at
dissipating the high temperatures than
traditional impervious concretes store.
Vegetation, particularly broadleaf foliage
like trees provide reflectivity, cooling shade
and evapotranspiration that lead to lower
temperatures as well. Random sampling
estimates indicate that approximately 40
percent of Taylorsville is impervious
surfaces, and 7 percent bare soil/dirt. Nearly
50 percent of the surface area in Taylorsville
is either not absorbing water or contributing
to runoff, with the high percentage of
impervious surfaces also contributing to the
urban heat island effect. Implementing low-
impact requirements such as buffers around
                                               Illustration 9.5.1
water bodies, bioswales along parking lots,
and incentivizing innovative parking, Percent of Land Cover by Type
landscaping, or water reuse designs should Source: , i-Tree Canopy , Cover Assessment and Tree Benefits Report. Estimated using random sampling statistics on 12/3/2024.
be highly encouraged as Taylorsville
continues to grow.

Community Vision
Supporting compact and mixed-use development patterns, as noted in the Chapter 3: Land Use,
should be considered to help minimize negative impacts often times associated with urban
development. As development and redevelopment continues in Taylorsville, the city should
incentivize innovation and encourage elements that lower vehicle use, mitigate heat island effect,
and consider water quality and conservation.




Taylorsville General Plan       Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                                       9-25
 Environmental Stewardship Objective 9.5: Preserve and enhance local and
 regional natural amenities. [continued from previous page]

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
9.5-A: Explore alternative porous materials for bike lanes and sidewalks to decrease need for ice
       melt chemicals and visible delineation between bike and vehicle lanes.
9.5-B: Codify best practices for green infrastructure to maintain functionality of systems (i.e. silt
       or trash removal to maintain drainage capacity).
9.5-C: Encourage and provide flexibility for projects that incorporate sustainability principles in
       design such as rain water harvesting and cool roofs on new structures. Explore methods
       to incentivize LID in parking lot landscaping such as bioswales, rain gutters, and increased
       tree coverage.
9.5-D: Update city code to allow alternative materials for impervious parking explore allowing
       pavers, gravel, or other porous materials for parking.
9.5-E: Adopt a policy to maintain the current impervious land cover percentages by
       encouraging clustered development, porous materials where appropriate, and increasing
       vegetation cover.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                        9-26
9.6 Environmental Stewardship Waste Management and Recycling
Waste management directly and indirectly impacts environmental health, land use, and air
quality. With such far reaching effects, waste management policies and practices warrant
examination and identification of opportunities for improvement. Responsible policies that
support conscientious practices will lessen negative impacts as consumption rates and state
population continue to rise.

Existing Conditions
The City contracts with Wasatch Front Waste & Recycling District (WFWRD) for residential solid
waste disposal and recycling. Residential waste collected in Taylorsville is primarily sent to the
Salt Lake Valley Landfill. Once there, waste undergoes the decomposition process, a byproduct
of which is carbon dioxide and methane gases. Both gases are linked to the greenhouse effect,
with methane being 28 times more potent over a 100-year period than carbon dioxide. It has
been reported that reducing methane emissions will have a “rapid and significant effect on
atmospheric warming potential” (EPA, Importance of Methane). With over 147 million tons of
                                                                                                         Illustration 9.6.1
waste decomposing in United States landfills each year, municipal solid waste landfills are the
                                                                                                         Service Area Contamination Rates
third greatest contributor of national methane emissions (14.3% during 2021).                            Taylorsville residents have historically had high presence of
The Salt Lake Valley Landfill is approximately 400 acres, is located 11 miles from Taylorsville, and     plastic bags in residential recycling containers. New audit
                                                                                                         and education methods have lead to a decrease in
is projected to reach capacity by 2088. At that time, the Intermountain Regional Landfill, 30 miles
                                                                                                         contamination rates throughout the service area.
from Taylorsville, will become the primary destination for residential waste, quadrupling the            Data provided by WFWRD
travel time for residential solid waste. This shift may increase service prices and emissions relative
to what they are today. Reducing the amount of waste through consumption and disposal
behaviors will extend the lifespan of the landfill, mitigate price increases, lessen negative impacts
on air quality, and conserve valuable land.
Residential
WFWRD provides waste management services to nearly 13,800 Taylorsville households, each
generating about 2,463 pounds of waste annually, on par with the national average of 2,000 to
7,000 pounds annually (dependent on household size). One effective means of diverting waste is
through curbside recycling. As of 2025, Taylorsville’s annual household recycling rate is
approximately 13 percent (370 pounds) per household per year; below the national average
reported by the EPA of 32 percent. WFWRD conducts regular route audits to collect data on the
volume a recycling can is filled compared to the percentage that is contaminated with
unrecyclable materials such as plastic bags. Combining the information with customer education           Illustration 9.6.2
has resulted in a declining contamination rate (Illustration 9.6.1). These figures do not include        Annual Cleanup Day (2025)
rates from residential green and glass recycling services; approximately 11 percent and under 1          Taylorsville Green Committee holds annual cleanup day for
percent of Taylorsville customers subscribe to these optional services, respectively.                    hard to recycle items, saving critical landfill space and
                                                                                                         resources.


Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                                                                              9-27
Commercial
Commercial and multifamily residential properties contract individually for private sector trash
hauling services. Most providers service multiple cities daily, making it difficult to estimate commercial
and multifamily waste generated in Taylorsville. One provider reported a 4.4 percent recycling rate
among the 173 Taylorsville accounts served, with a recycling contamination rate of 30-40 percent.
Another provider identified a 3 percent recycling rate among the 25 commercial accounts serviced.
Food Waste
It is estimated that each person in the United States produces about one pound of food waste per
day. For Taylorsville, this translates to approximately 20 million pounds per year, most of which is
landfilled, where it decomposes and releases greenhouse gases. Food waste presents an opportunity
to save valuable space in landfills, capture methane gas from the atmosphere and convert it to
energy using a process known as anaerobic digestion. Utah currently has one facility that receives and
processes food waste. In 2024, the facility captured enough natural gas to heat 1,200 houses for one
year and diverted 400 tons of food waste from the landfills per week. Two Taylorsville entities use this
system, but the city has hundreds of food waste generating uses that could use this service, including
schools, restaurants, and grocery stores. One obstacle may be finding space for the needed additional
waste receptacle.

Community Vision
Nationally, municipalities are beginning to implement plans and programs to achieve zero-waste
goals. Taylorsville can begin by setting waste diversion goals and supporting strategies that
incorporate new findings and technologies to capture and redirect certain waste types to alternative
destinations. Waste diversion can have a range of indirect and direct benefits including conserving
finite landfill space, reducing harmful emissions, and slowing the need for natural resource extraction
by extending the life cycle of valuable materials.
The City can conduct a divertability analysis, and coordinate with waste management services and
businesses to look for opportunities to lower the volume of trash sent to landfills. Educating
businesses about recycling would help divert food waste or other waste materials. Construction of
new developments or redevelopment presents opportunities to divert large quantities of waste as
well, with several facilities in the Salt Lake Valley that provide construction recycling services.
Taylorsville can require a recycling plan for demolished materials or explore methods to incentivize
the use of recycled materials in new development.
The city should model responsible consumption and be a leader to residents and workers. Taylorsville
should use resources and partnerships with WFWRD, the Green Committee, and other groups to
raise recycling awareness to improve waste diversion. Specialists have shown that clearly designating
the use of bins yields significant results: 100% increases in recycling in some national parks, 0%
contamination rates in schools, and 91% diversion rates with close to zero contamination at large
sporting events. Using public events to highlight methods and opportunities can educate and
demonstrate Taylorsville’s commitment to more responsible consumption and waste practices.

Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                             9-28
Environmental Stewardship Objective 9.6: Divert waste from landfill.

 Recommendations, Strategies and Actions
9.6-A: Establish goal to increase residential recycling rates from 13 percent to 30 percent by
       2030. Collaborate with WFWR Sustainability Coordinator to engage in education and
       public outreach.
9.6-B: Decrease residential contamination rate to 10 percent by 2030 through education and
       public outreach. Collaborate with WFWR and organizations (Recycle Across America, EPA
       grants) to implement best practices such as creating standardized labels for receptacles.
9.6-C: Add recycling receptacle to trash enclosure standards for new multifamily and
       commercial development.
9.6-D: Explore methods to increase commercial recycling in Taylorsville.
9.6-E: Create and distribute a construction demolition debris handout to educate contractors
       about resources to recycle and divert waste.
9.6-F: Explore ways to incentivize building conversions or building material reuse to reduce
       resource consumption and save embodied energy.
9.6-G: Consider partnering with regional providers for food waste recycling at city-sponsored
       events such as Taylorsville Dayzz and Starry Nights.
9.6-H: Inform and encourage food-related commercial uses to consider food waste diversion
       programs. Consider codifying standards that allow flexibility in development standards if
       needed for additional receptacles.




Taylorsville General Plan   Chapter 9: Environmental Stewardship                                   9-29
