                                   TAYLORSVILLE, UTAH
                                    ORDINANCE NO. 23- 03

        AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TAYLORSVILLE APPROVING AN
 AMENDMENT TO TAYLORSVILLE GENERAL PLAN CHAPTER 8— MODERATE
                                     INCOME HOUSING.


       WHEREAS the Taylorsville        City Council ( the " Council") met in regular session on
February 1, 2023, to consider, among other things, approving an amendment to the Taylorsville
General Plan Chapter 8— Moderate Income Housing; and


       WHEREAS, pursuant to TAYLORSVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE Section 13. 35. 030, notice of a
public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was published on the city' s official website
on January 12, 2023; and

       WHEREAS the notice of a public hearing before the City' s Planning Commission was
also published on the Utah Public Notice Website on January 12, 2023; and

        WHEREAS the City' s Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing on
the proposed amendments on January 24, 2023, during which the Planning Commission voted 6-
0 to recommend that the Council approve the proposed General Plan amendment; and


       WHEREAS, although not required by City ordinances, the City Council heard courtesy
public comment on the proposed amendments during its regularly scheduled meeting on February
1, 2023; and


       WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety, and welfare ;of the citizens of Taylorsville to approve the proposed
amendments.




       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Taylorsville City Council that the
proposed amendments to the Taylorsville General       Plan Chapter 8— Moderate Income Housing are
hereby approved, as articulated in Exhibit" A,"
                                            and the City of Taylorsville 2019 Moderate- Income
Housing Study is retained as an addendum to Chapter 8, as articulated in Exhibit" B."

       This ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 23- 03, shall take effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.


       PASSED AND APPROVED this 1st day of February, 2023.


                                              TAYLORSV          LE/CITY COUNCIL


                                              By: //          lam     ---   1



                                                  Robert Knudsen, Council Chair




                                                  1
                                                        VOTING:


                                                        Meredith Harker                        Yeas Nay
                                                        Ernest Burgess                         Yea      Nay
                                                        Robert Knudsen                         Yea //   Nay
                                                        Curt Cochran                           Yea ,    Nay
                                                        Anna Barbieri                          Yea /    Nay


         PRESENTED          to      Mayor     of   Taylorsville    for her      approval     this   /         day of
                                2023.




         APPROVED this              I6       day of                         1    ,   23.'
                                                                                     •




                                                        Mayor Kristie S. Overson
ATTEST:




                                                                    GpRPO:?"
                                                                   4C)    v.,%ia
                                                                                      C"-•

                                                                   s   ""   sem[ r
                  1         1        1 A

K'   S   Hor
               Recorder ( O`=P
                      s-,
                                         .                     y       G%
                                                                        y
                                                                            9°3-'"
                                                                       r••••:...•• ,
                                                                            F

         DEPOSITED in the Recorder' s office this.                      day of

         POSTED this ,          '   day of                              023.




                                                           2
8 Moderate Income Housing
    It’s hard to argue that housing is not a fundamental human need. Decent,
  affordable housing should be a basic right for everybody in this country. The
         reason is simple: without stable shelter, everything else falls apart.
                                                             Matthew Desmond
                                                             Author and Professor
Matthew Desmond is a sociology professor at Princeton University. In 2016 Desmond authored Evicted: Poverty and Profit in the American City. Among other
             national awards, Evicted won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction and the 2016 National Book Critics Circle Award.
Over the last decade, housing shortages and housing affordability have emerged as the most                    Year          Additional Households Relative to Additional
prominent land use issues in the Salt Lake metropolitan region. Rapid population growth                                      Housing Units Constructed (2010 to 2020)
coupled with decreased home building—driven by the “Great Recession”—has led to shortages                    2010                                   +15,381
and the resulting escalation of home prices in the Salt Lake regional market. Population                     2011                                   +13,530
projections that estimate continued rapid growth, coupled with decreasing household sizes, and
                                                                                                             2012                                    +9,079
a scarcity of vacant land in Salt Lake County, will continue to make housing availability and
affordability a major issue in Taylorsville, the metro area, and the entire State. Housing                   2013                                    +2,622
affordability has reached such a crisis level that the Utah State Legislature in 2018 (Senate Bill 34)       2014                                    +1,400
required that cities in the State address moderate income housing (defined in Utah Code as                   2015                                    +6,857
“housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by households with a gross income equal to or                    2016                                    +4,362
less than 80% of the median gross income for households of the same size in the county in
                                                                                                             2017                                    +2,998
which the city is located.”) in their general plans. The Legislature updated and further defined
                                                                                                             2018                                    -1,106
requirements for moderate income housing in municipal general plans in 2022 with the passage
of House Bill 462. The new statute requires communities to plan for housing for residents of all             2019                                    -3,149
income levels; coordinate planning efforts for moderate income housing with transportation and               2020                                    -7,485
other land uses; and enable people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in             Total                                  +44,489
all aspects of neighborhood and community life. Additionally, cities must incorporate at least
                                                                                                         Table 8.0.1
three “moderate income housing strategies” identified in State Code 10-9a-403 (2)(b)(iii) and (iv)
                                                                                                         Cumulative Shortage of Housing Units in Utah
that support affordable housing and report annually on their progress implementing their                 As a percentage of population, Utah was the fastest
Moderate-Income Housing plans (see section 8.4 State Moderate Income Housing                             growing state in the country from 2010-2020. Construction
Requirements).                                                                                           of new housing units, however, didn’t keep pace. Despite
                                                                                                         major strides to build new housing in the last part of the
                                                                                                         decade, the State still created 44,489 more households than
                                                                                                         housing units.
                                                                                                         Source: Kem Gardner Policy Institute, University of Utah
As Taylorsville approaches full build-out, developing additional housing becomes particularly
challenging. However the City remains committed to studying opportunities for future
redevelopment that will reduce housing cost-burden, improve air quality, and provide residents
with a better community experience. Due to the lack of greenfield development opportunities,
future housing development will be centered around infill and the transitions of existing land
use. The City has embarked on several long-range planning projects to examine the
redevelopment of the community. Each one of the studies looks at opportunities for future land
use transitions with the intent of reducing the cost burden for Taylorsville residents through
integrated community design, utilization of multi-modal transportation options, and
development centered around access to opportunities, housing choices, and a diversified job
market.

2019 City of Taylorsville Moderate Income Housing Plan
The Moderate Income Housing Chapter of the General Plan is supplemented by the City of
Taylorsville 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan completed by BBC Research and Consulting of
Denver, CO. This study, commissioned in 2018 at the request of Taylorsville City, was adopted in
2019 to address requirements of SB34—Affordable Housing Modifications from the 2018 Utah
legislative session. The 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan is hereby re-adopted as an
addendum to the updated Moderate Income Housing Plan to support the findings, goals,
objectives, and strategies of this document.




                                                                                                   Illustration 8.0.2
                                                                                                   City of Taylorsville 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan
                                                                                                   Commissioned by the City of Taylorsville in 2018, the City of
                                                                                                   Taylorsville 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan completed
                                                                                                   by BBC Research and Consulting is an addendum to Chapter
                                                                                                   8 to support it’s findings, goals, objectives, and strategies.
8.1 Housing Programs


Community Partnerships
Using Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) and HOME funds granted to the City from
the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the City funds several low to
moderate-income housing programs. These programs are targeted at residents 80% or below
AMI and are intended to keep residents in their homes while also preserving the unique
character of Taylorsville neighborhoods. The City utilizes CDBG and HOME funds for the
following programs:
• Housing rehabilitation—organizations like ASSIST and Community Development
     Corporation of Utah (CDC) provide housing rehabilitation programs for low- to moderate-
     income residents. Through the Salt Lake County Consortium, the City also has access to
     County-funded housing rehab programs like Green and Healthy Homes, Habitat for
     Humanity, and NeighborWorks Salt Lake. Additionally, the City funds the Idea House
     program administered by CDC, which is a program that purchases blighted homes and
     renovates them using energy efficient materials to reduce the overall monthly payment for
     the homeowner. The City’s housing rehab programs help low- to moderate-income
     residents stay in their homes while also preserving the character of the City’s neighborhoods.
• Down Payment Assistance—the City has partnered with CDC to offer down payment
     assistance to first time home buyers looking to purchase homes in Taylorsville. This program
     provides an extra incentive for residents 80% AMI or below to be able to purchase a home.        Illustration 8.1.1
     While this program is a great resource, the City has seen challenges with residents being        Plymouth View Senior Apartments.
     able to utilize the funding because of the rising costs of housing along the Wasatch Front.      Constructed in 2011, the Plymouth View Senior Apartments,
     Additionally, as demonstrated in this report, there is a shortage of homes that moderate-        located at 4764 South Plymouth View Drive, is a LEED
     income families can afford, and those homes only stay on the market for several days.            certified 65-unit project developed and managed by the
                                                                                                      Utah Non-profit Housing Corporation. Apartments within
The City of Taylorsville utilizes the resources of Housing Connect, formerly the Housing Authority
                                                                                                      the complex are reserved for residents aged 62 and above
of the County of Salt Lake (HACSL). Housing Connect has 32 units of public housing located in         with an income of 50% or less of the area median income.
Taylorsville and provides rental assistance to another 154 households under the Section 8             Project partners included the City of Taylorsville (land
Housing Choice Voucher program. All households are extremely low-income, earning on average           donation), Salt Lake County, Olene Walker Housing Loan
$13,000 per year. The organization has recently gone through an extensive process with the US         Fund, and the US Department of Housing and Urban
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to transition its public housing portfolio          Development.
to a more stable structure, through Disposition and Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD)
programs. Taylorsville has met with Housing Connect to monitor this process and support it
where it is appropriate.
Moderate Income Housing Objective 8.1.1 Develop and maintain strong community
partnerships that help provide housing options for all residents despite age, income,
race, or ability.

Actions:
A 8.1.1 (a):   Develop a marketing plan for housing programs that can be provided to
               community-based partners.
A 8.1.1 (b):   Create an inventory of housing programs and make that information readily
               available to real estate agents and to existing and potential residents seeking
               homeownership opportunities, housing rehabilitation services and rental
               assistance.
A 8.1.1 (c):   Purchase, rehab and sell homes to residents 80% AMI or below through the City’s
               Idea House program.
A 8.1.1 (d):   Assist income eligible first-time homebuyers in a purchasing homes in Taylorsville
               through the Down Payment Assistance program.
A 8.1.1 (e):   Maintain a close partnership with Housing Connect (formerly the Housing
               Authority of Salt Lake County) to facilitate rental assistance vouchers or other
               eligible programs to residents.
A 8.1.1 (f):   Work with community-based partners to develop a Taylorsville specific marketing
               policy.


Policies and Best Practices:
P 8.1.1 (a):   Promote an understanding of housing needs regardless of income, age and ability.
P 8.1.1 (b):   Encourage and support community partnerships through funding resources,
               resource collaboration and marketing.
P8.1.1 (c):    Support the development of new and innovative strategies by community partners
               to assist residents in obtaining housing choice while minimizing housing cost
               burden.


Incentives
The City of Taylorsville, in conjunction with the State of Utah, Salt Lake County and other
partners, have several incentive-based programs to assist in the development and retention of
the moderate-income housing stock. Incentives and financing programs are an important tool
that can be used by the City and the development community. These incentives or programs
that are available in the City or can be implemented by the City are outlined in detail below:
•   Community Reinvestment—In August 2019 the Redevelopment Agency of the City of
    Taylorsville passed Resolution RDA 19-04 “A Resolution of the Redevelopment Agency of
    Taylorsville City Board Authorizing the Use of Housing Funds.” This resolution follows the
    statutory framework outlined in UCA §17C-1-412 (1)(a) that states a Community
    Reinvestment Agency shall use twenty percent (20%) of Tax Increment from Urban Renewal
    Project Areas and Project Areas where blight was found as approved in the Project Area Plan
    and Budget for housing within the Project Area or affordable housing within the boundaries
    of the City. Resolution RDA 19-04 further reinforces the RDA’s existing policy that was
    developed in 2008 with the formation of the first project area in Taylorsville that the City will
    continue using the 20% housing set aside according to statutory requirements and to attract
    additional investment in the City. The Tax Increment can be used on the items outlined
    below and in Resolution RDA 19-04, but are not limited to:
         Replacement housing units,
         Planned and proposed housing, affordable housing, or income targeted housing,
         Student housing,
         Mobile home park resident housing,
         Debt service for bonds to build housing and units, or
         Other allowed housing purposes.
•   Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC)—LIHTC is a federal low-income housing tax credit
    program that will provide a subsidy for the construction of affordable rental units serving
    residents at 60% area median income or below. Developers can utilize a competitive 9%
    credit or a 4% IRS credit. The Utah Housing Corporation manages the LIHTC program in
    Utah and ensures compliance with IRS requirements and long-term deed restrictions. LIHTC
    has been a successful tool used on a national and local level to build and sustain the
    moderate-income housing stock.
•   Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund (OWHLF): The OWHLF develops housing that is
    affordable to very low-, low-, and moderate-income households as defined by HUD.
    OWLHF offers financial assistance for the acquisition, construction, or rehabilitation of
    multi-family housing. The Fund has resources to help disabled residents with financial
    and mortgage assistance.
•   Density Bonus—Density bonus programs can be a resource used by developers to
    leverage additional units over what typical zoning standards allow. Density bonuses are
    also commonly used to complement the use of LIHTEC tax credits. A density bonus can
    provide an increase in the number of dwelling units per acre, or overall height or floor
    area ratio with the ultimate goal of more units being built on a single parcel. These
    programs allow for a percentage of increase in baseline permitted density in exchange
    for affordable housing units.
•   Land Acquisition—Many communities use land acquisition as a means to incentivize
    developers to create moderate-income housing stock. This tool creates a public-private
    partnership in which the City owns land and, through a competitive process, “grants”
    the land to a qualified developer to build a housing product that addresses the needs of
    the community. This program helps reduce the parcel purchase cost for the developer
    and is a mechanism to help the overall affordability of the project.
•   Bonding for Infrastructure Development-- Some communities use this tool to accelerate
    installation of or reconstruction of above and underground utilities and infrastructure.

Moderate Income Housing Objective 8.1.2: Create and utilize existing programs to
incentivize the development community to create moderate-income housing and to
potentially reduce development costs associated with housing production.

Actions:
A 8.1.2 (a):   Develop a best practice guide on housing incentive programs supported by the
               City.
A 8.1.2 (b):   Market incentive programs to developers and provide resources to developers to
               leverage those programs.
A 8.1.2 (c):   Consider strategic acquisition or rezoning of property within the City that can be
               used for the development of mixed-use and mixed-income developments.
A 8.1.2 (d):   Develop and present for consideration to the Taylorsville Planning Commission
               and City Council an ordinance amendment or official policy of the city that:.
               • Offers density incentives for multi-family residential projects that include a
                  minimum number of targeted units to residents at 50% AMI or below.
               • Requires any multi-family project that receives a City incentive to dedicate a
                  minimum number of units to residents at 50% AMI or below.
               • Establishes minimum affordable housing requirements for all new multi-family
                  projects.
               • Clarifies criteria for utilizing and prioritizing incentive based programs for
                  housing.
               •   Requires all new multi-family developments within 1/2 mile of a Major Transit
                   Investment Corridor to have a minimum percentage of units dedicated to
                   residents at 50% AMI or below.
A 80.1.2 (e): The RDA will continue to track, set aside, and use the 20% housing TIF allocation as
              authorized by State Code and City Ordinance.
Policies and Best Practices:
P 8.1.2 (a):   Encourage the utilization of LIHTC for the development of moderate-income
               housing in the City targeting populations 50% AMI or below.
P 8.1.2 (b):   Promote the utilization of incentive-based programs for the development of
               moderate-income housing in Taylorsville.
P 8.1.2 (c):   Utilize State and County resources to further the development of moderate-income
               housing in Taylorsville .
P 8.1.2 (d):   Consider policy changes that would allow for an expediated review process for
               projects that focus on moderate income housing.

Preserve Existing Housing Stock
The preservation of existing housing stock and community character is of utmost importance to
the City and its residents. Maintaining the existing housing stock allows residents to age in place
and provides housing choice for residents through all stages of life. Additionally, ensuring that
low to moderate-income residents have the resources needed to assist with housing
rehabilitation projects is an important resource for the City to provide. Neighborhoods are the
fabric of a community and are a critical component to preserving the character of the City.
Moderate Income Housing Objective 8.1.3: Preserve the character of Taylorsville
neighborhoods by maintaining and rehabilitating existing housing stock to ensure
housing options for residents through all stages of life.

Actions:
A 8.1.3 (a):   Develop a city ordinance that requires a Taylorsville specific relocation plan for any land
               use transition that impacts the moderate-income housing supply.
A 8.1.3 (b):   Evaluate a city-run program that would provide design standards, guidelines, and
               assistance for home rehab projects.
A 8.1.3 (c):   Perform an assessment of the City’s existing housing stock to identify neighborhoods that
               would benefit from housing rehabilitation programs.
A 8.1.3 (d):   Evaluate city ordinances, standards, and regulations to determine if there are barriers to
               maintaining and improving the City’s existing housing stock.

Policies and Best Practices:
P 8.1.3 (a):   Help maintain existing moderate income housing stock through community
               partnerships.
P 8.1.3 (b):   Ensure that all housing programs enacted by the City preserve and/or enhance the
               quality and/or unique character of existing Taylorsville neighborhoods.
8.2 Land Use Transitions and Zoning Ordinances


As population continues to increase, the demand for housing will continue to rise and infill rede-
velopment will be the foundation of future land use transitions in the City. Additionally, the City
will continue to see a rise in the number of seniors with the aging of its largest age cohort—
residents between the age of 35 and 54 years. With two higher education facilities in Taylorsville,
it will be important to provide housing and resources for the students attending Salt Lake Com-
munity College and the Utah State University Extension. With these factors in mind, it will be im-
perative that the City works closely with developers to ensure that future land use transitions
increase the moderate-income housing stock, support home ownership, and reduce the rental
gap. Land use transitions that impact existing housing stock should have a Taylorsville specific
relocation plan that meets the housing needs of the displaced residents.
It is imperative that the City has zoning ordinances and land use designations in place that facili-
tate the type of development Taylorsville residents expect and enjoy, while also ensuring an ade-
quate housing stock that provides for a variety of future housing options. The City will need to
review existing development ordinances to ensure that they provide flexibility, options, and op-
portunities to address infill redevelopment on a case-by-case basis. In the development of the
Moderate-Income Housing Plan, current zoning ordinances and the Zoning Map were reviewed
to determine any barriers to the development of moderate-income housing. No impediments
were found. However, the City will continue to amend ordinances and land uses to ensure it is
staying competitive in the development market.
Moderate Income Housing Objective 8.2.1: Develop and maintain a vision for future
land use transitions and ensure the City’s municipal code allows for the transitions
and housing stock that meet the needs of Taylorsville residents.

Actions:
A 8.2.1 (a):   Annually review ordinances, codes, regulations, and the permitting process to eliminate
               requirements that discourage a diversity of housing types in the City.
A 8.2.1 (b):   Conduct developer, builder, and stakeholder focus groups to discuss barriers to affordable
               housing development and what role the City should play in facilitating development and
               redevelopment.
A 8.2.1 (c):   Review standards, ordinances and criteria for the acceleration of Accessory Dwelling Units
               (ADU’s) and guest houses to allow their continued uses
A 8.2.1 (d):   Study the possibility of a legalization process for existing ADU’s and guest houses to
               recognize them to be legal non-conforming uses.
                                      [Continued on Next Page]
Actions [continued]:
A 8.2.1 (e):   Study best practices from other communities with the intent to pursue enabling external
               accessory dwelling units.
A 8.2.1 (f):   Explore text amendments to the municipal code that impact minimum lot size, setbacks
               reductions, minimum house size, flag lots, and deep lots.
A 8.2.1 (g):   Annually review the Taylorsville Zoning Map to determine areas where higher density
               housing or other housing fits within the vision for the City. Specific consideration will be
               paid to major transportation corridors.
A 8.2.1 (h):   Develop a Taylorsville-specific relocation plan for any redevelopment that impacts existing
               moderate-income housing.
A 8.2.1 (i):   Continue to conduct studies and develop small area master plans for nodes throughout the
               City to better understand what land use transitions are appropriate to facilitate job creation
               and retention, economic prosperity, moderate-income housing development, and
               economic sustainability.
A 8.2.1(j):    Develop a report examining redevelopment potential of underutilized properties that
               analyzes vacancy rates, structure to land value ratio, status of delinquent property taxes, and
               potential partnerships to create mixed-income residential projects.


Policies and Best Practices:
P 8.2.1 (a):   Utilize where appropriate the Site-Specific Development (SSD) ordinance as a
               mechanism to create moderate-income housing in the City.
P 8.2.1 (b):   The City will review any proposed development, redevelopment or code
               amendment for potential impacts on housing, including potential impacts on
               special needs, elderly, or low-income populations, including if those changes could
               result in displacement.
P 8.2.1 (c):   Encourage energy efficient and sustainable development practices as a means to
               reduce monthly expenses.
P 8.2.1 (d):   As the demand for housing continues to rise, the City will continue to look for ways
               to add units to the City’s housing stock.
P 8.2.1 (e):   Continue to foster and develop relationships with the higher education facilities in
               the City to ensure student housing needs are being met.
P 8.2.1 (f):   Encourage mixed-use structures where the underlying zone supports such
               development to maximize land potential.
8.3 Transportation Infrastructure




The City of Taylorsville is primarily built-out, which poses unique challenges in addressing the
development of moderate-income housing. Future housing development in Taylorsville will
include redevelopment and transitions of existing land uses. With that in mind, the City will
continue to look at factors that contribute to residents’ housing costs and mechanisms to
reduce the overall housing cost burden. Transportation costs are a major contributing factor to
monthly expenditures for Taylorsville residents.
Transportation Infrastructure :
•   Roads—The City has several large transportation projects projected in the next five years,
    one of which is the reconstruction of Redwood Road from 5400 South to 4100 South. The
    Redwood Road project will consist of reconfiguring lanes, adding bus pullouts,
    consolidating access points, widening walkways, installing a park strip with street trees, and
    adding pedestrian scale lighting. This project is important because it will facilitate the
    creation of a safer pedestrian experience on Redwood Road, which will enhance walkability
    along a key corridor in the community and will provide better access to transit opportunities
    along Redwood Road. The Redwood Road Corridor is one of UTA’s most heavily used bus
    routes in the State. Additionally, this Corridor has high rates of ADA ramp deployments.
•   Bus Rapid Transit—Taylorsville is working with UTA, UDOT, Murray, Salt Lake County, Salt
    Lake Community College, and West Valley City on the construction of the Mid-Valley
    Connector Bus Rapid Transit project. The Mid-Valley BRT as dictated on the Regional
    Transportation Plan is a BRT line that connects Taylorsville residents to the Murray Front
    Runner and TRAX station (Murray Central Station) and the West Valley TRAX and MAXX
    lines (West Valley Central Station). The BRT route in Taylorsville will have a center-running
    dedicated bus lane down 4700 South and a complete street with active transportation
    routes, wide pedestrian pathways, and safe crossings to the stations. As the BRT enters into
    the heart of the City, the bus will have a station at Salt Lake Community College and will
    continue down the 4700 South corridor to 2700 West, with stations planned by the State
    office complex. The BRT line will provide residents access to multi-modal transportation
    options through the utilization of bus, rail, bicycle, and pedestrian improvements.
    Taylorsville residents will have connectivity to a regional network of transit options, which
    will potentially help reduce household transportation costs.
•   Transit Oriented Development—Transit Oriented Development (TOD) is development that is
    centered around transit opportunities. TOD usually consists of high density, mixed-use
    buildings, pedestrian scale environment, walkability, connectivity, parking reductions and
    inter-modal opportunities. TOD focuses on the pedestrian rather than the auto. TOD is a
    catalyst for reducing housing cost burden from transportation costs as TOD communities
    are centered around access to transit opportunities. Additionally, TOD development typically
    allows for higher densities and is ranked high when applying for incentives.
•   Major Transit Investment Corridor—Major Transit Investment Corridors (MTIC) are a new
    tool that was included in the 2019 Housing Affordability Modifications legislation passed by
    the State Legislature. MTIC’s can consist of a public transit rail right-of-way, dedicated road
    right-of-way for the use of bus rapid transit, or fixed-route bus corridors that are subject to
    an interlocal agreement. The Wasatch Front Regional Council has identified three areas in
    Taylorsville that could be classified as MTIC. These areas include the Mid-Valley Connector
    Bus Rapid Transit, the Redwood Road fixed-bus route, and the 5400 South fixed-bus route.
•   Trails—Trails, active transportation routes, safe-walking routes to school, and connectivity to
    key destinations and nodes within the City comprise a critical component to providing a safe
    pedestrian environment that facilitates multi-modal transportation opportunities and
    reduces transportation costs. The City of Taylorsville recently participated in the Mid-Valley
    Active Transportation Plan, which is a six city plan to develop a regional active transportation
    backbone. The Mid-Valley Plan will connect Taylorsville to Murray, Millcreek, Holladay,
    Cottonwood Heights and Midvale. This plan builds upon existing regional active
    transportation plans.
Moderate Income Housing Objective 8.3.1: Invest in infrastructure that facilitates
access to multi-modal transportation opportunities and promotes walkability and
connectivity within the City.
Actions:
A 8.3.1 (a):   Pursue an interlocal agreement with the Utah Transit Authority for the designation
               of Major Transit Investment Corridors.
A 8.3.1 (b):   Seek funding for implementation of the active transportation network in
               Taylorsville.
A 8.3.1 (c):   Participate in regional discussions and planning efforts to ensure connectivity to
               surrounding communities and transit opportunities.
A 8.3.1 (d):   Plan for high density, high quality, mixed use zoning and development along
               Major Transit Investment Corridors.
A 8.3.1 (e):   Allow for parking reductions in future development along Major Transit
               Investment Corridors.
Policies and Best Practices:
P 8.3.1 (a):   Encourage pedestrian scale development along Major Transit Investment Corridors.
P 8.3.1 (b):   Ensure “complete street” development along applicable segments of the Mid-Valley
               Connector Bus Rapid Transit corridor.
P 8.3.1 (c):   Encourage moderate income housing options near planned transportation projects
               as identified on the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP).
8.4 State Requirements
Utah State Code requires that municipalities address moderate income housing in their general
plans. The Utah Legislature adopted HB462 during the 2022 legislative session which updated
previous moderate income housing provisions adopted in 2019. The code stipulates that
municipalities will facilitate a reasonable opportunity for a variety of housing, including
moderate income housing, to:
   Meet the needs of people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to live or work
    in the community, and
   Allow people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of
    neighborhood and community life.
The code also requires that municipal general plans will include recommendations to implement
three or more “moderate income housing strategies” from a menu of items conveyed in the
code [UCA §10-9a-403 (2)(b)(iii)] - see Illustration 8.4.1. The selected strategies (shown in bold in
the illustration) must also establish timelines and benchmarks for each of the chosen
recommendations. In addition, cities with fixed guideway transit systems must include additional
strategies including letter V and G, H, or Q from the list. Although Taylorsville does not currently
have a fixed guideway system, the proposed Mid-Valley Connector Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
system is expected to be complete and operational by 2025. As a result, the Taylorsville General
Plan addresses the higher standard to ensure complete compliance with the State Code at the
time operations begin on the new BRT.

Moderate Income Housing Annual Report
Upon adoption of the Moderate Income Housing Plan by the Taylorsville City Council, the City is
required to submit an annual report to the Housing and Community Development Division of the
Department of Workforce Services. The report must provide a description of each moderate income
housing strategy selected by the community for implementation and an implementation plan.
The report for each calendar year shall include:
1. A description of each action, whether one-time or ongoing, taken by the City during the
    previous fiscal year to implement the selected moderate income housing strategies;
2. A description of each land use regulation or land use decision made by the City during the
    previous fiscal year to implement the moderate income housing strategies, including an
    explanation of how the land use regulation or land use decision supports the City's efforts to
    implement the moderate income housing strategies;
3. A description of any barriers encountered by the City in the previous fiscal year in
    implementing the moderate income housing strategies;
4. Information regarding the number of internal and external or detached accessory dwelling
    units located within the City for which Taylorsville:
        1) Issued a building permit to construct, or
Utah State Code Annotated §13-9a-403 General Plan Preparation (2)(b)(iii) and (iv)
   Municipalities shall include a recommendation to implement three or more of the following moderate income housing strategies:
         (A) rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate income housing;
         (B) demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that facilitates the construction of moderate income housing;
         (C) demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into moderate income housing;
         (D) identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the municipality for
             the construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing;
         (E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling units in residential zones;
         (F) zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial
             centers, or employment centers;
         (G) amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit invest-
             ment corridors;
         (H) amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential development where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own vehicle,
             such as residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities;
         (I)   amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments;
         (J)   implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments;
         (K) preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by utilizing a landlord incentive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant program, or,
             notwithstanding Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund;
         (L)   reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;
         (M) demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for moderate income housing;
         (N) implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality, an employer that provides contracted services to the municipality, or any other public employer that
             operates within the municipality;
         (O) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for pro-
             grams offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department of
             Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by an association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11,
             Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or any other
             entity that applies for programs or services that promote the construction or preservation of moderate income housing;
         (P)   demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a community reinvestment agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal agency
               to create or subsidize moderate income housing;
         (Q) create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act;
         (R) eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal accessory dwelling unit as defined in Section 10-9a-530;
         (S)   create a program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing;
         (T)   ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing;
         (U) develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55 years old or older;
         (V) develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1;
         (W) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and located in
             walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones; and
         (X) demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing needs of residents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income,
             including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development
             in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing; and
   In addition to the recommendations required under Subsection (2)(b)(iii), for a municipality that has a fixed guideway public transit station, shall include a recommendation to implement:
         (A) the strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(V); and
         (B) a strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(G), (H), or (Q).

      Illustration 8.4.1: Moderate Income Housing Strategies from UCA §10-9a-403—General Plan Preparation. Selected strategies shown in bold.
        2) Issued a business license to rent
5.   A description of how the market has responded to the selected moderate income housing
     strategies, including the number of entitled moderate income housing units or other relevant
     data; and
6.   Any recommendations on how the state can support the City in implementing the moderate
     income housing strategies.

Comprehensive Land Development Code (LDC) Rewrite
In 2021 the Taylorsville Community Development Department initiated a comprehensive rewrite of
the Taylorsville Land Development Code (LDC). The LDC is a regulatory document that establishes
procedures and standards that mandate how property is used and developed in the City. The
focus of the project is to update development regulations to align with and implement the desired
built environment described in the Taylorsville General Plan and other adopted policy documents,
respond to challenges associated with high growth and development pressures, and to improve
overall code administration.

LDC Project Goals
The LDC update project is intended to support a thriving, resilient, and forward-thinking
community that will remain locally and nationally competitive. The project will establish an
updated list of zoning districts and land uses, set clear minimum quality standards for new
development, and establish efficient procedures under which proposed development applications
are considered. The project demonstrates the City’s commitment to the future and will play an
integral role in shaping the natural and built environments over the next generation. The LDC
update will be a more effective tool to help Taylorsville realize several important goals, including:
 Implementation of the Taylorsville General Plan;
 Simplification of regulations to use clear, concise and common sense language that reduces
    the need for interpretations;                                                                       Illustration 8.4.2
 Introduction of flexible tools that improve user-friendliness, including new graphics;                Land Development Code Update
 Updating procedures to support a fair, predictable, and efficient development review process;         The Taylorsville Land Development Code update is a
 Modernizing regulations to maintain a high level of quality and private investment;                   comprehensive rewrite of all zoning and development
 Updating the menu of zoning districts to encourage high-quality mixed-use development                 regulations in the City. The project was initiated in 2021
    projects where appropriate that complement existing development contexts;                           with final adoption by the City Council anticipated in mid-
 Integration of best planning and zoning practices and current trends from Utah and around             2024.
    the nation;
 Ensuring legally sound and defensible development regulations that align with state statutes
    and address the creation of non-conforming use and existing property rights; and
 Creation of development regulations that will meet the current and future needs of the City.
LDC Schedule
The Implementation Strategies within Section 8.4 of the General Plan that require ordinance
amendments, such as updated regulations for ADUs, zoning regulations, etc., will be rolled into
the comprehensive LDC update. Consequently, the timing of any proposed changes will coincide
with the adoption of the updated LDC.
Like all amendments to land use ordinances, the state mandated approval process includes
review, public hearing, and formal recommendation by the Taylorsville Planning Commission
with final approval by the Taylorsville City Council. Below is the anticipated review/approval
schedule of the updated LDC:
 Completion of the final draft: 3rd Quarter 2023
 Planning Commission review: 3rd quarter 2023 through 1st quarter 2024
 Planning Commission public hearing and recommendation: 2nd quarter 2024
 City Council adoption: 3rd quarter 2024

Implementation Strategies
Strategy D
One method to reduce development costs and to encourage the construction of new moderate
income dwelling units is to subsidize construction by reducing or eliminating construction
related fees that are otherwise required by the City. Potential fee subsidies include general plan
amendment fees, rezoning fees, conditional use permit fees, subdivision fees, building permit
fees, and plan review fees. Permit fees required by other outside reviewing agencies cannot be
amended by Taylorsville City.
A significant amount of staff time and city resources are required for land use approvals and
building safety provisions, especially on large multi-family housing projects. As a result, special
consideration should be given to the financial impacts of fee waivers on development projects
to ensure the City can maintain adequate staffing and capacity.

Strategy D: Identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally
imposed by the municipality for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate income housing.
                                           Implementation Steps                                                                            Timeline
D1. Conduct a financial feasibility study to better understand the true financial impacts on the Taylorsville    2nd Quarter 2023.
    budget of waiving development related fees.
D2. Present study findings to the Taylorsville City Council for consideration during the fiscal year 2023/2024   2nd Quarter 2023. Annual fiscal year budget discussions.
    budget discussions.
D3. Develop decision making criteria and application process for builders/developers seeking fee waivers for     4th Quarter 2023.
    the construction of moderate income housing units
D4. Develop a staff recommendation and ordinance amendment for consideration by the Taylorsville City            4th Quarter 2023.
    Council.
Strategy E
In 2012, Taylorsville was one of the first communities in the region to legalize internal accessory
dwelling units (ADUs) in single family neighborhoods. Since the adoption of it’s original ADU
ordinances, the city has continually tweaked and modified it’s ADU standards to balance
neighborhood identity with the growth of additional affordable housing units in the City—most
recently in 2021 (Ord. 21-13) to address recent amendments to State Code.
Taylorsville’s Land Development Code currently only permits ADUs internal to the home, largely
based on the form and scale of most neighborhoods in the City. There are, however, some
places within the community where external ADUs, such as casitas or apartments over a
detached garages, may be feasible and appropriate. Permitting external detached ADUs and the
circumstances where they may be suitable should be studied and explored. In order to preserve
neighborhood quality and identity, it is important to ensure that external ADUs are properly
located, scaled and be architecturally compatible with primary residential structures. Haphazard
building design for external buildings will lead to undesirable community aesthetics that could
potentially contribute to neighborhood decline.


Since 2012, and accelerating in the 2020s, dozens of new ADUs have been legally created within
Taylorsville neighborhoods. Many ADUs were also created illegally in the City without building                  Illustration 8.4.3
permits or land use approvals prior to 2012. In addition to developing policies and ordinances                  External ADU constructed over a detached garage.
                                                                                                                When constructed appropriately, detached ADUs can
intended to reduce regulations on new ADU construction, the City should also examine new
                                                                                                                provide affordable housing options in a more private
policies and safety procedures that could legalize the unlawful dwellings to ensure public safety               setting. Special consideration needs to be given, however,
and permit additional legally occupiable ADUs in the community.                                                 to ensure that external buildings are architecturally
                                                                                                                compatible and in scale with the adjacent neighborhood.

Strategy E: Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling units in residential zones.
                                    Implementation Steps                                                                               Timeline
E1. Review current internal ADU standards for potential ordinance amendments to further reduce         2nd Quarter 2023.
    regulations that could inhibit ADU construction.
E2. Develop a unit legalization policy for illegal non-conforming ADUs constructed prior to legalization 2nd Quarter 2023. Incorporate into draft LDC.
    by the city for consideration by the Taylorsville Planning Commission and City Council
E3. Research best practices, policies, and development codes from other cities to determine            2nd Quarter 2023.
    applicability of external ADUs in Taylorsville City.
E4. Develop a recommendation and proposed ordinance amendment for consideration by the                 3rd Quarter 2023 through 1st Quarter 2024. Include with draft LDC.
    Taylorsville Planning Commission regarding development standards for constructing external
    ADUs.
E5. Present Planning Commission recommendations to the City Council for adoption.                      2nd Quarter 2024 through 3rd Quarter 2024.
Strategy F
The land use market in Taylorsville, and across the region and country, is experiencing
substantial changes, primarily in the retail, office, and housing markets. Brick and mortar retail
has been dramatically impacted by on-line sales. The restaurant market, a sub-market of retail,
has been significantly impacted by Covid-19, inflation, work force, and supply chain issues. Office
has been impacted by Covid-19 and the trend towards working from home. And housing,
especially in this region, has been impacted by population growth, housing costs, and the limited
availability of vacant land. Together, these trends will add up to perhaps the most significant
transformation of land use patterns since the decades following World War II and the
suburbanization of metropolitan Salt Lake.
As commercial and office space evolves to meet current and future market trends, and the need
for affordable housing continues to escalate, many traditional shopping centers will attempt to
reinvent themselves as higher intensity, compact, mixed-use districts built in more traditional
urban forms that incorporate multiple land uses including employment, shopping,
entertainment, and housing all within close proximity to each other. The potential benefits of
compact mixed use development are many, including:
• Tax base. Combining retail tax generation with high property values, high density mixed use
    development has proven to be an advantageous type of development for the tax base of
    local governments.
• Reduction of automobile use and dependency. Placing varied land uses in closer proximity to
    each other, especially when located near regional transit systems, can contribute to shorter
    and fewer vehicle trips.
• Environmental sustainability. Attached multi-family dwelling units typically use less energy
    and water per capita than similarly sized detached dwelling units. Also, as mentioned above,
    mixed use development can also reduce automobile use and associated pollution.
• Housing Opportunities. Single use commercial places, such as shopping centers, are often
    strategically located adjacent to regional transportation systems but provide no opportunity
    for residential uses. By creating mixed use centers that include housing, more people are
    given the opportunity to live near popular transit corridors, easy freeway proximity, etc.
• More efficient use of land. By constructing taller, more compact buildings with lower parking
    standards, less land is wasted on non-productive space. This is a critical issue as Salt Lake     Illustration 8.4.4
    County approaches full build-out and available land becomes increasingly scarce.                  Transition of an obsolete shopping center.
• More efficient use of infrastructure. Constructing uses in closer proximity to each other           On May 5, 2021, the Taylorsville City Council approved a
    promotes efficiencies in infrastructure development such as roads, sewer, water lines, etc.       rezone and associated development standards that would
                                                                                                      facilitate the redevelopment of the West Point Shopping
• Physical and mental health. Compact mixed use development encourages a more active
                                                                                                      Center (above) at Bangerter Highway and 5400 South into a
    lifestyle by making places more walkable and pedestrian friendly. Numerous studies indicate       new mixed use community known as Volta. The new
    that active lifestyles not only lead to improved physical health, but mental health as well.      development will feature high-quality design and
In 2019, Taylorsville embarked on an internal study of eight commercial districts within the City     Taylorsville’s highest residential density (647 units at
                                                                                                      approximately 40 units/acre).
(Taylorsville Commercial Centers Revitalization Master Plan by MHTN Architects and Taylorsville
Commercial Center Master Planning + Revitalization Study by KGRW and BCT Architects) to help
understand how these places may evolve in the coming years to not only address housing
shortages, but also improve the quality of life and tax base of the community. The findings of
the studies generally indicated that the shopping centers and commercial districts—mostly
constructed in the 1970s through early 1990s—largely didn’t conform to current and projected
shopping trends and had potential to redevelop, under certain circumstances, into high quality
mixed use centers. In May 2021, the Taylorsville City Council approved a rezone and “site-
specific” development ordinance for one of the study areas permitting the redevelopment of the
West Point Shopping Center located at the southwest corner of Bangerter Highway and 5400
South. The new development, known as “Volta”, will be a 16.5 acre high density mixed use
development comprised of five individual multi-level buildings. As approved, Volta will include
647 new dwelling units at 39.2 units per acre with potential to increase to 55 units per acre.
Phase one of the project is expected to begin construction in spring 2023 [see illustration 8.4.4].
The West Point Shopping Center, constructed in the 1980s, had once been one of the premier
regional shopping areas in the City. However, over the last 10+ years the center declined into a
mostly vacant eyesore that provided little benefit to the community. Although the primary land
use will change from commercial to mostly high density residential, the redeveloped property
will provide more benefit to the City’s tax base, aesthetic quality, and opportunities to live in a
vibrant high quality environment

Strategy F: Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed use zones near major transit
investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers.
                                       Implementation Steps                                                                              Timeline
F1. Complete station area master plans per State requirements for the Fore Lakes, Atherton, and Riverboat   4th Quarter 2023. Study to include detailed analysis of
    Road BRT stations on Taylorsville Expressway (4700 South). See Strategy V page 8-24.                    redevelopment potential and constraints.
F2. Seek funding for additional station area master plan for the 4700 South/2700 West Station based on      1st Quarter 2023.
    redevelopment potential for the vicinity.
F3. Discuss redevelopment potential with property owners in the following major commercial nodes:           4th Quarter 2024 and Ongoing.
      4100 Redwood Road                                                                                         Volta mixed use development project on the site of the
                                                                                                                    former West Point Shopping Center scheduled to begin
      4800 South Redwood Road                                                                                      construction spring 2023. Approved for 647 dwelling units.
      5400 South Bangerter Highway                                                                              Two additional mixed-use heigh density projects in
      4700 South/2700 West                                                                                         discussion phase on 4700 South adjacent to the Mid-valley
      BRT Station Area Plan Study Area.                                                                            Connector Corridor.
                                                                                                                 Preliminary discussions for a new high density multi-family
                                                                                                                    project near 5400 South Redwood Road.
F4. Update Land Development Code to facilitate approved redevelopment plans.                                As Necessary/Ongoing.
F5. Review/evaluate redevelopment proposals as they are submitted.                                          Ongoing.
Implementation Strategies for Communities with a Fixed Guideway System
The proposed Mid-Valley Connector Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system is estimated to begin                              West Valley
                                                                                                                   Central Station
operations in 2025. A majority of the corridor, which runs from the Murray Central TRAX/                                                                                    Mixed Flow Lanes

FrontRunner Station to the West Valley TRAX Central Station, will operate within existing                                                                                   Dedicated Bus Lanes
                                                                                                                                                                            Stations
automotive travel lanes. A segment of the corridor east of Redwood Road on 4700 South
(Taylorsville Expressway) however, will operate in lanes dedicated solely to the BRT vehicles (see                                   4100 South
Illustration 8.4.5). As a result, this segment of the system is considered “fixed guideway” and
subject to the provisions UCA 10-9a-403 (2)(b)(iv) which requires the inclusion of                                                    Salt Lake
recommendations for a minimum of two additional moderate income strategies from the menu of                                          Community
                                                                                                                                       College
items in State Code. The additional recommendations must include strategy V, and G, H, and/or Q




                                                                                                                                                                                 Interstate 15
from the list identified in Illustration 8.4.1.




                                                                                                                       2700 West




                                                                                                                                                  Redwood Road
The Taylorsville General Plan recommends pursuing an analysis of Strategies G, H, and V,
discussed in more detail below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Murray Central
Strategy G                                                                                                                                                                                          Station

Zoning and development ordinances are the primary land use implementation tools available to
local governments. Zoning generally addresses underlying land use and intensity while
                                                                                                                  Illustration 8.4.5
development ordinances provide standards for new construction. When used together, these two
                                                                                                                  Mid-Valley Bus Rapid Transit Corridor.
implementation tools can provide for the highest and best use of property while maintaining                       Approximately one mile of the seven mile Mid-Valley BRT
community standards and creating the built environment envisioned in the Taylorsville General                     corridor will be in dedicated right-of-way (fixed guideway).
Plan. Great care must be utilized by community decision makers regarding zoning determinations
to not only provide an appropriate mix of land uses, but also to assure orderly growth, a stable tax
base, and respect for local community character.

Strategy G: Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed use
zones near major transit investment corridors.

                                      Implementation Steps                                                                                                       Timeline
G1. Identify in Chapter Three - Land Use of the Taylorsville General Plan, areas of the BRT transit       3rd Quarter 2023. With adoption of the Taylorsville General Plan update.
     corridor with redevelopment potential for high density transit oriented development and
     moderate income housing.
G2. Further study areas with redevelopment potential for high density transit oriented development        4th Quarter 2023.
     and moderate income housing in the Station Area Master Plans as required in Strategy V.

G3. Develop master plan implementation measures including decision making criteria for zoning             1st Quarter 2024.
    amendment applications.
G4. Amend zoning on a individual basis based on requests from private sector developers.                  Ongoing. Continual based on incoming applications.
G5. Create site-specific zoning standards that permit density levels appropriate for specific sites and   Ongoing. As development proposals are submitted.
    development proposals.
Strategy H
Although the automobile remains the dominant form of transportation in Taylorsville and the
larger Salt Lake metropolitan region, there is good reason to consider policies that move our
communities towards more multi-modal and pedestrian friendly places.
The impacts of automotive orientation are well documented (accidents; costs to taxpayers for new
roads, road maintenance, and traffic safety; insurance; pollution; fuel costs; etc.), but perhaps less
appreciated is the sheer amount of land that is dedicated to the automobile in the United States.
According to Strongtowns.org, surface parking lots cover more than 5% of all urban land in the
United States, which is an area larger than the states of Rhode Island and Delaware combined. In
Los Angeles, there is more land dedicated to parking than housing. It is estimated that there are as
many as two billion parking stalls in the United States for the 291 million registered vehicles. Not
only does the over abundance of parking diminish the fabric and connectivity of our cities, it also
wastes precious land (especially in landlocked places like Salt Lake County). The lack of available
land in Salt Lake County has contributed significantly to the regions housing and affordability
crisis, and will continue to do so into the future as available land becomes less and less available.
By dedicating less land area to surface parking, developers are able to increase overall densities              Illustration 8.4.6
within the same development footprint while reducing costs. Utilizing less land for parking can                 Volta Mixed-use Community.
also allow the development of other positive site features such as landscaping, community                       The Volta mixed-use community, scheduled to begin
                                                                                                                construction in the spring of 2023, utilized a reduced parking
gathering places, and other amenities.
                                                                                                                requirement of 1.5 stalls/unit to enable other desirable
                                                                                                                development features such as increased residential density,
                                                                                                                outdoor amenities, plazas, and other community gathering
                                                                                                                spaces.

Strategy H: Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential development where a resident is less likely to rely
on the resident’s own vehicle, such as residential development near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities.

                                     Implementation Steps                                                                               Timeline
H1. Research best practices for parking standards in high density multi-family housing projects within   3rd Quarter 2023.
    1/4 mile and 1/2 mile of a public transit corridor, and senior living facilities.
H2. Develop an amendment to the Taylorsville Land Development Code concerning parking                   4th Quarter 2024. Incorporate into draft LDC.
    requirements in transit oriented development projects, and multi-family residential, mixed use, and
    senior housing zones.
H3. Present recommendations to the Taylorsville Planning Commission for consideration and                1st Quarter 2024. Include with draft LDC.
    recommendation to the Taylorsville City Council.
H4. Present Planning Commission recommendations to the City Council for adoption.                        3rd Quarter 2024.
Strategy V                                                                                                                                                 BRT route
UCA §10-9a-403.1 requires that any municipality with a “fixed guideway” bus rapid transit                                                                  Stations

system constructed after June 1, 2022 complete a station area master plan adopted by the city                                                              Parcels within

council and certified by Wasatch Front Regional Council prior to the commencement of                                                                       0.25 miles


operations of the new system. The station area master plan must provide a vision and the
actions necessary to implement that vision for all parcels within 1/4 mile of any station within
the fixed guideway corridor. State Code further stipulates that the station area plan must
promote the following objectives:
    1.   Increase the availability and affordability of housing, including moderate income
         housing,
    2.   Promote sustainable environmental conditions,
    3.   Enhance access to opportunities, and
    4.   Increase transportation choices and connections.
The station area plan must also include implementation measures that identify and describe            Illustration 8.4.7
actions necessary over the next five years to carry out the plan.                                     Station Area Plan Study Area.
                                                                                                      Three stations on the Mid-Valley Bus Rapid Transit corridor
Following a public hearing and formal recommendation by the Planning Commission and                   are located on fixed guideway:
adoption of the plan by the City Council, the city must submit the completed plan to the                 1. 1300 West Station. 1300 West 4700 South
Wasatch Front Regional Council, with consultation by the Utah Transit Authority, for certification       2. Atherton West Station. 1100 West 4530 South
that the plan satisfies the requirements of State law.                                                   3. River Boat Road Station. 850 West 4430 South
                                                                                                      The area in blue represents all parcels within 1/4 mile of the
Mid-Valley Connector Bus Rapid Transit                                                                future stations. The three areas overlap to form one larger
The Mid-Valley Connector BRT is a seven-mile 15-station transit system that will operate              study area.
between the Murray Central Station and West Valley Central Station (Illustration 8.4.5) with
connections to regional TRAX and FrontRunner transit service. The project is currently in the final
stages of design with construction expected to commence in 2023 and operations beginning in
2025. The majority of the seven mile route will be on existing surface streets. On the heavily
traveled Taylorsville Expressway the system will feature center running exclusive lanes and
stations. This segment of the corridor meets the standards in State Code for “fixed guideway”
and the three stations within this area will require the development of a station area plan as
discussed above. The three stations include the 1300 West Station adjacent to the Fore Lakes
Golf Course, Atherton West Station east of the intersection of Taylorsville Expressway and West
Atherton Drive, and Riverboat Station adjacent to the main entrance of Sorensen Research Park.
The area that includes all parcels within 1/4 mile of the three stations is shown in Illustration
8.4.7. The three areas overlap creating an overall study area of approximately 633 acres and
incorporates several significant Taylorsville locations including the Fore Lakes Golf Course,
Sorensen Research Park, Meadowbrook Golf Course, and the Monte Vista, Majestic Oaks, and
Majestic Meadows mobile home communities.
Strategy V: Develop and adopt a station plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1.
                                    Implementation Steps                                                                    Timeline
V1. Determine Study Area                                                                      4th Quarter 2022. Step Complete.

V2. Develop scope of services                                                                 4th Quarter 2022. Scope of services developed October and November
                                                                                              2022. Step Complete.

V3. Seek project funding                                                                      2nd Quarter 2022 Through 2nd Quarter 2023.
                                                                                               •   $160,000 funding approved by the Taylorsville City Council for fiscal
                                                                                                   year 2023/24
                                                                                               •   Seeking funding from UTA and WFRC

V4. Consultant services procurement; contract development                                     2nd Quarter 2023.


V5. Plan Development                                                                          2nd Quarter 2023 Through 2nd Quarter 2024.


V6. Stakeholder involvement                                                                   2nd Quarter 2023 Through 4th Quarter 2023.


V7. Public open house                                                                         4th Quarter 2023.


V8. Planning Commission public hearing and recommendation to the Taylorsville City Council.   3rd Quarter 2024.


V9.. Final plan adjustments based on Planning Commission recommendation and public comment.   3rd Quarter 2024.


V10. Final approval by Taylorsville City Council                                              4th Quarter 2024.


V11. Certification by Wasatch Front Regional Council                                          1st Quarter 2025.


V12. Implement Plan                                                                           1st Quarter 2025 and Ongoing.


V13. Station Area Plan Updates                                                                As Necessary.
City of Taylorsville
2019 Moderate-Income Housing Study
SECTION I.
Summary
In 2018, the City of Taylorsville commissioned this study to examine the housing needs of
current and future residents—and to develop strategies to address those needs. In 2019 the
Utah State Legislature passed SB 34 Affordable Housing Modifications which provides statutory
framework for municipalities on how to address and report on moderate-income housing needs.

The primary objective of this plan is to provide information on the existing housing stock and
set-forth goals, objectives, actions and policies that provide the City with the framework to
address the moderate-income housing needs of Taylorsville residents. This plan addresses the
need to preserve the existing character of neighborhoods, while also looking at future land use
transitions and infrastructure development to reduce the housing cost burden of Taylorsville
residents.

What is a Moderate-income Housing Study?
In recent efforts to help communities better prepare for the future, the State of Utah revised its
moderate-income housing element and associated reporting statutes for all cities. The statute
requires cities to include a moderate-income housing element in their general plans which
examines existing housing stock, an estimate for the need for moderate-income housing in the
municipality for the next five years, a survey of residential land use, an evaluation of how land
uses and zones affect opportunities for moderate-income housing, and a description of the
municipality’s program to encourage an adequate supply of moderate-income housing.

Defining moderate-income. The Utah Code on the Moderate-income Housing Report defines
moderate-income housing as housing occupied for households with an income equal to or less
than 80 percent of the Area Median Income (AMI).

For Salt Lake County, the geography used for income limits in Taylorsville, the median income is
$73,800. Figure ES-1 shows the highest possible income of households earning 80 percent of the
AMI or below. Meaning that a one-person household that earns below $41,350 falls within the
80% AMI threshold. While a three-person household earning $53,150 or less falls within the
80% AMI threshold.

Figure ES-1.
The Moderate-income Market, Salt Lake County, 2016

  MODERATE-INCOME MARKET
           1-person                               3-person
           households                             households
           earning                                earning
           up to $41,350                          up to $53,150
Source: HUD FY 2016 Income Limits.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                           SECTION I, PAGE 1
What Happens When Moderate-income Residents Can’t Afford Housing?
Jobs, family income, transportation costs, and housing are all intricately connected. As discussed
in Section II of this study, the primary jobs available in Taylorsville are in industries which pay
low to moderate wages—public services, educational services, and retail trade. Together, these
industries comprise 42 percent of the jobs that are occupied by people who work in Taylorsville
(see Figure II-17). Providing opportunities for these workers to live in the city in which they
work would have a positive effect on in-commuting and reducing transportation costs.

Lack of moderate-income and other housing types can also lead to a shift in certain household
types, which can be detrimental to maintaining schools and area businesses. Families are the
backbone of Taylorsville and are motivated to live in more affordable communities to help
manage the costs of raising children and to ensure a quality of life they desire. Likewise, families
are strong drivers of local economies. Families are key patrons of area businesses and services
and are the most likely to devote their resources into improving communities (volunteering with
nonprofits, serving on community boards, taking positions of leadership in churches, etc.).

New research has shown that stable families, communities and housing have positive effects on
the economic vitality and mobility of children, particularly lower income children. Research has
found that the Salt Lake Valley overall has been successful in offering economic stability and
opportunity to families of all incomes.

Taylorsville’s Commitment to Diverse Housing
The City of Taylorsville desires to maintain a variety of quality housing that will serve its diverse
population. A variety of housing types is also necessary to accommodate people working in the
City. Young families, single persons, students, seniors, and empty-nesters have different housing
needs and so different housing choices should exist to provide for those needs.

Taylorsville is an established suburban and bedroom community. As cities like Taylorsville
mature, their housing needs change. One outcome of a housing study is to support natural
lifecycles and housing choice changes and to help families and retain their opportunity to live in
a community. For example, as families form and age, they add stability to the neighborhood if
residents are able to move to different housing units but stay in the same neighborhood. Ideally,
a community can offer a range of housing choices to accommodate all housing needs.

This plan builds goals, objectives and action items in the General Plan that are directly related to
the changing demographics and land use transitions in the City. It offers strategic
implementable responses to housing needs, land use transitions, and transportation
infrastructure needs that will occur due to the changing demographics and needs in the City.

Primary Findings of Study
The centrally located suburb of Taylorsville is home to over 60,000 people. Taylorsville
comprises about 6 percent of Salt Lake County’s population. Much of the growth and
development in Salt Lake County over the three decades has occurred in the southeast suburbs
of Draper and Sandy, and now for the foreseeable future, in the southwest quadrant including
South Jordan, West Jordan and Riverton areas. Taylorsville’s compact 10 square miles is mostly
built-out which limits the City’s growth potential. This lack of developable land has helped to

BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                            SECTION I, PAGE 2
maintain Taylorsville size and small-town feel—yet limits the City’s opportunity to respond to
housing and employment needs.
Key Findings:
    •   Taylorsville residents are predominately young adults and Generation Xers, which are
        individuals ranging in age from 40 to 60 years old. Young adults, as well as seniors, are
        projected to grow the fastest over the next 40 years. Almost three-quarters of
        households consist of families, slightly down from 2000. This is comparable to many
        other communities in the Salt Lake Valley.
    •   The local economy in Taylorsville and the larger Salt Lake Valley job market are
        relatively stable, with unemployment rates hovering around 3 percent for several years.
    •   The median household income in 2016 was $57,826, a 23 percent increase since 1999.
        Taylorsville saw a loss in low income renters and owners during the same period, either
        because households experienced an increased income or moved away (or, as common in
        other markets, are “doubling up” or living at home).
    •   The rental market in Taylorsville is largely priced to serve renters earning between
        $25,000 and $50,000 per year. Seventy-six percent of the City’s rental units fall within
        this price range. However, housing supply is inadequate to meet the needs of lower
        income renters, earning less than $25,000 per year. Publicly subsidized housing
        provides support for renters earning less than $25,000 per year as federal and other
        resources for subsidized housing have declined.
    •   Overall, Taylorsville’s rental need is moderate—with a gap of almost 1,300 rental units
        at the very lowest rent ranges. The 2016 low income rental gap is slightly larger than in
        2010, when it was about 1,200 households. The biggest shift in the rental gap occurred
        for households earning between $15,000 and $25,000, who find fewer affordable rentals
        available.
    •   Taylorsville’s home prices are affordable compared to many surrounding communities.
        Yet the City still has a homeownership gap: renters who want to buy will have trouble
        finding an affordable home until they earn more than $50,000—the income at which
        homes to buy begin to become affordable. During 2016 and 2018, there were only 6
        affordable homes to buy for every 100 renters earning less than $50,000 and 20 homes
        for every 100 renters earning between $50,000 and $75,000.
    •   Within Taylorsville, housing supply is very limited, and the for-sale market does not
        accommodate the wages of the average worker in the City. The average Taylorsville
        worker—earning $30,988 per year—can only afford 26 percent of rental units and only
        4 percent of the homes for sale in Taylorsville in 2016.
Compared to surrounding communities, Taylorsville’s housing market is unique due to:

   Relative affordability. Taylorsville continues to offer lower rents and more affordable
    homes to buy. This is partially related to the age of the City’s housing stock: more than half
    of the City’s homes were built prior to 1980 and, as such, may not have the amenities that
    are common in newer housing.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                           SECTION I, PAGE 3
    Lack of multifamily development. Only a small number of multifamily housing has been
     built since the 2009 recession. Overall, development has slowed in Taylorsville due
     primarily to a lack of developable land. Most of this development has been for single family
     homes.

    Large unit rentals. Compared to most nearby cities, Taylorsville has a large proportion (68
     percent) of three-bedroom, four-bedroom, and five-bedroom and larger units.

    Mobile home products. Five percent, or 985 units, of Taylorsville housing stock is made up
     of mobile homes. This type of housing does not provide the same type of long-term stability
     or equity as other for-sale homes.

     Residents in mobile homes are very vulnerable to displacement if park owners choose to
     sell their parks for redevelopment. These sales further reduce the supply of lots for mobile
     homes and create more challenges for residents who need to relocate.

Recommended Solutions
Section IV of the Moderate-Income Housing Plan provides a thorough analysis of goals, actions
and policy considerations to address moderate-income housing needs in the City. The City will
likely experience significant demographic and land use transitions that will affect housing needs
including:

    •   The City will have a larger number of seniors with the aging of its largest age cohort—
        residents between the age of 35 and 54 years. Taylorsville will need to plan for adequate
        housing stock to meet the needs of aging residents.

    •   New families and workers will continue to be attracted Taylorsville for its relative
        affordability and proximity to many work centers in the Salt Lake Valley. This will
        continue to put pressure on the demand for housing - particularly home ownership. The
        City can encourage adding units through infill and redevelopment of underutilized and
        vacant parcels.

    •   Mobile home parks will face pressure to redevelop. The City should develop policies to
        have Taylorsville specific relocation plans and a housing product that serves these
        residents.

    •   Increase in cost of living and transportation costs will continue to burden Taylorsville
        residents and will be a critical component that impacts monthly incomes. The City will
        need to continue to look for ways to further bridge the gap between employment and
        transportation as a means to offset the burden of housing costs.

Organization of Report
This plan and report are made up of the following sections:

    Section I: Introduction.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                          SECTION I, PAGE 4
   Section II. Community Profile. This section provides information on population growth,
    household characteristics, income and poverty, and employment.

   Section III. Housing Profile. This section provides information on Taylorsville’s existing
    housing stock in terms of tenure (renter/owner), cost and affordability, and condition.

   Section IV. Moderate-Income Housing Element. This section discusses the City’s current
    housing programs and contains goals, actions, and policy recommendations for addressing
    moderate-income housing needs.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                          SECTION I, PAGE 5
SECTION II.
Community Profile
This section provides a general overview of the City of Taylorsville’s demographic and economic
environment to set the context for the housing market analysis. It focuses on the types of
households who reside in Taylorsville, now and in the future, and how demographic changes and
employment growth could influence housing demand.

Population Levels and Trends
Taylorsville is a moderately sized, centrally located city in the Salt Lake Valley and is one of
Utah’s newer cities—incorporated just over 20 years ago. The city was mostly established in the
early 1960’s and 1970’s as part of the unincorporated Salt Lake County. In the mid-1990s,
motivated by the desire to retain a smaller, community-oriented city, within the quickly growing
western part of Salt Lake County the City incorporated. This was a period of high growth for
much of the Western U.S., with much of that growth occurring in newly developed suburbs.
Taylorsville was established as, and continues to be, a moderate-income, family-oriented,
community that is home to workers commuting primarily to other communities.

Population. Taylorsville is home to over 60,000 people, about 6 percent of Salt Lake County’s
population. Between 2000 and 2010, the population of Taylorsville increased from 57,500 to
58,700 —a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 0.2 percent. Population growth was faster
between 2010 and 2016 with a CAGR of 0.5 percent.

Figure II-1 shows population trends for Taylorsville and nearby communities.

Figure II-1.
Population Trends, Taylorsville, Nearby Communities, and Salt Lake County, 2000, 2010, and 2016

                                                  Total Population                           Total Growth              Annual Growth Rate
                                    2000               2010                2016               2000-2016             2000-2010       2010-2016

  Draper                             25,220              42,274              46,399                21,179               5.3%            1.9%
  Murray                             34,024              46,746 *            48,834                14,810               3.2% *          0.9%
  Salt Lake City                   181,743             186,440             191,446                  9,703               0.3%            0.5%
  Sandy                              88,418              87,461              93,141                 4,723               -0.1%           1.3%
  South Jordan                       29,437              50,418              62,751                33,314               5.5%            4.5%
  Taylorsville                       57,439             58,652              60,448                  3,009               0.2%            0.6%
  West Jordan                        68,336            103,712 *           110,928                 42,592               4.3% *          1.4%
  West Valley City                 108,896             129,480             134,609                 25,713               1.7%            0.8%
  Salt Lake County                 898,387           1,029,655           1,092,518               194,131                1.4%            1.2%



Note:    *In the mid-2000's, Murray annexed a portion of unincorporated Salt Lake County, increasing the population by 17,000. In 2000, Oquirrh
         Shadows was annexed by West Jordan, increasing the population by 11,000+.
         2016 ACS 1-year estimates are not available for smaller communities; therefore, 5-year estimates were used instead.
Source: 2000 and 2010 U.S. Census, 2016 ACS 5-year estimates, and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                      SECTION II, PAGE 6
Population by age. As shown in Figure II-2, Taylorsville residents are predominately between
the ages of 25 and 54 years old. Compared to 2010, there are marginal differences in the age
distribution of residents, with a small loss in children and college-aged adults. Overall,
Taylorsville’s population is aging—21 percent of all residents are over the age of 55 (compared
to only 13 percent in 2000).

Figure II-2.
Age, Taylorsville, 2000, 2010, and 2016

                                                                                                      2010-2016  2010-2016
                                 2000                      2010                          2016         Numerical Percentage
                             Number Percent            Number Percent                Number Percent    Change   Point Change

   Under 5 years               4,806        8%            5,068        9%              5,259    9%       191          0%
   5 to 17 years              12,801       22%           11,004       19%             11,002   18%        -2         -1%
   18 to 24 years              8,429       15%            6,599       11%              5,682    9%      -917         -2%
   25 to 34 years              8,596       15%            9,914       17%             10,881   18%       967          1%
   35 to 54 years             15,289       27%           14,238       24%             14,628   24%       390          0%
   55 to 64 years              3,894        7%            6,510       11%              6,770   11%       260          0%
   65 years and over           3,624        6%            5,319        9%              6,226   10%       907          1%

Source: 2000 and 2010 U.S. Census, 2016 5-year ACS, and BBC Research & Consulting.


Figure II-3 shows the distribution of age cohorts for Taylorsville and peer communities.

Millcreek and Murray have a smaller proportion of school-aged children and a larger proportion
of older adults and seniors. In contrast, West Jordan and West Valley have a larger share of
children (one quarter of their population is between the age of 5 to 17 years old) and a smaller
proportion of seniors.

Figure II-3.
Age Comparison,
Taylorsville and Peer
Communities, 2016


Source:
2016 5-year ACS, and BBC
Research & Consulting.




Population projections. According to the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute, the State of Utah’s
population growth is expected to outpace national rates, with the state adding almost 3 million
residents by 2050. Salt Lake County will likely gain a large portion of this growth and is
projected to remain the most populous county in the state. The County will add almost 600,000
new residents, representing 21 percent of the state’s growth, by 2065. Taylorsville is expected to
share a relatively small proportion of this growth due to developable land.


BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                      SECTION II, PAGE 7
Figure II-4 examines population projections for Salt Lake County through 2060 (growth
forecasts are completed at the county level and, as such, are not available for Taylorsville alone).
Most age cohorts are projected to have modest growth over the next 40 years. The largest
growth will occur for young adults, aged 0 to 17, 45-64 and, aged 65 and older.

Figure II-4.
Population Forecasts, Salt Lake County, 2010 through 2060




Source:   Governor's Office of Planning and Budget and BBC Research & Consulting.



Household Diversity
Household composition. Figure II-5 displays the City’s 2016 household composition. Like
other communities in the Salt Lake Valley, Taylorsville is largely comprised of family households
(72%), particularly married-couple households. The remaining families are single head of
households, with almost 2,000 single parents (predominately single mothers).




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                           SECTION II, PAGE 8
Figure II-5.
Household Composition, Taylorsville, 2016




Source: 2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Figure II-6 shows household composition trends for Taylorsville since 2000. Although household
composition has only changed slightly over the last 16 years, there has been an increase in
nonfamily households. The largest household loss during this period was married-couple
families with children, which dropped by about 1,500 households and 10 percentage points.

Figure II-6.                                                                          2000              2016
Household
Composition                                                                      Number   Percent   Number   Percent
Trends, Taylorsville,
                                     Total households                            18,513      100%   19,697     100%
2000 and 2016
                                     Family households                           14,378      78%    14,257     72%
Source:
                                        Married-couple family with children       6,236      34%     4,725     24%
2000 U.S. Census, 2016 5-year
ACS, and BBC Research &
                                        Single head of household with children    1,808      10%     1,814      9%
Consulting.
                                     Nonfamily households                         4,135      22%     5,440     28%




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                            SECTION II, PAGE 9
Taylorsville has a smaller proportion of family households than West Jordan and West Valley, but a larger proportion than Millcreek and Murray.
As shown in Figure II-7, these family households look slightly different in each community. A majority of households in West Jordan and West
Valley are married couples with children, compared to Murray which only has a small share (16%) of these households.

Figure II-7.
Household Composition Trends Comparison, Taylorsville and Peer Communities, 2016

                                                            Millcreek            Murray            Taylorsville         West Jordan          West Valley
                                                         Number    Percent   Number   Percent   Number     Percent   Number     Percent   Number    Percent

   Total Households                                       23,716    100%      18,736    100%     19,697     100%      32,225     100%      36,346     100%

   Family households                                      14,379      61%     12,044     64%     14,257      72%      25,719      80%      29,228       80%
     Married-couple family with children                  11,159      47%      3,054     16%      4,725      24%      19,840      62%      20,612       57%
     Single head of household with children                3,220      14%      1,706      9%      1,814       9%       5,879      18%       8,616       24%

   Nonfamily households                                    9,337      39%      6,692     36%      5,440      28%       6,506      20%       5,331       15%

Source: 2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Disability. In 2016, approximately 6,500 Taylorsville residents, or 11 percent, had at least one type of disability. Thirty seven percent of
Taylorsville residents age 65 and older had a disability and residents between the ages of 18 to 64 years comprise more than half all of persons
with disabilities. As Taylorsville’s population ages, it is likely that the City will need to serve a larger number of disabled elderly residents. Figure
II-8 displays the disability characteristics by age group for Taylorsville.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                                     SECTION II, PAGE 10
Figure II-8.
                                                                                                    Number of      Percent of
Persons with Disabilities and
                                                                                                    Residents      Residents
Types, Taylorsville, 2016
                                                            Total Residents with a Disability         6,542           11%
Source:                                                     Residents 5 years and younger                 7            0%
2016 ACS 5-year estimates and BBC Research &
Consulting.                                                 Residents 5 to 17 years                     684
                                                              Hearing                                   121            1%
                                                              Vision                                     99            1%
                                                              Cognitive                                 618            6%
                                                              Ambulatory                                 57            1%
                                                              Self-care                                 116            1%

                                                            Population 18 to 64 years                 3,574
                                                              Hearing                                   764            2%
                                                              Vision                                    741            2%
                                                              Cognitive                               1,421            4%
                                                              Ambulatory                              1,635            4%
                                                              Self-care                                 368            1%
                                                              Independent living                      1,253            3%

                                                            Population 65 years and over              2,277
                                                              Hearing                                   969           16%
                                                              Vision                                    321            5%
                                                              Cognitive                                 487            8%
                                                              Ambulatory                              1,385           22%
                                                              Self-care                                 375            6%
                                                              Independent living                        896           14%


Figure II-9 compares the age distribution of persons with disabilities in Taylorsville and peer
communities. Millcreek and Murray have a larger proportion of residents with at least one
disability than nearby communities.

Figure II-9.
                                                                                                              West     West
Percent of Persons
                                                                             Millcreek   Murray Taylorsville Jordan    Valley
with Disabilities,
Taylorsville and Peer                    Total residents with a disability     13%        12%       11%          8%       9%
Communities, 2016
                                           Residents 5 years and younger        4%         1%        0%          0%       1%
Source:                                    Residents 5 to 17 years              5%         6%        6%          5%       5%
2016 ACS 5-year estimates and BBC          Population 18 to 64 years            9%         9%        9%          7%       9%
Research & Consulting.
                                           Population 65 years and over        38%        37%       37%         38%      34%


Race and ethnicity. According to the American Community Survey, almost 80 percent of
Taylorsville residents identified themselves as White in 2016. The remaining 20 percent of
Taylorsville’s population is roughly split between Asian (5%), two or more races (3%), Black
(2%), and Pacific Islander (2%). Figure II-10 compares the race and ethnicity of Taylorsville in
2000, 2010, and 2016.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                     SECTION II, PAGE 11
Figure II-10.
Race and Ethnicity, Taylorsville, 2000, 2010, and 2016

                                                             2000                     2010                    2016         2000-2016
                                                         Number Percent           Number Percent          Number Percent Percent Change

 Total population                                          57,439                  58,652                   60,448                      5%

 Race
 American Indian and Alaska Native                            589        1%           564        1%            406       1%            -31%
 Asian                                                      1,745        3%         2,285        4%          2,724       5%             56%
 Black or African American                                    508        1%         1,104        2%          1,356       2%            167%
 Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander                   904        2%         1,285        2%            915       2%              1%
 White                                                     49,139       86%        45,889       78%         47,440      78%             -3%
 Two or more races                                          1,467        3%         1,999        3%          2,067       3%             41%

 Ethnicity
 Hispanic or Latino                                         7,022       12%        10,931       19%         12,756      21%              82%
 Non-Hispanic White                                        44,099       77%        41,540       71%         41,017      68%              -7%

Note:     Ethnicity in the 2000 U.S. Census was not broken out by race, therefore Non-Hispanic White totals for 2000 are estimated based on other
          available census data.
Source: 2000 & 2010 Census, 2016 ACS 5-year estimates, and BBC Research & Consulting.


Since 2000, the number of Hispanic and Latino residents in Taylorsville increased by 82 percent.
Figure II-11 shows the racial and ethnic makeup of Taylorsville compared to peer communities.
Both Millcreek and Murray are mostly comprised of residents who identify as White and have a
very small proportion of Hispanic and Latino residents. Residents who are Black or African
American shows a 167% increase in Figure II-11, which is in increase of 848 persons from 2000-
2016, while white persons have decreased by 1,699 residents.

Figure II-11.
                                                                                                                    West                   West
Race and
                                                                                     Millcreek Murray Taylorsville Jordan                  Valley
Ethnicity,
Taylorsville and                   Race
Peer
                                   American Indian and Alaska Native                      1%           1%           1%            1%         1%
Communities,
2016                               Asian                                                  4%           2%           5%            3%         5%
                                   Black or African American                              2%           2%           2%            1%         2%
Source:                            Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander             1%           1%           2%            2%         4%
2016 ACS 5-year                    White                                                 89%          89%          79%           86%        61%
estimates and BBC
Research & Consulting.             Two or more races                                      2%           3%           3%            3%         4%
                                   Ethnicity
                                   Hispanic or Latino                                     7%           5%          21%           18%        38%
                                   Non-Hispanic White                                    83%          88%          68%           74%        48%



Economic Health
This section discusses key components of the city's economy, which affect the demand for and
price of housing.

Income. Taylorsville has experienced modest economic growth over the last decade, but
incomes have remained somewhat low compared to neighboring communities. The median



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                    SECTION II, PAGE 12
household income in Taylorsville was $57,826 in 2016—lower than the county ($64,601) and
the state overall ($62,518).

Figure II-12 displays median household income of both renters and owners in Taylorsville for
1999, 2007, 2010, and 2016. The median income increased by 23 percent between 1999 and
2016—from $47,012 to $57,826. Much of that increase occurred prior to the recession.

Owner households in Taylorsville benefitted the most from the increase in income during this
period—a 28 percent increase (from $54,174 to $69,328) compared to just a 13 percent increase
for renters (from $33,438 to $37,798).

Figure II-12.
Median Household Income                                                               All Households           Owners         Renters
by Tenure, Taylorsville, 1999,
                                                  Median Household Income
2007, 2010, and 2016
                                                   1999                                     $47,012            $54,174         $33,438
                                                   2007                                     $53,573            $60,188         $35,631
Source:
                                                   2010                                     $57,337            $64,573         $34,556
2000 Census, ACS 3-year estimates, 2010 &
                                                   2016                                     $57,826            $69,328         $37,798
2016 ACS 5-year estimates, and BBC
Research & Consulting.
                                                  Percent Change in Median Household Income
                                                    1999 to 2007                 14%                            11%              7%
                                                    2007 to 2010                   7%                            7%             -3%
                                                    2010 to 2016                   1%                            7%              9%
                                                    Total change 1999-2016       23%                            28%             13%


As shown in Figure II-13, the change in household incomes has resulted in more high income
homeowners and renters. The loss in low to moderate-income households is a factor of
increased incomes or low-income households moving away.

Figure II-13.
Income Shifts by Tenure, Taylorsville, 2000 and 2016

                                                                                                                           2000-2016
                                          2000                         2016                      2000-2016              Percentage Point
                                     Number   Percent             Number   Percent            Numerical Change              Change

  Total                               18,578                       19,697                             1,119                    6%
  Owners
   Less than $25,000                   1,563         12%             1,586            12%                 23                   0%
   $25,000 - $50,000                   4,308         33%             2,808            21%             -1,500                 -12%
   $50,000 - $75,000                   3,830         29%             3,057            23%               -773                  -6%
   $75,000 - $100,000                  1,904         14%             2,027            15%                123                   1%
   $100,000+                           1,600         12%             4,022            30%              2,422                  18%
   Total                              13,205        100%            13,500           100%

  Renters
    Less than $25,000                   1,687        31%             1,610            26%               -77                   -5%
    $25,000 - $50,000                   2,424        45%             2,364            38%               -60                   -7%
    $50,000 - $75,000                     930        17%             1,295            21%               365                    4%
    $75,000 - $100,000                    212         4%               588             9%               376                    6%
    $100,000 +                            120         2%               340             5%               220                    3%
    Total                               5,373       100%             6,197           100%

Source:     2000 Census, 2016 ACS 5-year estimates, and BBC Research & Consulting.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                SECTION II, PAGE 13
Poverty. Almost 7,000 Taylorsville residents (12% of the population) live below the poverty
line, earning less than $25,000 per year for a family of four. This rate is the same as the state
(12%), but lower than the United States overall (15%).

Figure II-14 displays characteristics of Taylorsville residents living in poverty. The residents
most impacted by poverty include young children, Hispanic families, and families identifying as
Some Other Race (commonly the race category chosen by households not identifying with other
categories and residents of Hispanic descent).

Figure II-14.
                                                                         Number Below    Percent Below
Characteristics of
                                                                Total      Poverty          Poverty
Residents living in
Poverty, Taylorsville,               Total Population           60,097       6,896             12%
2016
                                     Age
Source:                               Under 5 years              5,166       1,101             21%
2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research &
                                      5 to 17 years             10,875       1,564             14%
Consulting.
                                      18 to 34 years            16,517       2,092             13%
                                      35 to 64 years            21,336       1,637              8%
                                      65 years and over          6,203         502              8%

                                     Race
                                       White Alone              47,138       4,502             10%
                                       Black/African American    1,356         159             12%
                                       Asian                     2,724         320             12%
                                       Some other race           5,503       1,533             28%
                                       Two or more races         2,059         335             16%

                                     Ethnicity
                                       Hispanic                 12,614       2,628             21%
                                       Non-Hispanic White       40,820       3,552              9%


Residents over 35 are the least represented as living in poverty (8% of 35-64 year olds and 8%
of seniors).

Figure II-15 shows the areas of Taylorsville with concentrations of poverty. Although there is
some poverty concentration in the north east parts of the city, overall, poverty is not heavily
concentrated.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                               SECTION II, PAGE 14
Figure II-15.
Geographic Distribution of Poverty, Taylorsville, 2016




Source: 2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Jobs and unemployment. Among Taylorsville residents aged 16 and older, 73 percent
participate in the labor force. This includes residents that were currently employed (either part-
time or full-time) or were actively looking for a job.

Figure II-16 presents unemployment rates for Taylorsville, Salt Lake County, the State of Utah,
and the U.S. from 2000 to 2017. Taylorsville, the County, and the State have relatively low
unemployment rates compared to the U.S. overall, particularly since 2014 when unemployment
dropped below 4 percent. While Taylorsville was not immune to the economic downturn in 2008
and 2009, the city faired far better than the U.S. As of 2017, Taylorsville’s unemployment rate
was 3.2 percent.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                         SECTION II, PAGE 15
Figure II-16.
Unemployment Rates in Taylorsville, Salt Lake County, Utah, and the United States, 2000
through 2017




Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics and BBC Research & Consulting.


The US Census Bureau’s Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics reported that there were
28,614 working Taylorsville residents (either employed in the City or commuting to work
outside the City) and 18,937 workers whose primary jobs are located in Taylorsville (some of
these workers live in the City and some live outside the City). Figure II-17 displays employment
by industry for people working in the City and for people living in the City. The figure also
displays the average 2016 wage for each industry.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                        SECTION II, PAGE 16
Figure II-17.
Employment and
Earnings by Industry,
Taylorsville, 2016
Note:
People who both live and work in
Taylorsville are included in both
distributions.


Source:
US Census Bureau’s Longitudinal
Employer-Household Dynamics,
2016 5-year ACS, and BBC
Research & Consulting.




Almost two-thirds (64%) of Taylorsville jobs are concentrated in five industries: educational
services (16%), administration and waste services (15%), retail trade (11%), professional
services (11%), and finance and insurance (11%).

BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                        SECTION II, PAGE 17
Taylorsville residents, most of whom are out-commuters, have a slightly different industry
distribution with retail trade accounting for the largest share of jobs (12%) followed by health
and social services (10%), and manufacturing (10%).

Figure II-18 provides the top three industries of in-commuters (referred to as employees) and
out-commuters (referred to as residents) for Taylorsville and peer communities. Taylorsville
and West Valley had the largest mismatch in the top industries held by employees compared to
residents.

Figure II-18.
Top Industries for Residents and Employees, Taylorsville and Peer Communities




Source: US Census Bureau’s Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics, Bureau of Labor Statistics Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                             SECTION II, PAGE 18
Taylorsville has a greater number of out-commuters than in-commuters, signaling more housing
opportunity and/or less job opportunity within the City. As shown in Figure II-19, over 17,000
people work in Taylorsville but live elsewhere (in-commuters) and almost 27,000 people live in
Taylorsville but commute to jobs elsewhere (out-commuters). In other words, 90 percent of
Taylorsville’s jobs are held by in-commuters and 94 percent of working Taylorsville residents
are out-commuters. In total, only 2,000 people both live and work in Taylorsville. This indicates
an employment mismatch for Taylorsville residents.

Figure II-19.
Inflow and Outflow of Primary
Jobs, Taylorsville, 2015
Source:
US Census Bureau’s Longitudinal Employer-
Household Dynamics and BBC Research &
Consulting.




Figure II-20 displays the top daily destinations of in-commuters and out-commuters to/from
Taylorsville. The largest share of Taylorsville residents work in Salt Lake City and the largest
shares of Taylorsville employees live in West Valley, West Jordan, and Taylorsville. For these
higher cost or low wage cities, Taylorville appears to provide affordable housing for their low to
moderate wage workers.

Figure II-20.
In-Commuter and Out-Commuter Destinations, Taylorsville, 2015




Source: US Census Bureau’s Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                            SECTION II, PAGE 19
SECTION III.
Housing Profile
The ability of a community’s housing stock to meet current and future residents’ needs is
primarily dependent on two factors:

1) What type of housing exists and will be developed; and

2) How much that housing costs.

These are explored in this section of the report.

This Housing Profile section begins with an introduction to the concept of affordability and how
it is measured. It then examines the characteristics of the City’s housing stock, discusses the
affordability analysis, and concludes with an assessment of housing needs.

Assessing Housing Needs
The most common measure of affordability assesses the “burden” housing costs put on a
household. If a household pays more than 30 percent of their gross income in rent or mortgage
payment, taxes, and basic utilities, they are considered to have a housing need. The higher the
cost burden, the greater the need. Cost burden is important because it also indicates how well a
household can manage other expenses—e.g., child care, transportation, health care—and how
much disposable income they have to contribute to the economy.




It is important to note that cost burden exists in nearly every community because demand
exceeds the supply of housing at various price points. Some residents—e.g., persons with
disabilities living on fixed incomes—cannot avoid cost burden unless they occupy publicly


BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                       SECTION III, PAGE 20
subsidized housing or receive Housing Choice Vouchers. Unless an adequate supply of affordable
housing is available, being cost burdened may be the only option for certain residents.

Eligibility for housing programs is generally based on how a resident’s income falls within HUD-
determined income categories, called Area Median Income or AMI. The income thresholds and
target housing are outlined in Figure III-1. The figure also shows what a household at each AMI
level can afford, and the housing products that typically accommodate needs. For example, a
household earning between 30 and 50 percent of the AMI—a very low-income household—is
most likely to find affordable housing in publicly supported housing or through innovative
ownership solutions such as land trusts.

Figure III-1.
HUD Income Thresholds and Target Housing, Salt Lake County, 2018




Note:   AMI levels are for a household size of four, which is HUD convention.
Source: HUD and BBC Research & Consulting.


Taylorsville’s Existing Housing Stock
According to the 2016 ACS there are 20,415 housing units (occupied and vacant) in Taylorsville.
Housing development has increased very little from 2010—a 1 percent increase, or about 250
units. This compares to 5 percent and 1,000 units between 2000 and 2010.

Like many areas across the country, residential development in Taylorsville slowed in the wake
of the recession. Since then, except for 2017, resident development has lagged behind
recessionary levels.

Figure III-2 displays residential permitting over the past 20 years, broken out by housing type.
Data for 2018 reflects only January through April.


BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                        SECTION III, PAGE 21
Figure III-2.
Building Permits Issued, Taylorsville, 1998 through April 2018




Source: HUD State of the Cities Data Systems Building Permit Database and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                              SECTION III, PAGE 22
Housing type. Nearly two thirds of Taylorsville housing stock is single family detached and 31
percent is attached housing (paired homes, townhomes, apartments, condos, etc.). In addition, 5
percent of the housing stock is mobile homes.

As shown below, the vast majority of Taylorsville owners (83%) live in single family detached
houses and the majority of renters (76%) live in attached units. “Tenure,” in this case, refers to
ownership or rentership.

Figure III-3.
Occupied Housing by Tenure, Taylorsville, 2016




Source: 2012-2016 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates and BBC Research & Consulting.


Household size and bedrooms. The average household size in Taylorsville is 3.06—similar
to Salt Lake County (3.03), but smaller than the state as a whole (3.16).

Figure III-4 breaks down the distribution of household size by homeownership. Overall, two-
person households are the largest group in Taylorsville, comprising nearly one third of all
households.

Homeowners are mostly likely to be two-person households, while renters are usually one-
person or two-person households. Considering the age trends in Taylorsville, the large
proportion of young professionals and older adults heavily impact the distribution of household
size in the city. Five-person or larger households account for 16 percent of households.

Figure III-4.
Household Size by Homeownership, Taylorsville, 2016

                                                  Owner Occupied                Renter Occupied        All Households
   Household Size                                Number    Percent             Number    Percent     Number      Percent

   1-person household                               2,605          19%           1,763        28%      4,368       22%
   2-person household                               4,275          32%           1,697        27%      5,972       30%
   3-person household                               2243           17%             779        13%      3,022       15%
   4-person household                               2159           16%             929        15%      3,088       16%
   5-person household                               1131            8%             549         9%      1,680        9%
   6-person household                                 611           5%             368         6%        979        5%
   7-or-more person household                         476           4%             112         2%        588        3%

   Total                                          13,500         100%            6,197        100%    19,697      100%

Source: 2012-2016 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                SECTION III, PAGE 23
As shown in Figure III-5, Taylorsville has a higher proportion of large units compared to
Millcreek and Murray. The only other peer community with more large units is West Jordan.

Figure III-5.
Number of Bedrooms,
Taylorsville and Peer
Communities, 2016
Source:
2012-2016 American Community Survey 5-
Year Estimates and BBC Research &
Consulting.




Taylorsville has an almost equal distribution of two bedroom (23%), three bedroom (25%), and
four bedroom units (26%).

Age of housing stock. About 10 percent of Taylorsville’s housing stock was built in the past
15 years (since 2000). Over one third (41%) was built between 1980 and 2000. Almost half
(48%) was built between 1940 and 1980 and just 1 percent was built before 1940. Figure III-6
displays the city’s housing stock by age; data for peer communities are included for comparison.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                       SECTION III, PAGE 24
Figure III-6.
Age of Housing Stock,
Taylorsville and Peer
Communities, 2016


Source:
2012-2016 American Community Survey 5-
Year Estimates and BBC Research &
Consulting.




Most of Taylorsville's housing stock was built after 1940, therefore reducing the risk of lead-
based paint.1 Age of homes can be an important indicator of housing condition: older houses
tend to have more condition problems and are more likely to contain materials such as lead
based paint.

Overcrowding and substandard condition. Other key factors to examine in evaluating
housing condition are overcrowding and substandard units. Overcrowding in housing can
threaten public health, strain public infrastructure, and points to an increasing need of
affordable housing. This study uses HUD’s definition of having more than one person per room
to identify overcrowded units.2 Approximately 4 percent of the city’s households—or about 830
households—are overcrowded.




1 Lead-based paint was banned from residential use in 1978. Housing built before 1978 is considered to have some risk, but

housing built prior to 1940 is considered to have the highest risk. After 1940, paint manufacturers voluntarily began to reduce
the amount of lead they added to their paint. As a result, painted surfaces in homes built before 1940 are likely to have higher
levels of lead than homes built between 1940 and 1978.
2 The HUD American Housing Survey defines a room as an enclosed space used for living purposes, such as a bedroom, living or

dining room, kitchen, recreation room, or another finished room suitable for year-round use. Excluded are bathrooms, laundry
rooms, utility rooms, pantries, and unfinished areas.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                 SECTION III, PAGE 25
The 2016 ACS reported that 36 units (vacant and occupied) in the city lacked complete plumbing
facilities and 84 housing units (vacant and occupied) lacked complete kitchens. These 120
severely substandard units represent less than 1 percent of the city’s total housing units.

Homeownership. Many cities in Utah have a large proportion of homeowners and Taylorsville
is no different. While renters are not as common, rentership has increased dramatically since
2010. The number of renters in Taylorsville increased by 14 percent, like Millcreek and West
Jordan. South Jordan has seen the largest increase in their renter population with a 50 percent
change in just the last six years.

Figure III-7.
Homeownership Trends, Taylorsville and Surrounding Communities, 2010 and 2016

                                          2010                               2016                             Percent Change
                                 Owner           Renter             Owner           Renter               Owner              Renter

   Draper                          81%             19%                80%             20%                   -1.2%            5.3%
   Millcreek                       65%             35%                60%             40%                   -7.7%           14.3%
   Murray                          69%             31%                64%             36%                   -7.2%           16.1%
   Salt Lake City                  50%             50%                48%             52%                   -4.0%            4.0%
   Sandy                           82%             18%                77%             23%                   -6.1%           27.8%
   South Jordan                    86%             14%                79%             21%                   -8.1%           50.0%
   Taylorsville                    72%             28%                69%             32%                   -4.2%           14.3%
   West Jordan                     78%             22%                75%             25%                   -3.8%           13.6%
   West Valley City                70%             30%                69%             31%                   -1.4%            3.3%
   Salt Lake County                69%             32%                66%             34%                   -4.3%            6.3%

Source: 2006-2010 and 2012-2016 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates and BBC Research & Consulting.


Taylorsville renter households earn significantly less than owner households and are more likely
to have an income of 80 percent of AMI or below. Figure III-8 compares Taylorsville AMI levels
by tenure.

One third of owner households are moderate to low-income, compared to two thirds of renter
households.

Figure III-8.
                                                                                  Owner Households              Renter Households
AMI Income
Distribution by                                                Income Limit       Number    Percent             Number     Percent
Tenure,
Taylorsville, 2016               Area Median Income (AMI)          $73,800

                                 0-30% of AMI                      $22,140            1,355        10%              1,301       21%
Note:
                                 31-50% of AMI                     $36,900            1,447        11%              1,471       24%
2016 HUD Income limits for
Salt Lake County were used       51-80% of AMI                     $59,040            1,592        12%              1,203       19%
to match available ACS data.     81-95% of AMI                     $70,110            2,459        18%              1,042       17%
                                 96-120% of AMI                    $88,560            1,697        13%                572        9%
Source:
                                 121-150% of AMI                  $110,700            1,504        11%                320        5%
2016 5-year ACS, HUD, and
BBC Research & Consulting.
                                 151% and above of AMI            $110,700            3,445        26%                289        5%




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                           SECTION III, PAGE 26
Ownership Market Trends
This section introduces the homeownership market in Taylorsville by price trends, home values,
and home sales.

In 2016, the Census’ ACS estimated the median value of owner-occupied housing units in
Taylorsville at $192,800. Over 75 percent of all Taylorsville owner-occupied units (10,453) are
valued between $100,000 and $300,000. About 11 percent (1,496) are valued below $100,000.
Figure III-9 displays the value of Taylorsville’s owner-occupied housing units since 2000.

Figure III-9.
Home Value Distribution, Taylorsville, 2000, 2010, and 2016




Source: 2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


In 2000, the median value of owner-occupied housing in Taylorsville was $138,100. Since 2000,
the median value increased $54,700 (40%)—or by about $3,420 per year.

Figure III-10 compares the median value of owner-occupied housing in Taylorsville with peer
communities. As shown in the figure, Taylorsville has one of the more affordable median values
in the Salt Lake Valley. Southern suburbs, Draper, Sandy, and South Jordan, have the highest
median home values among peer communities. Unlike Taylorsville, these suburbs have newer
built and larger homes.

Figure III-10.
Median Value, Taylorsville
and Peer Communities,
2016
Source:
2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research &
Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                       SECTION III, PAGE 27
Examining median home value is an important measurement to understanding local housing
markets, but value does not always represent what a household can purchase. Both current
listings and historical sales can provide additional insight into the price of housing.

Figure III-11 shows median sale price trends of Taylorsville and peer communities.

Figure III-11.
Median Sale Price, Taylorsville and Peer Communities, 1997 to 2018




Source: Zillow median sale price and BBC Research & Consulting.


According to Zillow, Taylorsville has one of the lowest median sale prices of its peer
communities, but higher than the U.S. overall.

In the late 1990’s and early 2000’s, price differentiation among some peer communities, the
county, and the state was negligible. Taylorsville experienced a similar trend of price growth and
decline as other communities but had a slower period of growth prior to 2006.

Draper, Sandy, and South Jordan have always had higher housing prices than surrounding
communities but experienced a sharper increase and decrease in sale prices before and during
the recession.

Figure III-11 also shows that the current median sale price across all geographies has exceeded
pre-recession price peaks.

Recently sold homes are mapped by price and type in Figure III-12. Some neighborhoods in
Taylorsville have concentrations of high-priced homes, but overall, home sale prices between
$150,000 and $300,000 are evenly dispersed throughout the city.


BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                         SECTION III, PAGE 28
Figure III-12.
Recently Sold Homes, Taylorsville, August 2016 to June 2018




Source: Redfin and BBC Research & Consulting.


What can a household buy today in Taylorsville? If a household were looking to buy a
home in Taylorsville today, housing costs may differ from the median value or sale trends shown
previously.

Figure III-13 displays median characteristics for home listings in August 2018. As the figure
shows, the median price of Taylorsville listings is more competitive with surrounding
communities compared to historical sale trends.

Taylorsville has one of the highest per square foot prices ($169) among peer communities, only
behind Millcreek. Taylorsville also has one of the lowest inventories and average days on the
market. Although the homes for sale in Taylorsville tend to be smaller and older, there is a still a
high demand for housing in this price range.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                          SECTION III, PAGE 29
Figure III-13.
Median Characteristics of Listings, Taylorsville and Surrounding Cities, August 2018

                                                                                  Days on the   # of homes
   City                                Price     Sq.Ft.   $/Sq.Ft.   Year Built     market      on market

   Draper                             $599,900    4,168     $144        2003          45            211
   Millcreek                          $374,900    2,108     $178        1978          31             83
   Murray                             $399,999    2,696     $148        1985          34             69
   Sandy                              $444,475    2,907     $153        1984          33            310
   South Jordan                       $469,950    3,151     $149        2006          36            348
   Taylorsville                       $359,900    2,128     $169        1978          27            152
   West Jordan                        $325,000    2,184     $149        1981          21            239
   West Valley City                   $359,900    2,403     $150        1994          25            260

Source: Redfin and BBC Research & Consulting.


Taylorsville listings may be competitive with peer communities for households currently trying
to buy, but the product may not meet the needs or desires of the buyer. As discussed above, the
city’s housing is generally older than surrounding communities and, as such, may require
investment of new buyers to address needed repairs, as well as updating.

Figure III-14 provides examples of homes currently for sale in each community similar to the
median characteristics of current listings.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                   SECTION III, PAGE 30
Figure III-14.
What Can a Resident Buy Today?




Source: Redfin and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                       SECTION III, PAGE 31
Rental Market Trends
According to HUD’s Comprehensive Housing Market Analysis, apartment vacancy rates in the
Salt Lake metro area in the third quarter of 2016 were at 2.9 percent—indicating a tight rental
market. The Salt Lake metro overall rental vacancy rate (including apartments, mobile homes,
and single-family homes) was 4.8 percent and the average rent was $967. In Taylorsville, the
2016 rental vacancy rate was 4.3 percent and the average rent was $930.

Vacancy rates around 5 percent typically indicate a competitive equilibrium in the housing
market. Rates that fall below 5 percent indicate a very tight market. Figure III-15 shows vacancy
rates for Taylorsville and surrounding communities over the last decade. Taylorsville
experienced the highest vacancy rates in 2007 and 2014, but rates never reached 5 percent
(reaching a low of 3% in 2009).

Taylorsville had some of the lowest historical vacancy rates compared to Draper, Murray, and
Salt Lake City, which experienced the highest vacancy rates among surrounding communities. In
2016, almost every community had vacancy rates at or below 5 percent, except for Salt Lake City,
which hasn’t experienced a vacancy rate below 7 percent in the last 10 years.

Figure III-15.
Vacancy Rates, Taylorsville and Peer Communities, 2007 to 2016

10%

 9%
                                                                                            Salt Lake County
 8%
                                                                                            Draper

 7%                                                                                         Murray

                                                                                            Salt Lake City
 6%
                                                                                            Sandy

 5%                                                                                         South Jordan

                                                                                            Taylorsville
 4%
                                                                                            West Jordan
 3%                                                                                         West Valley City

 2%
   2007        2008      2009       2010      2011       2012   2013   2014   2015   2016
Source: 3-year and 5-year ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Figure III-16 shows the distribution of rental prices in Taylorsville in 2000, 2010, and 2016.
Although the largest shift in rent distribution occurred between 2000 and 2010, rental prices
continue to increase.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                     SECTION III, PAGE 32
Figure III-16.
Gross Rent Distribution, Taylorsville, 2016




Source: 2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


The distribution of rent in Taylorsville has drastically changed since 2000, when almost 70
percent of units were priced below $750. Only 8 percent of units during that time were more
than $1,000.

In 2016, almost 40 percent of the rental units in Taylorsville were priced above $1,000 and
almost a tenth were priced over $1,500. These rental prices would not be affordable to a low-
income family looking to rent in the City today.

According to the 2016 American Community Survey, median rent in Taylorsville was $930 per
month, up from $681 in 2000. Figure III-17 shows the median rent in Taylorsville compared to
peer communities.

Median rent in Taylorsville is lower than many nearby communities but higher than Salt Lake
City ($844). Similar to home value, the southern suburban communities—Draper, Sandy, and
South Jordan—had the highest median rents around $1,200 to $1,400.

Figure III-17.
Median Rent, Taylorsville
and Peer Communities, 2016
Source:
2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research &
Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                       SECTION III, PAGE 33
Gaps Analysis
To examine how well Taylorsville’s current housing market meets the needs of its residents—
and to determine how likely it is to accommodate demand of future residents and workers—this
study used a modeling effort called a “gap analysis.” The analysis compares the supply of housing
at various price points to the number of households who can afford such housing. If there are
more housing units than households, the market is “oversupplying” housing at that price range.
Conversely, if there are too few units, the market is “undersupplying” housing. The gap analysis
conducted for renters in Taylorsville addresses both rental affordability and ownership
opportunities for renters who want to buy. The gap analysis is similar to the approach the State
of Utah recommends for Middle Income Housing Studies and the results reflect the needs
identified by the state.

Gaps in the rental market. Figure III-18 compares the number of renter households in
Taylorsville in 2010, their income levels, the maximum monthly rent they could afford without
being cost burdened, and the number of units in the market that were affordable to them.3

The “Rental Gap” column shows the difference between the number of renter households and
the number of rental units affordable to them. Negative numbers (in parentheses) indicate a
shortage of units at the specific income level; positive units indicate an excess of units.

Figure III-19 shows the same information, but for 2016.

The results of the gap analyses show:

     The City has 1,600 renters who earn less than $25,000 per year. These renters make up 26
      percent of the City’s renters. There are 320 rental units to serve these renters—leaving a
      gap of 1,290 units. The majority of the gap is for the City’s very lowest income renters, those
      making less than $15,000 per year. These 795 renters can find just 94 rental units that they
      can afford in the City.

     Overall, Taylorsville’s rental need is moderate—with a gap of almost 1,300 rental units at
      the very lowest rent ranges. The 2016 low-income rental gap is slightly larger than in 2010,
      when it was about 1,200 households. The biggest shift in the rental gap occurred for
      households earning between $15,000 and $25,000, who find fewer affordable rentals
      available. This gap widened even as the number of lower income renters declined.

     The rental market in Taylorsville is largely priced to serve renters earning between $25,000
      and $50,000 per year. These households can afford to pay between $625 and $1,250 per
      month in rent and utilities without being cost burdened. Seventy-six percent of the City’s
      rental units fall within this price range.




3 It is important to note that renters who cannot find affordable rents are not homeless. Those renters who cannot find

affordabile priced rentals are living in units that cost more than they can afford (or doubling up). These households are “cost
burdened.” These households consist of students, working residents earning low wages, residents who are unemployed, and
residents who are disabled and cannot work. These data points do not capture persons experiencing homelessness.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                  SECTION III, PAGE 34
Figure III-18.
Mismatch in Rental Market, Taylorsville, 2010

                                  Max                 Renters              Rental Units       Rental       Cumulative
  Income Range              Affordable Rent       Number   Percent      Number     Percent     Gap            Gap

  Less than $5,000                  $125              141          3%        0        0%        (141)           (141)
  $5,000 to $9,999                  $250              361          7%       69        1%        (292)           (433)
  $10,000 to $14,999                $375              335          6%        0        0%        (335)           (768)
  $15,000 to $19,999                $500              451          8%      165        3%        (286)         (1,055)
  $20,000 to $24,999                $625              551         10%      409        7%        (142)         (1,196)
  $25,000 to $34,999                $875              903         17%    2,507       43%       1,604             407
  $35,000 to $49,999              $1,250            1,045         19%    1,846       32%         801           1,208
  $50,000 to $74,999              $1,875            1,020         19%      753       13%        (267)            941
  $75,000 to $99,999             $1,875+              623         11%       99        2%        (524)            417
  Total/Low Income Gap                              5,430        100%    5,847      100%      (1,196)

Source: 2010 5-year ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.


Figure III-19.
Mismatch in Rental Market, Taylorsville, 2016

                                      Max
                                   Affordable          Renters              Rental Units       Rental       Cumulative
   Income Range                       Rent         Number   Percent      Number     Percent     Gap            Gap

   Less than $5,000                     $125               192     3%         0        0%        (192)           (192)
   $5,000 to $9,999                     $250               211     3%        24        0%        (187)           (379)
   $10,000 to $14,999                   $375               392     6%        70        1%        (322)           (701)
   $15,000 to $19,999                   $500               274     4%        66        1%        (208)           (909)
   $20,000 to $24,999                   $625               541     9%       160        2%        (381)         (1,290)
   $25,000 to $34,999                   $875               987    16%     2,276       35%       1,289              (0)
   $35,000 to $49,999                 $1,250             1,377    22%     2,661       41%       1,284           1,284
   $50,000 to $74,999                 $1,875             1,295    21%     1,051       16%        (244)          1,039
   $75,000 to $99,999                 $2,500               828    13%       210        3%        (618)            421
   $100,000 or more                  $2,500+               100     2%         0        0%        (100)            321

   Total/Low Income Gap                                  6,197   100%     6,518      100%      (1,290)




Source: 2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                              SECTION III, PAGE 35
The State of Utah provides free planning tools to assist cities with developing the moderate-
income housing element of their general plan. As part of these resources, the State includes a
rental housing gap assessment.

Figure III-20 shows the State’s rental housing gap assessment for Taylorsville in 2015. Both
BBC’s and the State’s gap analyses show a similar rental need for low-income households,
particularly those earning 30 percent of the area median income (AMI) or below.

The State’s gap assessment shows that:

    In 2015, 20 percent of renters (1,190 households) living in Taylorsville earned 30 percent
     of AMI or below, up from 15 percent in 2010. These renters need units that cost less than
     $500 per month to avoid being cost burdened.

    Of these extremely low-income renters, 91 percent are cost burdened and 82 percent are
     severely cost burdened.

    Just 385 rental units in the City are affordable to these households. This leaves a “gap,” or
     shortage, of 805 units for extremely low-income households.

    Only a portion (120) of affordable units are available to rent for households earning 30
     percent of AMI or below, leaving an even larger gap of 1,070 units.

    For every 100 Taylorsville renters earning 30 percent of AMI or below, there are 32
     affordable units, but only 10 affordable and available units.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                          SECTION III, PAGE 36
Figure III-20.
State of Utah’s Affordable Housing Gap Analysis, Taylorsville, 2011-2015




Source: U.S. Dept. of Housing & Urban Development (2018). Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy, 2011-2015 (Data). Available at
        www.huduser.gov/portal/datasets/cp.html




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                               SECTION III, PAGE 37
Gaps in the for-sale market. A similar gaps analysis was conducted to evaluate the market
options affordable to renters who may wish to purchase a home in Taylorsville. The for-sale gap
model compares renters, renter income levels, the maximum monthly housing payment they
could afford, and the proportion of units in the market that were affordable to them. The
maximum affordable home prices shown in Figure III-21 assume a 30-year mortgage with a 10
percent down payment and a fixed interest rate of 4.55 percent. The estimates also incorporate
property taxes, insurance, HOA fees, and utilities (assumed to collectively account for 35% of the
monthly payment).

The “Renter Purchase Gap” column in Figure III-21 shows the difference between the proportion
of renter households and the proportion of homes sold between August 2016 and August 2018
that were affordable to them. Negative numbers (in parentheses) indicate a shortage of units at
the specific income level; positive units indicate an excess of units.

According to the ownership gaps analysis, renters who want to buy will have trouble finding an
affordable home until they earn more than $50,000—the income at which homes to buy begin to
become affordable. During 2016 and 2018, there were only 6 affordable homes to buy for the
100 renters earning less than $50,000 and 20 homes for 100 renters earning between $50,000
and $75,000. Over the last two years, only 219 homes sold in Taylorsville within that price
range (15% of all listed/sold homes); 94 percent of those were attached homes.

It is important to note that home size, condition, and housing preferences are not considered in
the affordability model. The model also assumes that renters are able to save for a 10 percent
down payment (up to $19,000 for a household earning less than $50,000 annually).

Figure III-21.
Market Options for Renters Wanting to Buy, Taylorsville, 2016 to 2018

                                                                                       Homes Sold                  Renter    Percent of
                               Max Affordable             Renters                     2016 to 2018                Purchase Homes that are
 Income Range                   Home Price            Number   Percent              Number    Percent               Gap      Attached

 Less than $35,000        $132,368                      2,597           42%               57            4%           -38%             100%
 $35,000 to $49,999       $189,097                      1,377           22%              162           11%           -11%              92%
 $50,000 to $74,999       $283,645                      1,295           21%              747           53%            32%              12%
 $75,000 to $99,999       $378,194                        588            9%              342           24%             15%              4%
 $100,000 to $149,999     $567,291                        240            4%              101            7%              3%              0%
 $150,000 or more         $567,292+                       100            2%                5            0%             -1%              0%
 Total/ Gap below $75,000                               6,197          100%            1,414          100%           -17%

Note:   Maximum affordable home price is based on a 30-year mortgage with a 10 percent down payment, and an interest rate of 4.00%. Property
        taxes, insurance, HOA and utilities are assumed to collectively account for 35% of the monthly payment. Sale data from Redfin only include
        homes for which sale prices were available.
Source: Redfin and BBC Research & Consulting.


Cost burden. An important measurement of a city’s housing environment is the percentage of a
household’s total monthly income that must be spent on housing costs. It is common practice to
label any household spending over 30 percent of their monthly income on housing expenses as
“cost-burdened.” For owner-occupied housing, this assessment is split into households with a
mortgage and households without a mortgage.


BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                  SECTION III, PAGE 38
In 2016, approximately 27 percent of Taylorsville’s owner-occupied households with a mortgage
spent over 30 percent of their monthly income on housing costs; for those owner-occupied
households without a mortgage, this percentage is only 14 percent. In comparison, 24 percent of
Utah owner-occupied households with a mortgage and 7 percent of Utah owner-occupied
households without a mortgage were “cost burdened.” Figure III-22 distributes both owner-
occupied households with and without a mortgage based on the percentage of household
monthly income spent on monthly housing costs.

Figure III-22.
                                                                         With a Mortgage       Without a Mortgage
Monthly Housing Costs
as Percent of Monthly                                                            Percent of              Percent of
Income, Owner-occupied                                                  Number      Total      Number      Total
Households, Taylorsville,
2016                                             Less than 20 percent    4,302         46%      3,132        77%
                                                 20 to 24.9 percent      1,516         16%        154         4%
Source:                                          25 to 29.9 percent      1,013         11%        180         4%
2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research &               30 to 34.9 percent        599          6%         76         2%
Consulting.
                                                 35 percent or more      1,954         21%        517        13%
                                                 Not computed               22          0%         35         1%
                                                 Total                   9,406        100%      4,094       100%


Taylorsville’s renter occupied households have a slightly different distribution to Taylorsville’s
owner-occupied households with a mortgage: 43 percent of Taylorsville’s renters spent more
than 30 percent of their monthly income on housing costs. In comparison, 42 percent of all Utah
renter-occupied households spent over 30 percent of their monthly income on housing costs in
2016. Figure III-23 distributes renter occupied households based on the percentage of monthly
household income spend on housing costs.

Figure III-23.
                                                                                                         Percent of
Monthly Housing Costs as Percent of Monthly
                                                                                               Number      Total
Income, Renter Occupied Households,
Taylorsville, 2016
                                                                        Less than 20 percent    1,383        22%
Source:                                                                 20 to 24.9 percent        774        12%
2016 5-year ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.                          25 to 29.9 percent      1,018        16%
                                                                        30 to 34.9 percent        431         7%
                                                                        35 percent or more      2,242        36%
                                                                        Not computed              349         6%
                                                                        Total                   6,197       100%


Older adults and seniors. Ten percent of Taylorsville residents—or 6,226 people—are age 65
and older. This compares with 5,319 seniors in 2010 and just 3,624 in 2000. The proportion of
the population’s residents who are seniors has steadily increased from 6 percent in 2000 to 9
percent in 2010. This is expected to continue over the next 10 years with the aging of the large
baby boomer cohort.

Taylorsville currently has a higher proportion of senior residents than the county. Seniors will
comprise 16 percent of residents in the county, compared to just 8 percent in 2010.

Figure III-24 shows the number of seniors in Salt Lake County for 1990 through 2010 and
projected for 2020, 2030, and 2040.

BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                          SECTION III, PAGE 39
Figure III-24.
Number and Proportion of
Seniors, Salt Lake County,
1990-2010 and 2020-2040
Projections
Source:
Governor's Office of Planning and
Budget, 2012 Baseline Projections, and
BBC Research & Consulting.




Age and housing choices. Future seniors have the potential to significantly impact housing
demand if only because of their large numbers. They will also affect needs for supportive
services that seniors patronize including home health care, meal delivery, and transit.

Another large cohort—residents between the ages of 25 and 34, also known as generation Y or
millennials—is already affecting the delivery of housing products. These residents, who are
delaying marriage, childbearing, household formation, and homeownership relative to past
generations, have played an important role in the revival of the rental market, which had some
of the highest vacancy rates in recent history during the mid-2000s.

It is generally agreed upon that, during the next 10 to 20 years, the aging of these two large
cohorts—baby boomers and millennials—will significantly impact the housing market. There
are divergent views on how these impacts will be felt. Some believe that once millennials form
families they will migrate toward the suburbs, much like generations before them. Others
believe they will remain in the urban centers they have helped to revitalize and create.

The Urban Land Institute (ULI) has done some of the most comprehensive and recent surveying
of millennials/generation Y’s housing preferences. The 2013 ULI survey of this cohort found
favorable responses to developments that have a variety of housing types, are mixed-use and
pedestrian friendly, suggesting a desire for both urban and “urban light,” mixed-use settings that
are growing in suburban markets.4

Some research has shown similar preferences toward denser, walkable residential
environments among baby boomers. Yet the behavior of seniors, historically, has been to remain
in their own homes as long as possible. If this continues, there will be a large need for expanded
home health care networks to accommodate growth in seniors throughout the region, as well as
home modifications to accommodate disabilities, senior-friendly transit and, for seniors who can
afford and desire to move, senior-friendly residential communities.




4 http://uli.org/research/centers-initiatives/terwilliger-center-for-housing/research/community-survey/ contains a

compilation of recent surveys, articles and opinions on millennials’ housing preferences.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                             SECTION III, PAGE 40
Mobile homes. Mobile homes are a form of affordable housing that allow lower income
residents to become homeowners. Although this creates more housing opportunity for these
households, mobile home parks can also be an environment of uncertainty. Most mobile home
owners do not own their land and have to pay a monthly rent for the lot, subjecting tenants to
the volatility of the housing market that could make monthly payments unaffordable.

Increasing home and land values in the Salt Lake metro has also given mobile home park owners
a large incentive to sell, putting additional pressure on tenants who would need to relocate their
home. Many homeowners become displaced because they either cannot find somewhere to
move their mobile home, or their home is too old to be relocated. Mobile home owners have
increasingly limited options.

The number of mobile homes in Taylorsville has fluctuated over the last decade but has
increased slightly from 871 units in 2010 to 985 units in 2016. About 5 percent of the total
housing stock in Taylorsville are mobile home units.

The 2016 median value for mobile homes in Taylorsville was $23,900—the highest since the
housing market crashed. In 2013, mobile home values reached a ten year low at $19,400. While
this type of housing product may allow some households to become homeowners, mobile homes
do not provide the same type of stability or equity as other for-sale homes.

Regardless of the uncertainty or lack of stability, there is still a demand for this type of affordable
homeownership in Taylorsville. There are currently 7 mobile homes for sale in Taylorsville for a
median list price of $50,000. Most of the mobile home listings were built in the 1990’s and
require some level of maintenance. Although these prices appear affordable compared to a
single-family home or attached home, the mortgage payment may only be a small portion of a
household’s monthly housing costs.

Lot rents for mobile home parks are often higher than mortgage payments, which can increase
monthly costs substantially. The average lot fee for mobile home parks in Taylorsville is around
$700 per month. For a mobile home priced at $50,000, the monthly payments would be around
$3305. Without adding the fee for the lot, a household would need an income of just over $13,000
to afford this mortgage. Monthly costs increase to $1,000—a 500 percent increase—when the
average lot rent is incorporated into the mortgage payment. To afford to purchase this mobile
home and pay lot rent, a household would need to earn almost $41,000 annually. More than half
of Taylorsville renters would not be able to afford the current median list price of a mobile home
without being cost-burdened.

Although there is a common perception that mobile homes are affordable, current prices and lot
rents show that this type of housing is not a viable option for many low-income residents in
Taylorsville.

Workforce and affordability. Figure III-25 displays affordable rental and ownership options for
workers earning the average wage by industry. Among the five largest industries of Taylorsville


5 Monthly mortgage payments assume 10 percent down payment, August 2018 interest rate of 4.55%, $125 in monthly

utilities, and $375 in annual property taxes.



BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                         SECTION III, PAGE 41
residents (those who live and work in the City as well as out-commuters), which account for
nearly half of all resident workers, two—Health/Social Services and Manufacturing—have
average wages high enough to afford the City’s median rent ($930), but none of these industries
can afford the 2016 Zillow home value $235,950.

Affordability for Taylorsville workers (those who live and work in the City as well as in-
commuters) is slightly better: two of the top five industries (Professional Services and
Finance/Insurance) can afford median rent and one (Finance/Insurance) can afford the median
home price.

The only industries that can afford Taylorsville’s median home price have average wages over
$68,000, but these industries comprise a small portion all jobs for resident and workers.

Overall, the average worker in the Salt Lake region—earning $51,033 per year—could afford 82
percent of Taylorsville’s rental units, but only 19 percent of the homes sold in Taylorsville in
2016 (the majority—79 percent—of which were attached homes).

Figure III-25.
Affordability for Workers by Industry, Taylorsville, 2016

                                          Job Distribution    Job Distribution        Average
                                           for Taylorsville    for Taylorsville   Annual Wage in         Max          Can Afford    Max Affordable   Can Afford Median
  Industry                                    Residents           Workers          Salt Lake MSA   Affordable Rent   Median Rent?    Home Price         Home Price?

  Private, Total, all industries                100%                100%              $51,033           $1,276           yes           $191,074             no
  Retail Trade                                   12%                 11%              $36,194            $905            no            $135,515             no
  Health and Social Services                     10%                  9%              $45,490           $1,137           yes           $170,320             no
  Manufacturing                                  10%                  3%              $60,589           $1,515           yes           $226,852             no
  Educational Services                            9%                 16%              $35,328            $883            no            $132,272             no
  Admin and Waste Services                        8%                 15%              $36,335            $908            no            $136,043             no
  Accommodation and Food Services                 7%                  9%              $18,575            $464            no             $69,547             no
  Professional Services                           7%                 11%              $59,523           $1,488           yes           $222,861             no
  Construction                                    6%                  2%              $52,129           $1,303           yes           $195,177             no
  Finance and Insurance                           6%                 11%              $72,297           $1,807           yes           $270,689             yes
  Transportation and Warehousing                  5%                  0%              $51,180           $1,280           yes           $191,624             no
  Wholesale Trade                                 5%                  1%              $68,982           $1,725           yes           $258,277             yes
  Public Administration                           4%                  4%              $55,211           $1,380           yes           $206,717             no
  Other Services                                  3%                  1%              $39,104            $978            yes           $146,410             no
  Information                                     2%                  3%              $77,740           $1,944           yes           $291,068             yes
  Real Estate                                     2%                  2%              $54,716           $1,368           yes           $204,863             no
  Management of Companies                         2%                  1%              $94,463           $2,362           yes           $353,681             yes
  Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation             1%                  2%              $32,804            $820            no            $122,822             no
  Mining and Oil and Gas Extraction               0%                  0%              $85,560           $2,139           yes           $320,347             yes
  Natural Resources                               0%                  0%              $35,121            $878            no            $131,497             no
  Utilities                                       0%                  0%              $94,422           $2,361           yes           $353,527             yes

Note:         Public Administration, Other Services, Information, and Management of Companies do not have wage data
              available at the MSA level and were replaced with County data, which has slightly higher wages than the MSA
              overall.
Source: US Census Bureau’s Longitudinal Employer-Household Dynamics, Bureau of Labor Statistics Quarterly Census of
        Employment and Wages (BLS QCEW), Genesis Group MLS data, 2016 ACS and BBC Research & Consulting.




BBC RESEARCH & CONSULTING                                                                                                                  SECTION III, PAGE 42
