17-79-404. Public hearing by planning commission on proposed general plan or amendment -- Notice -- Revisions to general plan or amendment -- Adoption or rejection by legislative body.

[History: Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 14, 2025 Special Session 1]

(1)
    (a) After completing the planning commission's recommendation for a proposed general plan, or proposal to amend the general plan, the planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the proposed plan or amendment.
    (b) The planning commission shall provide notice of the public hearing for the county, as a class A notice under Section 63G-30-102, for at least 10 calendar days before the day of the public hearing.
    (c) After the public hearing, the planning commission may modify the proposed general plan or amendment.
(2) The planning commission shall forward the proposed general plan or amendment to the legislative body.
(3)
    (a) As provided by local ordinance and by Section 17-79-204, the legislative body shall provide notice of the legislative body's intent to consider the general plan proposal.
    (b)
        (i)
            (A) In addition to the requirements of Subsections (1), (2), and (3)(a), the legislative body shall hold a public hearing in Salt Lake City on provisions of the proposed county plan regarding Subsection 17-79-402(3).
            (B) The public hearing procedure shall comply with this Subsection (3)(b).
        (ii) The public hearing format shall allow:
            (A) adequate time for public comment at the actual public hearing; and
            (B) for public comment in writing to be submitted to the legislative body for not fewer than 90 days after the date of the public hearing.
    (c)
        (i) The legislative body shall give notice of the hearing in accordance with this Subsection (3) when the proposed plan provisions required by Subsection 17-79-402(3) are complete.
        (ii) Direct notice of the public hearing shall be given, in writing, to:
            (A) the governor;
            (B) members of the state Legislature;
            (C) the executive director of the Department of Environmental Quality;
            (D) the state planning coordinator;
            (E) the Resource Development Coordinating Committee created in Section 63L-11-401; and
            (F) any other citizens or entities who specifically request notice of the public hearing in writing.
        (iii) Public notice shall be given for the county, as a class A notice under Section 63G-30-102, for at least 180 days.
        (iv) The notice shall be published to allow reasonable time for interested parties and the state to evaluate the information regarding Subsection 17-79-402(3), including publication described in Subsection (3)(c)(iii) for 180 days before the date of the hearing to be held under this Subsection (3).
(4)
    (a) After the public hearing required under this section, the legislative body may adopt, reject, or make any revisions to the proposed general plan that the legislative body considers appropriate.
    (b) The legislative body shall respond in writing and in a substantive manner to all those providing comments as a result of the hearing required by Subsection (3).
    (c) If the county legislative body rejects the proposed general plan or amendment, the legislative body may provide suggestions to the planning commission for the planning commission's review and recommendation.
(5) The legislative body shall adopt the following elements and plans in conformity with the requirements of Section 17-79-403:
    (a) a land use element;
    (b) a transportation and traffic circulation element;
    (c) for a specified county as defined in Section 17-80-101, a moderate income housing element;
    (d) a resource management plan; and
    (e) on or before December 31, 2025, a water use and preservation element.
