17-79-716. Notice.

[History: Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 14, 2025 Special Session 1]

(1) For any new subdivision development located in whole or in part within 1,000 feet of the boundary of a vested critical infrastructure materials operations created under Chapter 81, Part 7, Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations, the owner of the development shall provide notice on any plat filed with the county recorder the following notice:"Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials OperationsThis property is located in the vicinity of an established vested critical infrastructure materials operations in which critical infrastructure materials operations have been afforded the highest priority use status. It can be anticipated that such operations may now or in the future be conducted on property included in the critical infrastructure materials operations. The use and enjoyment of this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or inconvenience that may result from such normal critical infrastructure materials operations."
(2) For any new subdivision development located in whole or in part within 300 feet of the boundary of an agriculture protection area created under Chapter 81, Part 2, Proposal and Approval of Protection Areas, the owner of the development shall provide notice on any plat filed with the county recorder the following notice:"Agriculture Protection AreaThis property is located in the vicinity of an established agriculture protection area in which normal agricultural uses and activities have been afforded the highest priority use status.  It can be anticipated that such agricultural uses and activities may now or in the future be conducted on property included in the agriculture protection area.  The use and enjoyment of this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or inconvenience which may result from such normal agricultural uses and activities."
(3) For any new subdivision development located in whole or in part within 1,000 feet of the boundary of an industrial protection area created under Chapter 81, Part 2, Proposal and Approval of Protection Areas, the owner of the development shall provide notice on any plat filed with the county recorder the following notice:"Industrial Protection AreaThis property is located in the vicinity of an established industrial protection area in which normal industrial uses and activities have been afforded the highest priority use status.  It can be anticipated that such industrial uses and activities may now or in the future be conducted on property included in the industrial protection area.  The use and enjoyment of this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or inconvenience which may result from such normal industrial uses and activities."
(4) For any new subdivision development located in whole or in part within 1,000 feet of the boundary of a critical infrastructure materials protection area created under Chapter 81, Part 2, Proposal and Approval of Protection Areas, the owner of the development shall provide notice on any plat filed with the county recorder the following notice:"Critical Infrastructure Materials Protection AreaThis property is located in the vicinity of an established critical infrastructure materials protection area in which critical infrastructure materials operations have been afforded the highest priority use status. It can be anticipated that such operations may now or in the future be conducted on property included in the critical infrastructure materials protection area. The use and enjoyment of this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or inconvenience which may result from such normal critical infrastructure materials operations."
(5) For any new subdivision development located in whole or in part within 1,000 feet of the boundary of a mining protection area created under Chapter 81, Part 2, Proposal and Approval of Protection Areas, the owner of the development shall provide notice on any plat filed with the county recorder the following notice:"This property is located within the vicinity of an established mining protection area in which normal mining uses and activities have been afforded the highest priority use status.  It can be anticipated that the mining uses and activities may now or in the future be conducted on property included in the mining protection area.  The use and enjoyment of this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or inconvenience that may result from the normal mining uses and activities."
