                               RIVERTON CITY YOUTH COUNCIL



2.130.010: CREATION AND PURPOSE:
There is hereby created a Youth Council. The Youth Council is created as an advisory and
supportive body to the Mayor, and subject to the immediate direction and supervision of the City
Manager or designee. The Youth Council is hereby directed to assist in the advancement of the
following purposes:
 (1) To promote and provide an opportunity for the youth of the city to acquire a greater
knowledge of, and appreciation for, the political system of local government through activities,
services, and participation in local government.
 (2) To obtain information and assistance from city youth regarding planning and
implementation of social, educational, cultural and recreational activities for youth in the city
which assist in the advancement of the purposes found in this section.
 (3) To plan and implement activities of service to the community of the city, as well as accept
and act upon foreign proposals to do acts of community service if approved by the City Manager
or designee.
 (4) To act at all times within budgetary constraints of the Riverton City Council and in
accordance with the programs and events approved by the City Manager or designee.
(5) To meet approximately twice a month in a regular Youth Council meetings while school is in
session, holding additional meetings when necessary. All meeting schedules shall be approved
annually by the City Manager or designee.


2.130.020: SUPPORT AND OVERSIGHT OF YOUTH COUNCIL:
The Mayor may appoint the following individuals, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor,
to support and supervise the daily affairs of the Youth Council:
(1) City Support Staff: The City Manager or designee shall provide the Youth Council with such
administrative staff support and advisors as he or she deems necessary to assist the Youth
Council in carrying out its duties and responsibilities.
 (2) Youth Council Advisors: The City Manager or designee may appoint one or more residents
of Riverton City who are not city employees, to serve on a voluntary basis as Youth Council
advisors. Youth Council advisors may be paid a stipend for attendance at meetings in
accordance with the annual meeting schedule of the Youth Council.
(3) The City Manager or designee create and implement protocols intended to protect the
safety of Youth Council members, in their interactions with city staff and volunteers. Said
protocols shall address, without limitation, maintaining transparency in communication and
interaction between Youth Council members, staff, and volunteers.




                                            Page 1 of 3
2.130.030: SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT:
(1) The Youth Council shall consist of a minimum of ten (10) and a maximum of fifty (50)
members to include, but not be limited to, a youth mayor, five (5) youth city council members, a
youth council chair, a youth council vice chair, a youth city recorder, and a youth city historian.
(2) The positions of youth council chair and vice chair, youth mayor, youth city recorder, and
youth city historian shall be determined by the election process. The general election shall occur
annually during the first regular Youth Council meeting in August. Voters may have only one
ballot and may vote only one at a time to elect nominees identified during first regular Youth
Council meeting in August. The nomination process shall require one Youth Council member to
advance the name of a nominee, and a second from another member. Votes will be counted
immediately and the results will be announced by the City Manager or designated
representative at that same meeting. The newly elected positions will take office during the first
regular Youth Council meeting, to be held in September of each year.
(3) The Youth Council and youth mayor may create subcommittees to accomplish their
purposes.
(4) Members of the Youth Council are required to be residents of the city and be in good
standing academically and with regard to citizenship as determined by their school. Youth who
are residents of the city who are homeschooled are also eligible for selection to the Youth
Council.


2.130.040: TERM; REMOVAL; VACANCY:
(1) Subject to subsections 2.130.050 A and B of this chapter, and excepting appointment by
reason of vacancy due to removal or resignation, the term of appointment for a member of the
Youth Council shall be one year, beginning in September of the year he or she is elected.
(2) A member of the Youth Council may be removed with advice and consent of the City
Council for, among other things, excessive, unexcused absences or not maintaining an
attendance record of eighty percent (80%) over three months in office.
(3) Any vacancy occurring on the Youth Council, either by removal or by resignation, shall be
filled by the Youth Council coordinator with advice and consent of the City Council. The new
member filling the vacancy shall have a term to end at the same time as the current Youth
Council members.


2.130.050: OFFICERS:
The executive officers of the Youth Council shall be elected annually, and shall serve terms in
office which begin on the first day of September and end on the last day of August of each year.
The Youth Council officers shall consist as follows:
(1) The Youth Mayor shall be a high school senior and will serve as the chief executive officer
of the Youth Council.



                                            Page 2 of 3
(2) The Youth City Council Chair And Vice Chair shall serve as leadership for meeting the
objectives of the Youth Council and may be high school juniors or seniors.
(3) The Youth City Recorder shall serve as the secretary of the Youth Council and record all
proceedings of the Youth Council meetings and document decisions made during such
meetings.
(4) Youth City Historian: shall collect and preserve records of meetings and events attended by
the Youth Council. The Youth City Historian shall collect photos of all Youth Council events.
(5) Other Officers deemed necessary by the youth mayor, youth city council chair and vice
chair, youth city recorder, and youth city historian shall be appointed annually by the unanimous
consent of the youth mayor, youth city council chair and vice chair, youth city recorder, and
youth city historian and shall function as directed. The youth council shall not elect or appoint
other officers to represent or carry out the objectives of a judicial branch.


2.130.060: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The Youth Council shall operate in accordance with "Robert's Rules Of Order" unless the Youth
Council develops rules of procedure that are approved by the Youth Council advisor.


2.130.070: OPERATIONS:
As allowed by this chapter and other applicable law, and with the prior approval of the City
Council, the Youth Council may:
(1) Take opportunities to acquire a greater knowledge of, and appreciation for, the political
system of local government, through completion of planned projects and active participation in
local government.
(2) Inform city government officials regarding planning and implementing of social, educational,
cultural and recreational activities for youth.
(3) The Youth Council shall not have authority to bind the city or impose any condition on the
city or its citizens. The Youth Council shall not solicit or collect sponsorships or charitable
donations unless first approved by the City Manager or designee.




                                           Page 3 of 3
