                               RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
                                ORDINANCE NO. 25-19

 AN ORDINANCE GRANTING AN ELECTRIC UTILITY FRANCHISE AND
   GENERAL UTILITY EASEMENT TO ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER

        WHEREAS, Rocky Mountain Power, is a regulated public utility that provides
electric power and energy to the citizens of Riverton City (the “City”) and other
surrounding areas;

        WHEREAS, providing electrical power and energy requires the installation,
operation and maintenance of power poles and other related facilities to be located
within the public ways of the City;

       WHEREAS, the City, pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-21
has the authority to regulate power line facilities within public ways and to grant to
Rocky Mountain Power a general utility easement for the use thereof;

      WHEREAS, the City desires to set forth the terms and conditions by which
Rocky Mountain Power shall use the public ways of the City;

        NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City:

        SECTION 1. Grant of Franchise and General Utility Easement. The City
hereby grants to Rocky Mountain Power the right, privilege and authority to construct,
maintain, operate, upgrade, and relocate its electrical distribution and transmission lines
and related appurtenances, including underground conduits and structures, poles,
towers, wires, guy anchors, vaults, transformers, transmission lines, and
communication lines (collectively referred to herein as “Electric Facilities”) in, under,
along, over and across the present and future streets, alleys, and rights-of-way, not
including City parks, buildings or other spaces not associated with City-owned rights-
of-way (collectively referred to herein as “Public Ways”) within the City, for the
purpose of supplying and transmitting electric power and energy to the inhabitants of
the City and persons and corporations beyond the limits thereof.

        SECTION 2. Term.

        2.1     Subject to the conditions of this Section 2, the first term of this Franchise
and General Utility Easement shall be for a period of ten (10) years from the effective
date of this agreement. This initial term will be automatically extended thereafter on a
year to year basis unless either party provides written notice to the other party, at least
120 days before the end of the term, of its intent to terminate this agreement and the
franchise. After such notice, the parties may negotiate for a renewal agreement, if
desired.

        2.2       In no case will the initial term last longer than 50 years. Before the
expiration of 50 years from the effective date of this agreement, the parties must execute
a renewal agreement or the franchise will terminate.




                                                1
        2.3      If, during the term of this agreement, including any extension, the City
enacts an ordinance governing franchises, or if any other applicable law changes, then
the County may notify Rocky Mountain Power of the terms of the new law and may
propose an amended franchise agreement that conforms to the new law. If, by 120 days
after receipt of the proposed amended agreement, Rocky Mountain Power has not
executed a mutually agreeable amended franchise agreement that conforms to the new
law, then the City may, at its sole option, terminate this agreement, thereby terminating
the franchise.

        SECTION 3. Acceptance by Company. Within sixty (60) days after the
passage of this ordinance by the City, Rocky Mountain Power shall file an unqualified
written acceptance thereof, with the City Recorder otherwise the ordinance and the
rights granted herein shall be null and void.

        SECTION 4. Non-Exclusive Franchise. The right to use and occupy the
Public Ways of the City shall be nonexclusive and the City reserves the right to use the
Public Ways for itself or any other entity that provides service to City residences;
provided, however, that such use shall not unreasonably interfere with Rocky
Mountain Power’s Electric Facilities or Rocky Mountain Power’s rights as granted
herein.

        SECTION 5. City Regulatory Authority. In addition to the provision herein
contained, the City reserves the right to adopt such additional ordinances and
regulations as may be deemed necessary in the exercise of its police power for the
protection of the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and their properties or exercise
any other rights, powers, or duties required or authorized, under the Constitution of the
State of Utah, the laws of Utah or City Ordinance.

        SECTION 6. Indemnification. The City shall in no way be liable or
responsible for any loss or damage to property or any injury to, or death, of any person
that may occur in the construction, operation or maintenance by Rocky Mountain Power
of its Electric Facilities. Rocky Mountain Power shall indemnify, defend and hold the
City harmless from and against claims, demands, liens and all liability or damage of
whatsoever kind on account of Rocky Mountain Power’s use of the Public Ways within
the City, and shall pay the costs of defense plus reasonable attorneys' fees for any claim,
demand or lien brought thereunder. The City shall: (a) give prompt written notice to
Rocky Mountain Power of any claim, demand or lien with respect to which the City
seeks indemnification hereunder; and (b) permit Rocky Mountain Power to assume the
defense of such claim, demand, or lien. If such defense is not assumed by Rocky
Mountain Power, Rocky Mountain Power shall not be subject to liability for any
settlement made without its consent. Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the
contrary, Rocky Mountain Power shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold
the City harmless to the extent any claim, demand or lien arises out of or in connection
with any negligent or willful act or failure to act of the City or any of its officers or
employees.

        SECTION 7. Annexation.

        7.1      Extension of City Limits. Upon the annexation of any territory to the
City, the rights granted herein shall extend to the annexed territory to the extent the City

                                                2
    has such authority. All Electrical Facilities owned, maintained, or operated by Rocky
    Mountain Power located within any public ways of the annexed territory shall thereafter
    be subject to all of the terms hereof.

            7.2     Notice of Annexation. When any territory is approved for annexation
    to the City, the City shall, not later than ten (10) working days after passage of an
    ordinance approving the proposed annexation, provide by certified mail to Rocky
    Mountain Power: (a) each site address to be annexed as recorded on county assessment
    and tax rolls; (b) a legal description of the proposed boundary change; and (c) a copy
    of the City’s ordinance approving the proposed annexation. The notice shall be mailed
    to:

                    Rocky Mountain Power Customer
                    Contact Center Attn: Annexations
                    P.O. Box 400
                    Portland, Oregon 97207-0400

With a copy to:

                    Rocky Mountain Power
                    Attn: Office of the General Counsel
                    1407 West North Temple, Room 320
                    Salt Lake City, Utah 84116

              SECTION 8. Plan, Design, Construction and Installation of Company
Facilities.

            8.1     All Electrical Facilities installed or used under authority of this
    Franchise shall be used, constructed and maintained in accordance with applicable
    federal, state and city laws, codes and regulations.

            8.2    Except in the case of an emergency, Rocky Mountain Power shall, prior
    to commencing new construction or major reconstruction work in the Public Ways,
    apply for any permit from the City as may be required by the City’s ordinances, which
    permit shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. Rocky Mountain
    Power will abide by all applicable ordinances and all reasonable rules, regulations and
    requirements of the City, and the City may inspect the manner of such work and require
    remedies as may be reasonably necessary to assure compliance. Notwithstanding the
    foregoing, Rocky Mountain Power shall not be obligated to obtain a permit to perform
    emergency repairs. After construction is complete, Rocky Mountain Power shall
    provide the City with accurate copies of as-built plans and maps showing the Electrical
    Facilities.

            8.3    All Electric Facilities shall be located so as to cause minimum
    interference with the Public Ways of the City and shall be constructed, installed,
    maintained, cleared of vegetation, renovated or replaced in accordance with applicable
    rules, ordinances and regulations of the City.

          8.4     If, during the course of work on its Electrical Facilities, Rocky Mountain
    Power causes damage to or alters the Public Way or public property, Rocky Mountain

                                                  3
Power shall (at its own cost and expense and in a manner reasonably approved by the
City) replace and restore it in as good a condition as existed before the work
commenced.

       8.5    In addition to the installation of underground electric distribution lines
as provided by applicable state law and regulations, Rocky Mountain Power shall, upon
payment of all charges provided in its tariffs or their equivalent, place newly
constructed electric distribution lines underground as may be required by City
ordinance.

        8.6     The City shall have the right without cost to use all poles and suitable
overhead structures owned by Rocky Mountain Power within Public Ways for City
wires used in connection with its fire alarms, police signal systems, or other public
safety communication lines used for governmental purposes; provided, however, any
such uses shall be for activities owned, operated or used by the City for a public purpose
and shall not include the provision of CATV, internet, or similar services to the public.
Provided further, that Rocky Mountain Power shall assume no liability nor shall it incur,
directly or indirectly, any additional expense in connection therewith, and the use of
said poles and structures by the City shall be in such a manner as to prevent safety
hazards or interferences with Rocky Mountain Power’s use of same. Nothing herein
shall be construed to require Rocky Mountain Power to increase pole size, or alter
the
manner in which Rocky Mountain Power attaches its equipment to poles, or alter the
manner in which it operates and maintains its Electric Facilities. City attachments shall
be installed and maintained in accordance with the reasonable requirements of Rocky
Mountain Power and the current edition of the National Electrical Safety Code
pertaining to such construction. Further, City attachments shall be attached or installed
only after written approval by Rocky Mountain Power in conjunction with Rocky
Mountain Power’s standard pole attachment application process. Rocky Mountain
Power shall have the right to inspect, at the City’s expense, such attachments to ensure
compliance with this Section 8.6 and to require the City to remedy any defective
attachments.

         8.7    Rocky Mountain Power shall have the right to excavate the Public Rights
of Ways subject to reasonable conditions and requirements of the City. Before
installing new underground conduits or replacing existing underground conduits,
Rocky Mountain Power shall first notify the City of such work by written notice and
shall allow the City, at its own expense, (to include a pro rata share of the trenching
costs), to share the trench of Rocky Mountain Power to lay its own conduit therein,
provided that such action by the City will not unreasonably interfere with Rocky
Mountain Power’s Electrical Facilities or delay project completion.

       8.8     Before commencing any street improvements or other work within a
Public Way that may affect Rocky Mountain Power’s Electric Facilities, the City shall
give written notice to Rocky Mountain Power.

      SECTION 9. Relocations of Electric Facilities.

        9.1    The City reserves the right to require Rocky Mountain Power to relocate
its Electric Facilities within the Public Ways in the interest of public convenience,

                                               4
necessity, health, safety or welfare at no cost to the City. Within a reasonable period of
time after written notice, Rocky Mountain Power shall promptly commence the
relocation of its Electrical Facilities. Before requiring a relocation of Electric Facilities,
the City shall, with the assistance and consent of Rocky Mountain Power, identify a
reasonable alignment for the relocated Electric Facilities within the Public Ways of the
City. The City shall assign or otherwise transfer to Company all right it may have to
recover the cost for the relocation work and shall support the efforts of Rocky Mountain
Power to obtain reimbursement.

        9.2      Rocky Mountain Power shall not be obligated to pay the cost of any
relocation that is required or made a condition of a private development. If the removal
or relocation of facilities is caused by an identifiable development of property in the
vicinity of a private development occurring within the territorial jurisdiction of Riverton
City, or if relocation is made for the convenience of a customer, Rocky Mountain Power
may charge the expense of removal or relocation to the developer or customer. For
example, Rocky Mountain Power shall not be required to pay relocation costs in
connection with a road widening or realignment where the road project is made a
condition of or caused by an identifiable private development project which is approved
by Riverton City.

       SECTION 10. Subdivision Plat Notification. Before the City approves any
new subdivision and before recordation of the plat, the City shall obtain Rocky
Mountain Power’s approval of Electrical Facilities, including underground facilities
to be installed by the developer, and associated rights of way depicted on the plat.
A copy or original of the plat shall be mailed or otherwise delivered for approval to
Rocky Mountain Power:

            Rocky Mountain Power
            Attn: Estimating Department
            Local Address: 12840 PONY EXPRESS RD DRAPER, UT 84020

        Section 11. Vegetation Management. Rocky Mountain Power or its contractor
may prune all trees and vegetation which overhang the Public Ways, whether such trees
or vegetation originate within or outside the Public Ways, to prevent the branches, limbs
or other part of such trees or vegetation from interfering with Rocky Mountain Power’s
Distribution or Transmission Electrical Facilities. Such work shall comply with the
American National Standard for Tree Care Operation (ANSI A300) and be conducted
under the direction of an arborist certified with the International Society of
Arboriculture. Rocky Mountain Power may also cut down and remove any tree located
in the Public Ways which poses a risk to public safety or service reliability. A growth
inhibitor treatment may be used for trees and vegetation species that are fast-growing.
Trees planted in the Public Ways under or near existing Rocky Mountain Power’s
Distribution or Transmission Electrical Facilities should not interfere with such
Electrical Facilities at the tree’s full maturity height. For guidance on tree species
selection,      see      Rocky       Mountain       Power’s      planting      guidelines
www.Rockymountainpower.net/trees.

        SECTION 12. Renewal. At least 120 days prior to the expiration of this
Franchise, Rocky Mountain Power and the City either shall agree to extend the term of
this Franchise for a mutually acceptable period of time or the parties shall use best faith

                                                 5
efforts to renegotiate a replacement Franchise. Rocky Mountain Power shall have the
continued right to use the Public Ways of the City as set forth herein in the event an
extension or replacement Franchise is not entered into upon expiration of this Franchise.

        SECTION 13. No Waiver. Neither the City nor Rocky Mountain Power shall
be excused from complying with any of the terms and conditions of this Franchise by
any failure of the other, or any of its officers, employees, or agents, upon any one or
more occasions to insist upon or to seek compliance with any such terms and
conditions.

         SECTION 14. Transfer of Franchise. Rocky Mountain Power shall not
transfer or assign any rights under this Franchise to another entity, except transfers and
assignments by operation of law, or to affiliates, parents or subsidiaries of Rocky
Mountain Power which assume all of Rocky Mountain Power’s obligations hereunder,
unless the City shall first give its approval in writing, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; provided, however, Rocky Mountain
Power may assign, mortgage. pledge, hypothecate or otherwise transfer without consent
its interest in this Franchise to any financing entity, or agent on behalf of any financing
entity to whom Rocky Mountain Power (1) has obligations for borrowed money or in
respect of guaranties thereof, (ii) has obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes
or similar instruments, or (iii) has obligations under or with respect to letters of credit,
bankers acceptances and similar facilities or in respect of guaranties thereof.
         SECTION 15. Amendment. At any time during the term of this Franchise,
the City through its City Council, or Rocky Mountain Power may propose amendments
to this Franchise by giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party of the
proposed amendment(s) desired, and both parties thereafter, through their designated
representatives, will, within a reasonable time, negotiate in good faith in an effort to
agree upon mutually satisfactory amendment(s). No amendment or amendments to this
Franchise shall be effective until mutually agreed upon by the City and Rocky Mountain
Power and formally adopted as an ordinance amendment, which is accepted in writing
by Rocky Mountain Power.

        SECTION 16. Notices. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from
Rocky Mountain Power to the City pursuant to or concerning this Franchise shall be
delivered to the City Recorder's Office. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices
from the City to Rocky Mountain Power pursuant to or concerning this Franchise shall
be delivered to the Regional Business Management Director, Rocky Mountain Power,
852 East 1400 North, Shelley, Idaho, 83274, and such other office as Rocky Mountain
Power may advise the City of by written notice.

        SECTION 17. Severability. If any section, sentence, paragraph, term or
provision hereof is for any reason determined to be illegal, invalid, or superseded by
other lawful authority including any state or federal regulatory authority having
jurisdiction thereof or unconstitutional, illegal or invalid by any court of common
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent
provision and such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other
section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision hereof, all of which will remain in full
force and effect for the term of the Franchise or any renewal or renewals thereof.



                                                6
            SECTION 18. Waiver of Jury Trial. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
   each of the parties hereto waives any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of
   litigation directly or indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this
   agreement. Each party further waives any right to consolidate any action in which a
   jury trial has been waived with any other action in which a jury trial cannot be or has
   not been waived.


       PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 3rd day
of June, 2025 by the following vote:
                                     YES NO
       Councilmember Tish Buroker    ____ ____
       Councilmember Spencer Haymond ____ ____
       Councilmember Tawnee McCay    ____ ____
       Councilmember Troy McDougal   ____ ____
       Councilmember Andy Pierucci   ____ ____

                                            RIVERTON CITY
      [SEAL]

ATTEST:                                     __________________________________
                                            Trent Staggs, Mayor

__________________________________
Jamie Larsen, Recorder




                                                 7
                                CERTIFICATE OF POSTING

       I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby

Certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 25-19 was adopted by the Riverton City Council

on the 3rd day of June 2025 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following

locations:



       1. City Hall

       2. Public Notice Website

       Dated this 3rd day of June 2025.




                                                    _______________________________
                                                    Jamie Larsen, Recorder
              [S E A L]




                                                8
