                             MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:           Planning Department
Date:           April 20, 2021
Subject:        Ordinance 21-11,Text Change, Amendment to 18.225.050, Agricultural
                Structures, Allowing “Greenhouses” As Qualifying Agricultural Structures,
                Amendment Proposed by Riverton City.



On March 25, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider this text
change. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted
to recommend the following motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance #21-11, amending Section 18.225.050, Agricultural
Structures, of the Riverton City Code to allow structures used exclusively for growing of plants
to qualify as “agricultural structures”, as shown in Exhibit “A”.


Background

Riverton City’s Accessory Structures ordinance currently has a section related to buildings used
exclusively for agriculture. That section allows for exterior materials and building standards more
suitable to that use. The section reads as follows;

18.225.050 Agricultural       structures.(1) Agricultural      Structures.   Accessory     structures
constructed on parcels of at least one-half acre and used exclusively for agricultural use, defined
as exclusively for the storage of farm animals and/or feed, as defined by ordinance, or of
equipment used for commercial agricultural production on parcels of at least 20 acres, shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter except as follows:
       (a) Agricultural structures must be designed such that the primary function of the structure
       is the keeping of farm animals and/or feed.
       (b) Agricultural structures shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from side and rear
       property lines, and, if located on a corner lot, shall comply with standard corner lot setback
       requirements.
       (c) Agricultural structures may not be located within 40 feet of any residential dwelling.
       (d) Maximum height of agricultural structures shall be 35 feet.
       (e) Agricultural structures may, on approval from the planning department, utilize such
       exterior building materials that are appropriate to the use, while complementary to the
       main dwelling and to the surrounding community.

This section defines agricultural structures to be buildings used exclusively for animals and/or
feed. The City has received several inquiries regarding greenhouses, structures used to grow
Report by: JL
4/15/2021
plants and for indoor gardens. Under the current ordinance, a greenhouse would not meet the
criteria as an “agricultural structure”, and so would have to meet exterior material and architectural
standards that would prohibit the opaque material typically used in a greenhouse. Provided the
structure is used exclusively for growing of plants, staff is proposing that language be included in
the Agricultural Structures section to allow for a greenhouse. The proposed amendment would
read:

18.225.050 Agricultural        structures.(1) Agricultural      Structures.   Accessory     structures
constructed on parcels of at least one-half acre and used exclusively for agricultural use, defined
as exclusively for the growing of plants (greenhouses), the storage of farm animals and/or feed,
as defined by ordinance, or of equipment used for commercial agricultural production on parcels
of at least 20 acres. Agricultural structures shall comply with the requirements of this chapter
except as follows:
        (a) Agricultural structures for animals must be designed such that the primary function of
        the structure is the keeping of farm animals and/or feed. Structures for the growing of
        plants shall be designed exclusively for that use, including exterior materials.
        (b) Agricultural structures shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from side and rear
        property lines, and, if located on a corner lot, shall comply with standard corner lot setback
        requirements.
        (c) Agricultural structures may not be located within 40 feet of any residential dwelling.
        (d) Maximum height of agricultural structures shall be 35 feet, with the exception of
        greenhouses, which may not exceed 20 feet in height.
        (e) Agricultural structures may, on approval from the planning department, utilize such
        exterior building materials that are appropriate to the use, while complementary to the
        main dwelling and to the surrounding community. Greenhouses must utilize opaque or
        transparent material designed to allow increased sunlight as the primary exterior material,
        including roofing material.
        (f) Agricultural structures may not include an accessory dwelling unit. Greenhouses may
        not include divided rooms, a second story or attic, lofts or other similar storage space.

This amendment would allow use of a greenhouse on property of at least ½ acre, with sufficient
controls in place to mitigate potential impacts. The Planning Commission recommended approval
of the amendment, and staff concurs with that recommendation.




Report by: JL
4/15/2021
