                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            May 20, 2025
Subject:         Ordinance 25-12 – Text Amendment, Proposed Updates to Riverton City’s
                 Commercial Architectural Standards, Amendments Proposed by Riverton City


On March 27, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this item. Minutes
from that meeting, and previous discussions on this item by the Commission, are included below.
The Commission voted to recommend approval, with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance #25-12, amending the City’s Commercial Architectural
Standards in Sections 18.65.060, 18.70.060, 18.75.050, 18.80.060, 18.85.060, 18.95.040,
18.100.060, and 18.215.030 of the Riverton City Code as shown in Exhibit “A”.


Background

In response to feedback received at previous meetings, staff has incorporated the
following amendments into the proposed language. Additional information will be
presented at the hearing.
    •    The language requiring “equal design consideration” on all sides of a building has
         been amended to read “All sides of a building that are open to public view
         (including views from adjacent residential dwellings or potential location of
         residential dwellings) shall receive equal consistent architectural design
         consideration as the building front”.
    •    The limitation to no more than 30% glass has been removed. Glass is listed as an
         allowed exterior material, and language has been added allowing the City to
         exclude glass used in windows from the exterior materials count.
    •    The language requiring precast cement walls to have masonry covering or pattern
         has been amended to allow exceptions on side and rear walls in the C-R, PCC,
         and M-1 zones as determined by the City.
    •    Language has been added the Commercial Downtown zone stating that for
         properties/projects between 1300 & 1830 W, from 12500 S to 12920 S, brick is a
         required architectural element

The amended language will be added into each commercial zone as adopted. For clarity,
only the Architectural Standards section of the Commercial Downtown zone has been
included. The full amended text for each section will be amended according to Council’s
final action.

Report by: TJP
5/16/2025
Original Report
Riverton City has initiated a significant update to its commercial architectural standards for the
exterior of commercial buildings within the City. The process of updating the standards has
involved multiple discussions with Planning Commission and City Council. This public hearing
is to review and recommend amendments to the Commercial architectural standards.

These standards address the exterior materials and visual elements of commercial buildings,
and guide the development, review and approval process for proposed commercial projects in
the City.

Staff received feedback from the Commission and direction from the City Council on the
proposed amendments before preparing the final draft. The intent of the update is to provide
broader standards in a simplified code text while preserving the existing character of Riverton
City’s commercial areas. Generally speaking, the proposed updated language features fewer
rigid “checkbox” type standards, with more discretion given to the Land Use Authority (typically
the Planning Commission) to allow for variation in architectural styles and materials with
requirements for consistency to nearby existing commercial buildings.

The proposed amendments would cover all six commercial zones, the manufacturing zone, and
“Churches, religious, cultural, public and quasi-public uses” developed in Residential Zones
under City Code 18.215.030, and the architectural standards would be the same for all these
zones.

The attachments below include a copy of the proposed architectural standards for the
Commercial Downtown Zone as a typical for all zones. The changes will be reflected
throughout the commercial zones and code sections.

The second attachment shows all the deletions and insertions to the existing city code. This
complete list of changes is required for City Council to pass an ordinance and for our codifier to
make the correct changes to the published City Code.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of the proposed amendment. During the
review and drafting process, staff solicited and received feedback from architects for recent
commercial projects in the City, and the proposed language reflects that feedback.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

    1. Commercial Standards - Draft Amended showing C-D zone.




Report by: TJP
5/16/2025
Commercial Downtown
18.65.060 Architectural standards.
The following standards are applicable to all new or amended development in the C-D Zone
including but not limited to primary and accessory structures, accent features, and architectural
art.
   (1) Four-sided architecture. All sides of a building that are open to public view (including
       views from adjacent residential dwellings or potential location of residential dwellings) shall
       receive equal consistent architectural design consideration as the building front.

   (2) Building Height. Buildings shall not exceed 50 feet in height, but shall not exceed 35 feet in
       height where any portion of the building is within 100 feet of a residential zone. Height is
       measured from the primary finished floor to the highest point of any roof peak, parapet wall
       or to the top of any architectural feature. Rooftop mechanical equipment, screens, safety
       railings, and other mechanical elements are not included in building height.
   (3) Bulk. Commercial buildings shall be designed with horizontal architectural wall variations
       at least every 30 to 50 feet in linear width, depending on the size of the project. A horizontal
       architectural wall variation may include the following:
            a. Primary Material Change.
            b. A horizontal shift of at least 18-inches perpendicular to the primary plane.

   (4) Roofline. Commercial buildings shall be designed with vertical height variations of the
       roofline at least every 50 feet. A vertical height variation of the roofline may include the
       following:
           a. Changes in vertical height by at least 18-inches change in elevation.
           b. Solid parapet walls, subject to the Horizontal variation requirements listed above.
           c. Variation in the rooflines by use of dormer windows, overhangs, arches, stepped
                roofs, gables or other similar devices.
   (5) Exterior Building Materials and Colors.
           a. Exterior Building Materials shall be considered any materials that make up the
                exterior of the building and shall be limited to no more than four five (45) and no less
                than two (2) types of materials per building.
                      1. For properties/projects located from 1830 West to 1300 West, and
                          between 12500 South and 12930 South zoned C-D, brick, with color and
                          type approved by the City, shall be one of the required building materials.
           b. Color of exterior building materials (excluding accent colors) shall be limited to no
                more than five (5)four and no less than two (2) major colors per development.
           c. Bright colors, such as neon or fluorescent colors, bright orange or yellow, and
                primary colors, are only permitted as accent colors as determined by the Land Use
                Authority.
           d. No more than 75 percent of any building side shall consist of one material or color.
           e. The roof shall not be considered a material or color.
           e.f. Glass is considered an Exterior Building Material, but not a color. Glass used in
                windows may be excluded from the limitation on number of exterior materials as
                found in Item 5.a. above at the discretion of the City. However, no more that 30
                percent of any building side may be glass.
       f.   Architectural metal may be used on exterior building elevations, as an accent not to
            exceed more than 10% of any building side.

(6) Prohibited Materials
       a. Patterned stucco as a masonry substitute.
       b. Wood as a primary exterior finish material.
       c. Vinyl or aluminum siding.
       d. Uncolored and/or unfinished CMU block except as an accent material.
       e. Corrugated metal or similar material, and “rusted’ or otherwise distressed look
            metal, except where it is approved as an accent.
       f. Precast cement walls for developments are only acceptable if covered by brick,
            brick veneer, approved stone/rock or an approved masonry component. Such types
            of walls are also acceptable where allowed/required masonry patterns are
            integrated into the exterior side of the wall. Exceptions to this may be allowed by
            the City on side or rear walls in the Commercial Regional, Planned Commercial
            Center, and Light Industrial Zones.
       g. Wood, including wood shingles, are not allowed as a roofing material.
(7) Cohesion / Consistency. New or renovated commercial buildings shall include elements of
    cohesion and consistency with the adjacent and surrounding commercial building as
    determined by the Land Use Authority. A review by the Land Use Authority may include a
    review of the approvals and requirements of the original commercial building or original
    commercial center.
       a. In an existing center or development for which a site plan was previously approved,
          a new or renovated commercial building plan shall include and identify at least two
          (2) major elements of consistency with the surrounding approved center, including
          primary materials and architectural features.
       b. New or renovated standalone buildings (not previously part of an approved center
          or development) shall include and identify at least one (1) major element of
          consistency with adjacent and surrounding commercial buildings
(8) Mechanical Equipment.
       a. All mechanical equipment shall be located or screened so as to shield visibility of
          such equipment. Screening methods and materials must be approved by the land
          use authority as part of Site Plan approval.
       b. Wing walls, screens, or other enclosures shall be integrated into the building and
          landscaping of the site, whether located on the ground or roof.
       c. Rooftops of buildings shall be free of any mechanical equipment unless completely
          screened from all horizontal points of view, as seen from 6-ft high at the property
          lines, or as otherwise determined by the Land Use Authority.
       d. Screening materials shall conform to the color scheme and materials of the primary
          building.
       e. All attached exterior utility boxes and equipment, roof drains, conduit and piping,
          maintenance stairs and ladders, and other similar elements shall be painted or
          otherwise treated to be consistent with underlying/adjacent material colors.
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                          3
March 27, 2025


Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE
Application PLZ-25-2008, “THE WEEKEND PLACE,” an Application for a Conditional
Use Permit for a Home Occupation to be located at 3009 West Sanborn, with the
following conditions:

      1.    The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
            applicable Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, specifically the City
            Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
            Codes.

      2.    Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.    Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health
            Department approvals.

      4.    Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
            applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
            Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.    The applicant may care for up to three (3) clients per day.

      6.    One full-time, non-resident employee is permitted. Employees must use
            off-street parking.

      7.    Applicant or employee must be present in the home when clients are
            there.

      8.    The applicant may provide 24-hour care, amending the qualification
            relating to business hours.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      B.    “ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS”, PLZ-24-5007, RIVERTON CITY IS
            PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE
            FOR ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS OF COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS
            FOUND IN SECTIONS 18.65.060, 18.70.060, 18.75.50, 18.80.060,
            18.85.060, 19.95.040, 18.100.060, AND 18.215.030 OF RIVERTON CITY
            CODE. THIS ITEM WAS CONTINUED FROM THE MARCH 13, 2025 PC
            MEETING.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
March 27, 2025


City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and indicated that the following
changes had been made in response to recommendations made at the last Planning
Commission meeting:

       1.     Exterior Building materials count increased from four to five.

       2.     Exterior Colors count increased from four to five.

       3.     All references to “City” were changed to “Land Use Authority” per City Attorney.

       4.     The requirement for three feet of wainscot was removed.

       5.     Glass was added as an exterior building material and limited to 30% of any
              building side.

       6.     Architectural metal accents were clarified to not exceed 10% of a building side.

Mr. Prestwich stated that with the above changes, Burger King would have met all
requirements. The House of Vapes could be denied based on two criteria. The Utah
18Collective school would probably meet requirements for exterior building materials and
could likely be approved as-is. The Newman office building could also be approved based
on the new criteria.

In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Prestwich clarified that CMU
stands for Concrete Masonry Unit, which is usually a split-faced concrete block. It is
currently only allowed in a few places in the City, and uncolored or unfinished CMU would
be prohibited by the new standards.

Commissioner Knudsen stated that the American First Credit Union building has more than
30% glass, and the Commissioners agreed that they liked that look. He suggested that the
allowed percentage of glass be increased. He also asked for clarification on the architectural
metal accents. Mr. Prestwich stated that if all limitations on glass were removed, a building
could be 75% glass. The specific percentage allowed was at the discretion of the Planning
Commission and City Council.

In response to a comment by Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich stated that the American First Credit
Union has approximately 30% glass; the building also has 30% wainscot, so the glass does
not go all the way to the ground. He noted that the open feel is very popular on the front
and some sides of buildings. Commissioner Matheson was in favor of increasing the
percentage to 50%.

Commissioner Cluff asked if it was purely a visual preference or if there were other reasons
to limit the amount of glass. Mr. Prestwich stated that the previous ordinance was geared
toward maintaining a turn-of-the-century look, which included tall, narrow windows. He did
not see an issue with increasing the percentage. Commissioner Cluff was comfortable not
including a limit.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    5
March 27, 2025



Commissioner Keele was in favor of allowing up to 50%.
The Commission agreed that the maximum percentage of glass per side would be increased
to 50%.

Accent metal was discussed next and it was noted that the Commission previously
discussed removing the maximum of 10% per building side. Mr. Prestwich indicated that
metal panels that look like wood, brick, or stone are becoming more popular due to their
ease of shipping and installation, as well as flat, colored metal that is used in place of stucco.
Chair Park stated that cladding a building in metal would make it a primary material, not an
accent. Mr. Prestwich suggested moving the definition of accent metal from the Prohibited
Materials section and clarifying that metal panels made to look like other materials are not
considered accents.

Commissioner Cluff was comfortable allowing 20% accent metal. Commissioner Matheson
asked if it would be appropriate to leave it at the Planning Commission’s discretion.
Commissioner Knudsen agreed with clarifying the definition and liked the idea of leaving the
determination to the Land Use Authority. Commissioner Rushton stated that the percentage
should be clearly defined to allow Staff to better guide developers and architects. After
further discussion, it was decided that accent metal should be limited to 20% per building
side, and accent metal should be defined as “Corrugated metal or similar material, and
rusted or otherwise distressed-look metal.”

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Knudsen moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of amendments to the City’s Commercial Architectural Standards in
Sections 18.65.060, 18.70.060, 18.75.050, 18.80.060, 18.85.060, 18.95.040, 18.100.060,
and 18.215.030 of the Riverton City Code with the following changes:

       1.     Increase allowed glass coverage to a maximum of 50% of any one side.

       2.     Move the definition of “rusted metal” from prohibited to approved accent
              materials.

       3.     Increase the allowed percentage of accent metal to not exceed 20%.

Commissioner Keele seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       C.     “MULTI-FAMILY PARCEL SIZE”, PLZ-25-5004, RIVERTON CITY IS
              PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE
              FOR MULTI-FAMILY PARCEL SIZE, FOUND IN SECTIONS 18.45.050,
              18.50.050, 18.53.050, 18.55.050, 18.57.050, AND 18.60.050.
