                            MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 15, 2020
Subject:         Ordinance 20-21, Amendments to Title 18.225.030 & 040, Accessory
                 Building Height and Maximum Building Size, Amendments Proposed by
                 Riverton City



On August 13, 2020, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this
proposed text amendment, and voted to recommend approval of the amendment. A record
of motion from that meeting is attached below. The Planning Commission recommended
the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #20-21, amending Section 18.225.030 & 040,
addressing maximum height and side setbacks for accessory structures, as shown on Exhibit
“A”.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Zoning Text Change proposed by Riverton City. The Zone text
change involves two changes to Chapter 18.225 Accessory Structures. The first change is a
maximum building size. The Architectural Standards for accessory structures found in 18.225.040
already includes a maximum total size for all combined accessory structures on a property, but
does not have a maximum size on an individual accessory structure. The recommendation is that
the maximum size of individual accessory structures be 2-times the footprint of the primary
structure and that the existing standard of 25% of the rear yard also continue to apply.

The second change is a series of clarifying changes to chapter 18.225.030. The proposal
changes the order and hierarchy of the existing text, with some minor additions and subtractions
to the text to clarify setback requirements as they have been interpreted and applied by staff. The
primarily affects the distance required between accessory structures. This had been listed under
the “Side Yards” section of this code, and this led to confusion as to whether the requirement only
applied if an accessory structure was located in the side yard of a lot. The proposed change
moves that requirement into the general section of the code, clarifying that it applies to all
accessory structures regardless of placement on property.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of these amendments, and staff concurs with
that recommendation.



Report by: TJP
9/9/2020
Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Code changes for:
           a. 18.225.040 (1)                   b.18.225.030

                     Proposed Changes to Accessory Structures Ordinance

18.225.040 Architectural standards.
(1) Maximum Size. The maximum size of any accessory structure is two (2) times the size of the footprint
of the principle structure (house and attached garage), and Tthe maximum total size of all accessory
structure(s) on any parcel shall be limited to 25 percent of the rear yard area, defined as the area from the
closest point of the rear foundation to rear property line.


18.225.030 Location of accessory structures.
(1) Measurements. For the purpose of this chapter, measurements shall be from the foundation of the
accessory building to property line, or to foundation on the main dwelling.
(2) Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from the main dwelling.
(3) A minimum distance of five feet shall be maintained between accessory structures.
(4) Accessory structures may not encroach into any public utility or other easement without written
permission to encroach from all parties with rights to the easement.
(5) (4) Front Yards. All accessory structures are prohibited within any required front yard area, and no
accessory structure shall extend within 10 feet of the front plane of the main dwelling.
(6) (3) Side SetbacksYards. Side yard setbacks for accessory structures shall be as follows:
       (a) Accessory structures may have a minimum side yard setback of five feet, except as follows:
       shall be located a minimum of five feet from the side property line, except as follows:
                 (a) (i) All Accessory structures located between the main structure and the side property line
                 shall maintain the same side yard setback as required for the main structure.
                 (b) All accessory structures on corner lots shall maintain the minimum corner side yard
                 setback as required for the main dwelling.
                 (c) (ii) Accessory structures of 120 square feet or less may be located a minimum of one foot
                 from the side property lines, provided no portion of the building extends over the property line
                 and runoff is contained to the property.
                 (d) (iii) Accessory structures over 20 feet in height shall have a minimum side yard setback of
                 15 feet.
       (b) A minimum distance of five feet shall be maintained between accessory structures.
       (c) All accessory structures on corner lots shall maintain the minimum corner side yard setback as
       required for the main dwelling.



Report by: TJP
9/9/2020
       (d) Accessory structures may not encroach into any public utility or other easement without written
       permission to encroach from all parties with rights to the easement.


(7) (5) Rear SetbacksYards. Rear yard setbacks for aAccessory structures shall be as follows:
       (a) Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the rear property line, except
       as follows:
                 (a) (i) Accessory structures of 120 square feet or less shall be located a minimum of one foot
                 from the rear property line, provided no portion of the building extends over the property line
                 and runoff is contained to the property.
                 (b) (ii) Accessory structures over 20 feet in height shall have a minimum rear yard setback of
                 15 feet.
       (b) Accessory structures may not encroach into any public utility or other easement without written
       permission to encroach from all parties with rights to the easement.




Report by: TJP
9/9/2020
