                              WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
1. Purpose

        The purpose of these Water Efficiency Standards is to conserve the public's water resources
        by establishing water conservation standards for indoor plumbing fixtures and outdoor
        landscaping.

2. Applicability

        The standards contained herein shall be required for all developer/contractor installed
        residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial construction, as applicable. The
        Outdoor Landscaping Standards shall also be required for new landscaping construction
        installed by homeowners.

3. Definitions

        A. “Activity Zones” means portions of the landscape designed for recreation or function,
           such as storage areas, fire pits, vegetable gardens, and playgrounds.

        B. “Active Recreation Areas” means areas of the landscape dedicated to active play
           where Lawn may be used as the playing surface (ex. sports fields and play areas).

        C. “Central Open Shape” means an unobstructed area that functions as the focal point of
           Localscapes and is designed in a shape that is geometric in nature.

        D. “Gathering Areas” means portions of the landscape that are dedicated to congregating,
           such as patios, gazebos, decks, and other seating areas.

        E. “Hardscape” means durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, pavers,
           stone, or compacted inorganic mulch.

        F. “Lawn” means ground that is covered with grass or turf that is regularly mowed.

        G. “Localscapes®” means a landscaping approach designed to create locally adapted and
           sustainable landscapes through a basic 5-step approach (central open shape, gathering
           areas, activity zones, connecting pathways, and planting beds).

        H. “Mulch” means any material such as rock, bark, compost, wood chips or other
           materials left loose and applied to the soil.

        I.    “Park Strip” means a typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-
              curb and sidewalk.

        J.    “Paths” means designed routes between landscape areas and features.

        K. “Planting Bed” means areas of the landscape that consist of plants, such as trees,
           ornamental grasses, shrubs, perennials, and other regionally appropriate plants.

Water Conservancy Standards                                                               Page 1 of 4
        L. “Total Landscaped Area” means improved areas of the property that incorporate all of
           the completed features of the landscape. The landscape area does not include footprints
           of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways, and other non-irrigated areas
           intentionally left undeveloped.

4. Indoor Fixture Requirements

        It is recommended and encouraged, but not mandated, that all new and future construction
        and future additions, remodels, or refurbishments install plumbing fixtures that have the
        WaterSense label, including: lavatory faucets, shower heads, sink faucets, water closets
        (tank and flushometer-valve toilets), and urinals, to the extent Utah law allows
        municipalities or local districts to require these fixtures.

5. Outdoor Landscaping Standards

        All new and rehabilitated landscaping for public agency projects, private development
        projects, developer-installed landscaping in multi-family and single-family residential
        projects within the front and side yards, and homeowner provided landscape improvements
        within the front and side yards of single and two-family dwellings shall comply with the
        landscaping standards set forth in Section 6 below. It is recommended and encouraged, but
        not mandated, that rear yard landscape improvements of single and two-family dwellings
        comply with these same standards.

6. Landscaping Requirements

        A. All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the
           highest water efficiency. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used except in Lawn
           areas. Drip irrigation systems shall be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-
           end assembly, and any other appropriate components.

        B. Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope and soil
           conditions, and plant materials with similar watering needs. Lawn and Planting Beds
           shall be irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers
           shall be placed on separate irrigation valves.

        C. Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense labeled smart irrigation
           controller which automatically adjusts the frequency and/or duration of irrigation
           events in response to changing weather conditions. All controllers shall be equipped
           with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.

        D. At least 3-4 inches of Mulch, permeable to air and water, shall be used in Planting
           Beds to control weeds and improve the appearance of the landscaping.

        E. At maturity, landscapes are recommended to have enough plant material (perennials
           and shrubs) to create at least 50% living plant cover at maturity at the ground plane,
           not including tree canopies.



Water Conservancy Standards                                                                  Page 2 of 4
        F. Lawn shall not be installed in Park Strips, Paths, or on slopes greater than 25% or 4:1
           grade and be less than 8 feet wide at its narrowest point. To the extent reasonably
           practicable, Lawn shall be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes,
           etc.).

        G. In residential landscapes, the landscaping shall adhere to the following Localscapes
           requirements and shall be properly labeled on the landscape plan submitted to the City
           for review:

                  i. If size permits, the landscaped areas of the front yard and back yard shall
                     include a designed Central Open Shape created by using Lawn, Hardscape,
                     groundcover, gravel, or Mulch.

                 ii. Gathering Areas shall be constructed of Hardscape and placed outside of the
                     Central Open Shape. In a landscape without Lawn, Gathering Areas may
                     function as the Central Open Shape.

                 iii. Activity Zones shall be located outside of the Central Open Shape and shall be
                      surfaced with materials other than Lawn.

                 iv. Paths shall be made with materials that do not include Lawn, such as
                     Hardscape, Mulch, or other groundcover.

                  v. Lawn areas shall not exceed the greater of 250 square feet, or 35% of the Total
                     Landscaped Area.

                 vi. Small residential lots, where the Total Landscaped Area is less than 250 square
                     feet, and where the front yard dimensions cannot accommodate the minimum
                     8 feet wide Lawn area requirement of the Landscaping Requirements in section
                     F, are exempt from the 8 feet minimum width Lawn area requirement.

        H. In commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-family development common area
           landscapes, Lawn areas shall not exceed 20% of the Total Landscaped Area, outside
           of Active Recreation Areas.

        I.    Certain special purpose landscape areas (e.g. stormwater management areas, etc.) may
              receive exceptions from the slope limitations and other elements of the Landscaping
              Requirements (see Paragraph F, above). Applications to receive exceptions are to be
              considered on a case-by-case basis.

        J.    These outdoor standards are not intended to be in conflict with other landscaping
              requirements as defined by Utah law, including stormwater retention requirements and
              low-impact development guidelines. Notwithstanding these outdoor standards,
              whenever any requirement may be in conflict with Utah law, such conflicting
              requirements shall not apply.




Water Conservancy Standards                                                                Page 3 of 4
                                          EXHIBIT A
                                   Landscape Requirement Table


All landscape plans required by Herriman City Code § 10-23-5 shall submit a completed
Landscape Requirement Table as follows:


 Property size (acres and Sqft)
 Building footprint
 Hardscape % of Property size
 Overall Landscape sqft                           Required                Provided
 Live plant material sqft                         Required                Provided
 Trees 1 tree/500 sqft                            Required                Provided
 Trees in lawn areas                              Prohibited              Provided
 Parkstrip trees 1 per every 30’ of frontage      Required                Provided
 Lawn areas less than 8 feet wide                 Prohibited              Provided
 Lawn areas on slopes greater than 25% or a 4:1   Prohibited              Provided
 Residential
 Turf Grass provided                              Allowed <35% of the     Provided
                                                  total landscaped area
 Small residential lot exemption when total       Yes                     No
 landscaped area is < 250 sqft
 Commercial, Industrial, Institutional and        Allowed <20% of the     Provided
 multi-family                                     total landscaped area
