                            MEMORANDUM
 To:           Honorable Mayor and City Council
 From:         Planning Department
 Date:         October 21, 2025
 Subject:      Ordinance 25-24 -“Site Plan Development Standards,” Amendments and
               clarifications to Section 18.215.030 “Site Plan Development Standards”.
               Amendments proposed by Riverton City.

 On September 25, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this
 proposed code amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning
 Commission recommended approval, with the following recommended motion:

 I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 25-24, by amending the Riverton City Code
 18.215.030 “Site Plan Development Standards” as shown.

 Background
 This is a public hearing to consider proposed changes to Riverton City Code relating to
 Landscaping Standards in Chapter 18.215 Site Plan Review and Standards. These changes
 are intended to clean up existing city code without adding additional regulations.

 These changes are proposed by Riverton City staff. Earlier this year the city made changes to
 the Architectural Requirements in the Site Plan Development Standards. During that process,
 staff noticed several inconsistencies and outdated references in the Landscape Guidelines.
 These proposed changes will clarify what types of land uses are included, what standards
 apply, how trees are selected, and who approves a landscaping plan.

 The proposed changes designate the Land Use Authority as the approving body for landscape
 plans in all industrial, commercial, institutional, and muti-unit developments.

 The Planning Commission has forwarded the proposed amendments with a recommendation
 for approval.

Attachments
 The following items are attached:

        1. Proposed Changes to 18.215.030(3) Landscape Guidelines.
Chapter 18.215

SITE PLAN REVIEW AND STANDARDS

Sections:

18.215.010 Purpose and objective.

18.215.020 Approval required.

18.215.030 Site plan development standards.

18.215.040 Special provisions.

18.215.050 Application.

18.215.060 Issuance of building permit.

18.215.070 Issuance of a certiﬁcate of occupancy.

18.215.080 Failure to begin and complete development.

18.215.090 Geographic information system.

18.215.100 Appeals.



18.215.030 Site plan development standards.

(1) Site Plan Standards. The entire parcel area shall be built upon, landscaped or paved in
accordance with the zone district’s open space and parking requirements. Riverton City’s
standards and ordinances.

(3) Landscape Guidelines. Landscape guidelines are established to maintain the site
qualities that exist in all commercial buildings in any zoning districtcommercial zones and
minimize alteration, removal, or degradation of landscaping.



(a) Landscape Planting Plan. All industrial, commercial, institutional, and multi-unit
developments shall be required to submit a landscape plan prepared by a professional
licensed landscape architect.



(b) Installation Period. All yards or lots on commercial sites shall be planted and
maintained in lawns, trees, or other plantings or landscaped features, except for yard areas
covered by walls, driveways, parking lots and structures and working areas. Such
landscaping shall be completed at the time of the ﬁnal building inspection. However, in the
case of special exception or inclement weather, the developer may escrow for the cost of
landscaping, the amount to be determined by the city engineer. In no case shall yards be
maintained in artiﬁcial plantings, or more than 10 percent of the yard as crushed rock.

(c) Parking in Landscaped Areas. Temporary or permanent parking within any required
landscaped area, either for special sale or promotion, is prohibited.

(d) Minimum Landscaping Components. Landscaping for commercial sites shall require a
combination of sod (grass), trees, shrubbery, decorative rock or an approved ground cover
that is low-maintenance and drought-resistant. The use of sod as a ground cover shall be
limited to 70 percent of the total landscaped area. The remaining ground cover may be that
which is listed above. All landscaped areas shall be maintained frequently by the property
owner. Landscaped areas shall be irrigated by an irrigation system, which shall be shown
as part of the landscape planting plan, and approved by the planning commissionLand Use
Authority.

Tree types and species shall be in compliance with the recommended tree species list for
Riverton City. However, tree species not on the said list may be used if approved by the
parks superintendent. All tree species and sizes shall reviewed by the parks superintendent
and the planning department.

(e) Trees. Tree species shall be selected based on growth characteristics and site
conditions, including available space, overhead clearance, soil conditions, exposure, and
desired color and appearance.

(i) A minimum of 20 trees per acre shall be planted and maintained.



(ii) Trees shall be a minimum of one-and-one-half-inch caliper to two-inch caliper or, if
evergreen, seven feet to nine feet in height.



(iii) Where possible, a 60/40 mix of deciduous and evergreen tree species shall be used for
on-site landscaping. The species type, location, and spacing of trees shall be as shown on
the landscape planting plan and approved by the land use authority. The planning
commission land use authority may require speciﬁc types of deciduous trees for spring and
fall coloring.
(iv) Street trees with a minimum one-and-one-half-inch caliper shall be installed along all
public rights-of-way in the required park strip at 25-ft intervals, by the developer of the
property. Trees in the parkstrip do not count towards the required 20-trees per acre. The
species type, location, and spacing of street trees shall be as shown on the approved
landscape planting plan., in compliance with designated streets within any city
streetscape plans or according to the Riverton City standards and speciﬁcations for
irrigation and planting of streetscapes. Tree species shall be recommended by city sta
and approved by the land use authority. Such trees shall be placed at intervals of no less
than 25 feet.



(ev) Vegetation Removal and Tree Preservation. Every e ort to save all quality full-size
existing trees on a property proposed for development shall be made by the developer. All
existing trees over 10 inches in caliper, along with tree types and tree locations, shall be
shown and submitted to the planning commission along with the landscape planting plan.



Trees that are removed with or without good cause shall be replaced at the developer or
owner’s expense with trees of a two-inch caliper or greater, in compliance with the city’s
streetscape plan, unless otherwise approved by the planning departmentland use
authority..

(f) Internal Circulation Roads. Internal circulation roads shall be landscaped with street
trees and street-side planters. The streetscape planting shall be consistent throughout the
park to provide a unifying landscape theme. Details for these areas shall be submitted with
the landscape plan.



(g) Other Landscaping Regulations. In cases where a building(s) is set back from any street,
and parking is contained in the front or the side of a building(s), a landscaped strip of no
less than 10 feet wide shall be placed between the sidewalk and the parking lot. Trees as
approved by the city land use authority shall be placed in the strip and spaced at no less
than 30-foot intervals.
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               8
September 25, 2025


Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL of
Application PLZ-25-5008, “Auto Dealership in the C-G Zone Text Amendment.”
Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner
Matheson-Yes, Commissioner Beck-Yes, Commissioner Rushton-Yes, Commissioner
Keele-Yes, Chair Park-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       E.    'SITE PLAN LANDSCAPING STANDARDS', PLZ-25-5007, RIVERTON CITY
             IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
             CODE, SECTION 18.215.030, RELATING TO LANDSCAPING AND TREE
             STANDARDS.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the amendment would clean up
language in existing Site Plan Development Standards related to landscaping but would not
add additional regulations. He then reviewed the changes.

   •   All references to the City Council or Planning Commercial were replaced with “Land
       Use Authority.” The Planning Commission would have final approval of Landscaping
       Plans, but this change would ensure that City Code would not need to be amended
       in the future if the City Council designated a different Land Use Authority.

   •   Language was clarified to indicate that the standards apply to any nonresidential use,
       including commercial uses like churches or private schools in residential zones.

   •   References to the Street Tree Master Plan were removed. That plan was created by
       the Riverton City Tree Board, which was dissolved many years ago.

   •   The following specifications were added:
          o 20 trees per acre are required
          o Street trees must be at 25-foot intervals along the property frontage
          o City Staff will determine the required tree species based on growth
              characteristics and site conditions, but the Land Use Authority will have final
              approval.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the changes would not impact the Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District Water Efficiency Standards that had been adopted by the City.

In response to a question from Chair Park, it was reported that Riverton City’s Arborist is
Roman Williams. Chair Park stated that it was important to have a trained, qualified arborist
to consult on these issues.

Mr. Prestwich reported that Staff was working to update all sections of City Code. This
section was brought to his attention when a landscaping company requested a copy of the
Street Tree Master Plan.

Commissioner Matheson had reviewed the amendment and approved of the changes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              9
September 25, 2025



Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-25-5007, “Landscape Guidelines,” by amending
Riverton City Code 18.215.030(3), as presented. Commissioner Keele seconded the
motion. The motion passed with unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

Chair Park commended Code Enforcement Officer, Chad Cataluna, for his thoroughness
and follow-up. He had demonstrated the process of filing a complaint to a neighbor, and
Officer Cataluna followed up with him quickly, even though he had indicated that it was only
a test.

5.    MINUTES

      A.     PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES FROM THE AUGUST 28, 2025,
             MEETING.

Chair Park moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of August 28, 2025, as reported. Commissioner
Matheson seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:08 PM.
