                                           REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT
                                             (4000 West – Farmhouse Storage)

          This Reimbursement Agreement (“Agreement”) is between Riverton City, a Utah municipal corporation (“City”),
and Farmhouse Storage, LLC, a Utah limited liability company (“Developer”). This Agreement is effective on the date that the
last party executes this Agreement as indicated by the date stated under that party’s signature line (“Effective Date”).

                                                         RECITALS

         A.     The Developer is undertaking certain development activities (“Project”) on property owned by Developer
located within the City’s jurisdiction.

        B.    The Project is subject to, and governed by, Riverton City Code and a development agreement for the Project
(the “Development Agreement”) that was approved by the City Council on _____________.

         C.     As part of the Project, the Developer is required to design and construct certain public improvements (the
“Improvements”) along 4000 West. The Improvements are eligible to be reimbursed subject to the City’s policies and as
anticipated by the Parties in the Development Agreement.

       D.    The City has agreed to reimburse the Developer for costs associated with the design and installation of the
Improvements, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and for other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and adequate of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

                                                       AGREEMENT

         1.    City Obligation to Reimburse. Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, the City is obligated to
reimburse the Developer for the Improvements as detailed in the Attached Exhibit A. City’s oblgation to reimburse Developer
for the Improvements shall not exceed amounts detailed in Exhibit A.

        2.     Developer Obligations.

              2.1. The Developer shall construct the Improvements identified in the approved plans (the “Plans”) for the
    Improvements (which, when approved by the City, shall be attached hereto as Exhibit B).

                 2.2. The Improvements shall be completed at the Developer’s sole cost and expense by qualified licensed
    contractors. The Developer shall provide evidence, satisfactory to the City, that all labor, materials, equipment, and other
    costs incurred in performing the Improvements have been paid in full and that any real property associated therewith is
    free and clear of all liens and encumbrances related to Developer’s installation of the Improvements.

                 2.3. The Developer hereby warrants that all work performed in connection with the installation of the
    Improvements and every part thereof shall remain in good condition and free from all defects due to faulty materials or
    workmanship during the Warranty Period (defined below). The Developer shall promptly make all repairs, corrections,
    and/or replacements for all defects in workmanship, materials, and equipment during the Warranty Period, without charge
    or cost to the City. “Warranty Period” means a period of one (1) year beginning on the date on which the City certifies
    the work complete and accepts the Improvements.

                 2.4. Upon completion of the Improvements and acceptance of the same into warranty by the City,
    Developer shall post a warranty bond in an amount equal to 10% of the Developer’s cost of the Improvements. City agrees
    not to require a completion assurance bond from Developer for any portion of the Improvements. The 10% warranty bond
    shall be administered consistent with other warranty bonds in the City.

                2.5. The City shall maintain the Improvements after the City has inspected and accepted the Improvements,
    and upon lapse of the Warranty Period.

        3.     Reimbursement.



                                                               1
                  3.1. Payment of Reimbursement. After the Improvements are completed and accepted into warranty by the
    City, the City shall reimburse the Developer for the Actual Costs (defined below) incurred by the Developer to design and
    construct the Improvements in accordance with the Plans (the “Reimbursement”). For purposes of this Agreement,
    “Actual Costs” means all of the costs listed in Exhibit hard and soft costs which are incurred or expended by Developer
    to construct and install the Improvements in accordance with the Plans. For any amounts owed by City to Developer
    hereunder, the City shall collect impact fees from all benefitted service areas (the “Benefitted Area”) and make cash
    reimbursement payments to Developer on a quarterly basis from such impact fees so collected by the City. The City may
    also offset any amounts owed to Developer by waiving applicable impact fees owed by Developer to City for development
    of the Project. Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting the City from paying the Reimbursement to Developer
    from any other funds or accounts of the City that are legally able to be used for such purposes.


                 3.2. Review of Actual Expenditures. Prior to any payment by the City to Developer hereunder, City may
    require that Developer submit additional information or detail regarding all material, labor, and equipment costs (the “Cost
    Breakdown”). Developer shall include invoices or receipts from all third parties providing material, labor, or equipment
    for the Improvements. If the City disputes any of the costs or amounts included in the Cost Breakdown, City may either
    request additional information from Developer or provide to Developer a written response detailing the costs or amount
    that City disputes and an explanation for City not accepting such costs or amounts.

        4.     Developer’s Representations. In conjunction with the submission of any and all invoices to the City for the
Actual Costs of the Improvements, Developer represents and warrants to the City the following:

                 4.1.   All estimates and agreements for work performed hereunder were procured through arms-length
    transactions;

                4.2. Developer, or its principals or affiliates, do not own or have any interest in any of the contractors,
    engineering firms, or other individuals or entities that provided any services or materials that are included in any invoices;

                4.3. To the best of Developer’s knowledge, the invoices are true and accurate invoices for the actual costs
    of the Improvements;

               4.4. Developer has not requested or been provided any kickbacks or reimbursements in exchange for
    Developer accepting or agreeing to the invoices;

                 4.5. If any contractors or entities providing materials or services reflected in the invoice provide other
    materials or services to Developer (or Developer’s principals or affiliates), Developer has not requested or been provided
    any discount on other materials or services in exchange for Developer utilizing such contractors or entities for the
    Improvements.

        5.     Term. This Agreement shall automatically terminate in 10 years following the Effective Date.

        6.     General Provisions.

                6.1. Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the
    successors and assigns of the parties.

                6.2. Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference purposes only and shall not
    be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the meaning, scope, or interpretation of any of the terms
    or provisions of this Agreement or the intent hereof.

                 6.3. Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts with the same effect as if
    the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same instrument. All signed counterparts shall be deemed to be one
    original.

                6.4. Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any provision hereof be void,
    voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable, unenforceable, or invalid provision shall not affect the other
    provisions of this Agreement.



                                                                2
             6.5. Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either party of any breach of any kind or character whatsoever by the
other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be construed as a continuing waiver of, or consent to, any subsequent
breach of this Agreement.

             6.6. Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties shall be construed cumulatively, and none
of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive of, or in lieu or limitation of, any other right, remedy, or priority allowed by
law.

             6.7.   Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument in writing signed by the
parties.

             6.8. Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed, and enforced according to the
substantive laws of the State of Utah. This Agreement shall be interpreted in an absolutely neutral fashion, and ambiguities
herein shall not be construed against any party as the “drafter” of this Agreement.

           6.9. Attorneys’ Fees. In the event any action or proceeding is taken or brought by either party concerning
this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees, whether such sums
are expended with or without suit, at trial, on appeal or in any bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.

             6.10. Notice. All notices provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be given by first class mail, certified
or registered, postage prepaid, addressed to the parties at their respective addresses set forth below.

             6.11. Time of Essence. Time is the essence of this Agreement.

              6.12. Assignment. The Developer may not assign its rights, or delegate its duties, hereunder without the
City’s prior written consent. The City may freely assign its rights and delegate its duties under this Agreement, whereupon
the assignee shall succeed to, and the City shall be correspondingly released from, all of the City’s rights, duties, and
liabilities hereunder.




                                                             3
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the date signed by the City below.


                                                            RIVERTON CITY


                                              Signature:

                                             Print Name:

                                                   Title:

ATTEST



                           , City Recorder




RYAN CARTER, City Attorney
Approved as to form



                                                            DEVELOPER
                                                            FARMHOUSE STORAGE, LLC
                                                            A Utah limited liability company




                                                            JOE SALISBURY, Manager




                                                            4
EXHIBIT A
 Estimate




    5
       EXHIBIT B
Approved Improvement Plans




            6
