                                       City Council Meeting Agenda
                                            September 16, 2025


PRESENTER:                  Jason Lethbridge

                            Ordinance No. 25-21 - RM-6 Amendment, Proposed Updates to the RM-6
                            Zone to include provisions for using private roads in specific circumstances
ITEM:
                            and clarify Development Standards. Amendments Proposed by Riverton City -
                            Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director

SUMMARY:

This proposed zone text change would add provisions to the RM-6 Zone similar to provisions found in
the other Single-Family Zones for the Planning Commission to determine by Conditional Use if private
roads may be used in an RM-6 Development. It would establish standards for the Planning Commission
to consider private roads vs public roads and set standards for private roadway designs. The proposed
standards are similar, but slightly different than those currently in use in the R-1, RR-22, R-2, R-3, and
R-4 Zones, they are modified to fit the smaller lots and narrower frontages of the 5,000-sf lots.



The Planning Commission recommended approval of the proposed amendments with on recommended
change to make the rear yard setbacks a standard 15 feet. However, in the previous City Council
meeting there were concerns expressed regarding this reduction. Based on that discussion, the rear
yard setback language has been adjusted requiring 25 feet adjacent to single family residential uses,
unless otherwise approved by SD during the rezone hearing. That language reads as follows:

        c) Rear Yard.
        i) The minimum rear yard setback shall be 15 feet.
        )ii) Where adjacent to existing single-family residential zoning or use, the setback shall be 25
        feet,. unless otherwise established by Specific Development designation during the rezone
        approval process

FISCAL IMPACT:              N/A

FUNDING SOURCE:             N/A

ATTACHMENTS:

25-21_RM-6_Amendment_CC_Report.pdf
Ordinance No. 25-21 - RM 6 Amendment Ordinance.pdf

RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 25-21, amendments to the RM-6 Zone in Sections 18.45 of the
                                                                                                             1
Riverton City Code as shown in Exhibit “A”.




                                              2
