                              AMERICA250 UTAH
                       LOGO USAGE AGREEMENT
This Trademark License Agreement (“Agreement”) is entered into on ____________ (
“Effective Date”) by and between the State of Utah’s Department of Cultural and Community
Engagement, a state governmental entity with a principal place of business at 3760 S. Highland
Dr., Millcreek, UT 84106 (“Department”) and [Entity], a Utah [county/municipal/tribal
government], with a principal place of business at ____________ (“Entity”). The Parties
execute the Agreement under relevant provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act at Title 11,
Chapter 13 of the Utah Code.

                                   BACKGROUND FACTS

In preparation for America’s 250th anniversary (“Semiquincentennial”) in 2026, Utah’s goal is to
create a brand identity for the Semiquincentennial that can bring communities together and
generate awareness for the anniversary. To that end, America250 Utah has chosen to utilize a
licensing agreement for its logo and name with the national foundation, America250TM. The
Department’s hope is that, in coordination with counties, cities, tribes, and organizations
planning events around the state, we can create a unifying America250 Utah brand that creates a
sense of cohesion leading up to 2026, bringing together celebrations and commemorations
around the state and country.

To permit local governments to access the America250 Utah logo and use the America250 name
in individual brand identity, we will share this Agreement, which functions as a standalone
licensing agreement, with county, city, and tribal committees that complete the steps detailed in
the next paragraph. These local governments will receive a community-specific logo to use. To
become a Utah250 Community member and receive a community-specific logo, Entity must do
each of the following:

1) Pass a resolution in a public meeting of its governing commission or council;
2) Submit to the Department a list of Entity’s Utah250 Community committee members;
3) Share with the Department the committee’s plans and detail how Entity will utilize any funds
or branding received by America250 Utah in alliance with America250 Utah’s mission, vision,
and pillars; and
 4) Sign and return this Agreement to the Department.

                                     SCOPE OF WORK

After communities have completed the above four steps, America250 Utah will share a unique,
community-specific logo with the municipality and an organizing stipend. Counties and Tribal
nations that create a Utah250 Community committee may receive a stipend of $3,000 and city
councils may receive a stipend of $1,500.


                                               1
                                 TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The parties agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I—DEFINITIONS

Unless the Agreement clearly indicates the contrary, the following terms have the following
meanings:

1.1​ “Confidential Information” means information that is deemed private, protected,
controlled, or confidential under applicable state and federal laws, including personal
information. The Department and the State of Utah reserve the right to identify, during and after
this Agreement, additional reasonable types of categories of information that must be kept
confidential under federal and state laws.

1.2​ “Trademark” means the Entity-specific logo that the Department creates and provide to
Entity under this Agreement.

1.3​ “Licensed Products” means any Entity-designed or -produced products that feature the
Trademark.

1.4 ​   “Licensed Territory” means the United States and its territories, and possessions.

                    ARTICLE II—GRANT OF TRADEMARK LICENSE

2.1​      If for any reason Entity wishes to utilize the America250 Utah or America250TM logos
or marks in a way not permitted by this Agreement, Entity must first submit a request to Nicole
Handy for Department review and approval.

2.2​ Upon the terms and conditions in this Agreement, the Department grants to Entity and
Entity accepts, for the Agreement term, the limited right to use the Trademark in the Licensed
Territory.

2.3​ Unless sooner terminated under Article VI, the Agreement will remain in force until
December 31, 2026. If the Agreement is renewed, the new Agreement shall expire five (5) years
from the prior expiration date.

2.4​ The Department shall be permitted to provide input on and final say on the Trademark’s
use in any Licensed Product.

2.5​ This Agreement may be amended or modified only by written agreement of both parties,
which amendment will be attached to this Agreement. Automatic renewals will not apply to this
Agreement, even if listed elsewhere in the Agreement.

2.6​ The Department may use the Trademark however it wishes and may grant license rights
for any use of its Trademark to other vendors during the term of this Agreement.


                                                2
2.7​ Entity has no authorization, express or implied, to bind the Department or the State of
Utah to any agreements, settlements, liability, or understanding and agrees not to perform acts as
an agent for the Department.

2.8​ The Department and the America250 Foundation, Inc. (“Foundation”) have executed a
separate agreement (“Contract”), available to Entity upon request, that governs the Department’s
right to use and sublicense at least one separate trademark from which the Trademark is derived.
In using the Trademark, Entity shall be bound to all terms and limitations applicable to the
Department under the Contract. Among other things, those terms and limitations include
Branding and Trademark Usage Guidelines that govern the use of the Trademark. Though the
Department has reviewed the Contract and made the good-faith determination that nothing in this
Agreement conflicts with the separate agreement, this determination does not constitute legal
advice. Entity shall be responsible for securing legal advice and opinions from its own legal
counsel.

                           ARTICLE III—USE OF TRADEMARK

3.1​ Except as authorized under this Agreement, Entity will not use the Trademark or trade
name in any manner for or in connection with the use, advertising, sale, offer for sale, or
promotion of any Licensed Products without the express written consent of the Department.
Entity agrees to comply with all licensing terms and limitations applicable to the State of Utah
under its STATE & TERRITORY PARTNERSHIP & SUBLICENSE AGREEMENT with
America250.org.

3.2​ Entity undertakes fully and without reservation to render to the Department all assistance
in connection with any matter pertaining to the Trademark protection, including furnishing
documents, records, files, or other information; making available its employees; and executing
all necessary documents. The Foundation will maintain the registration for the Trademark.

3.3​ Apart from its license rights under this Agreement, Entity will not acquire any right, title,
or interest in the Trademark during this Agreement.

3.4​ Entity may not challenge the validity or ownership of the Trademark or assist in any
claim that is adverse to the Department or the State of Utah. Furthermore, Entity may not commit
an act that may prejudice the Foundation or the Department’s rights in the Trademark or damage
the Foundation or the Department’s reputation. Entity may not attempt to register a trademark
similar to the Trademark. The Parties agree that if Entity violates this or any other provision in
this Agreement, the Department or the State of Utah will suffer economic harm and the
Department or the State of Utah will be entitled to seek reasonable damages.

3.5​ In addition to the permitted uses described in Article III, Entity may use the Trademark to
do each of the following:

       i.​     Promote events and programs commemorating the Semiquincentennial.
       ii.​    Share the Trademark with agencies and organizations in the Entity’s city, county,
               or tribal jurisdiction;

                                                3
       iii.​   Produce, sell, and distribute merchandise bearing the Trademark, subject to all
               other terms of this Agreement, including Article IV;
       iv.​    Create and promote an America250 website with Entity’s county, city, or tribal
               name prominently represented; and
       v.​     Utilize the Trademark—but not any of the separate trademarks from which the
               Trademark is derived—for fundraising, corporate sponsorship, or any other
               commercial activity.

3.6​   Entity may not do any of the following:
        i.​    Alter the Trademark in any way;
        ii.​   Pursue merchandising or royalty agreements involving the words “America250”
               or any registered America250 mark; or
        iii.​  Use the Trademark in connection with the promotion of any partisan or political
               event or activity.

                            ARTICLE IV—QUALITY CONTROL

4.1​ As noted in Section 2.8, the Trademark derives from separate trademarks owned by the
Foundation. Entity may not design or sell products that feature any of those separate trademarks
without the Department’s prior written approval.

4.2​ Entity will produce, sell, and distribute Licensed Products in accordance with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws. The quality of the Licensed Products will at all times be
equal to or greater than the quality of any other products currently produced or sold by Entity.

4.3​ On each anniversary of this Agreement, or from time to time upon the Department’s
reasonable request, the Department may review random samples of Licensed Products. The
Department may also review any labels, cartons, containers, packing and wrapping material, and
advertising and promotional items used in connection with the use Trademark by Entity.

4.4​ If the Department objects to a quality change in the Licensed Products, it will inform
Entity immediately, in writing, and specify the reasons for such disapproval. Entity will have
twenty-one (21) days from the certified mail receipt of such notice to cure any defects. If the
Parties acknowledge that the cure will take longer than twenty-one (21) days, Entity may ask for
one 14-day extension. If any defects are not cured, the Department may terminate the Agreement
under Article 6.1.

                                ARTICLE V—ADVERTISING

5.1 ​ From time to time upon the Department’s reasonable request, Entity will furnish to the
Department, without cost, representative advertising, promotion, and sales examples of materials
bearing the Trademark to the Department to ensure that the Trademark’s use accords with this
Agreement.

5.2​ In all printed materials, Entity must acknowledge that the Foundation owns and the
Department sublicenses the Trademark.

                                                 4
                      ARTICLE VI—DEFAULT AND TERMINATION

6.1​ The Department may terminate this Agreement with cause at any time by written notice
to Entity. Cause includes Entity’s breach of any provisions in this Agreement or if Entity is
otherwise in default and does not cure the breach or default within twenty-one (21) days after
written notice by the Department, delivered via USPS certified mail.

6.2​ This Agreement may also be terminated without cause (for convenience), in advance of
the expiration date, by either party, upon one hundred eighty (180) days’ prior written
termination notice being given to the other party.

6.3​ If this Agreement is terminated by the Department for cause, or terminated without cause
by either party, the Parties will confer on the sale of remaining Licensed Product and the
Department reserves the right to demand that the remaining inventory be sold within one
hundred eighty (180) days. Upon termination of this Agreement, and after the one hundred
eighty (180) day sell-off period, Entity will be prohibited from selling Licensed Product. If any
portion of the stipend has not been used or spent by Entity, then within five business days of
notice of termination from the Department, Entity shall refund the unused portion of the stipend.
If Entity creates a material breach of this Agreement, the Department shall have the right to
demand and collect the stipend from Entity.

                  ARTICLE VII—INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE

7.1​ Entity shall hold harmless, defend, and indemnify the Department against any and all
claims, demands, and causes of action arising out of any defects or Entity’s failure to perform as
to the Licensed Products or any material used in connection therewith or any use thereof.

7.2​ Entity represents that it is a fully self-insured governmental entity covered by Utah’s
Division of Risk Management or a comparable agency within its county, municipal, or tribal
government. Based solely on this representation, Entity shall not be required to carry additional
insurance. If at any time during the Agreement term the first sentence of this section ceases to be
true, Entity shall immediately purchase commercial general liability insurance from an insurance
company authorized to do business in the State of Utah. The limits of such insurance shall be no
less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) aggregate, and Entity shall add the State of Utah as an additional insured with
notice of cancellation.

7.3​ Entity warrants that any Licensed Products provided by them under this License
Agreement will not, to Entity’s knowledge, infringe any third-party copyrights, patents,
Trademark, or trade secrets that exist, arise, or are enforceable under the laws of the United
States.

                              ARTICLE VIII—MISCELLANEOUS

8.1​   The Parties are governmental entities subject to the Governmental Immunity Act (“Act”).

                                                5
The execution of this Agreement does not constitute a waiver or forfeiture of any protections or
defenses under the Act.

8.2​ This Agreement is governed by the laws, rules, and regulations of Utah. Any action or
proceeding arising from this Agreement shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in
the State of Utah. Exclusive venue shall be in Salt Lake City, in the Third Judicial District Court
for Salt Lake County.

8.3​ Entity agrees to abide by federal and state employment laws, including: (i) Title VI and
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e), which prohibits discrimination against
any employee or applicant for employment or any applicant or recipient of services, on the basis
of race, religion, color, or national origin; (ii) Executive Order No. 11246, as amended, which
prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex; (iii) 45 CFR 90, which prohibits discrimination on
the basis of age; (iv) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, or the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disabilities; and (v)
Utah’s Executive Order, dated December 13, 2006, which prohibits unlawful harassment in the
workplace. Entity further agrees to abide by any other laws, regulations, or orders that prohibit
the discrimination of any kind by any of Entity’s employees.

8.4​ Entity will not represent itself as the agent or legal representative for the Department, the
State of Utah, or the Foundation for any purpose whatsoever, and has no right to create or
assume any similar obligation, express or implied, for or on behalf of the Department, the State
of Utah, or the Foundation in any way. This Agreement does not create any agency, partnership,
or joint venture between the parties.

8.5​ This Agreement will not be assigned, transferred, or sublicensed by Entity except with
the Department’s prior written consent. Any violation of the preceding sentence is null and void
and any attempt by Entity to assign, transfer, or sublicense its rights will result in immediate
termination of this Agreement and Entity’s rights to the Trademark. Subject to such restriction
and to the restriction against assignment provided above, this Agreement binds to the parties’
benefit and their permitted successors.

8.6​ If any part of this Agreement is declared invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining portions of the Agreement shall remain valid.

8.7​ Neither party will be held responsible for delay or default caused by fire, riot, act of God,
and/or war that is beyond that party's reasonable control. The Department or the State of Utah
may terminate this Agreement after determining such delay will prevent successful performance
of this Agreement.

8.8​ A waiver of any right, power, or privilege shall not be construed as a waiver of any
subsequent right, power, or privilege.

8.9​ In the event of any judicial action to enforce rights under this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled its costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in
connection with such action.

                                                6
8.10​ This Agreement constitutes the complete and final agreement between the parties and
supersedes any and all other prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings between
the parties, whether oral or written.

8.11​ All notices and statements required under this Agreement will be in writing addressed to
the parties as set forth below and sent certified mail or email, return receipt requested, unless an
address change notification is given in writing. The mailing date is the date the notice or
statement is given.

If to the Department:                                Salt Lake City, UT 84114
                                                     If to Entity:
Attn: Nicole Handy
Department of Cultural and Community
Engagement
3760 South Highland Drive



                 (This section is intentionally left blank. Signature page follows)




                                                 7
IN WITNESS, the parties have caused this instrument to be duly executed as of the day and year
first above written.


 State of Utah, Department of                              [Entity Name]:
 Cultural and Community
 Engagement:




                                     ​
 Print Name:                                        Print Name:
 Title:                                             Title:
 Date:                                              Date




                                              8
