                 UTAH FIXED NON-BQ EQUIPMENT LEASE


Long Name of Entity:     Riverton City
            Address:     12830 South 1700 West
      City, State Zip:   Riverton, UT 84065
           Attention:    Craig Calvert
Public Finance Office: Fleet Manager
             County: Salt Lake
            Amount: 590,759.44
                Rate: 1.25
       Maturity Date: October 7, 2024
     First Pmt Date:     October 7, 2020
     Payment Dates:      October 7
        Auto Extend: 4
    Governing Body: City Council
     Resolution Date: September, 2020
         Dated Date: October, 2020
                Day: 7th
                State: Utah
                                     $590,759.44
                                    Riverton City
                           Non-BQ Lease Purchase Agreement




1. Lease/Purchases Agreement of the Riverton City
2. Exhibit A. Calculation of Interest Component
3. Exhibit B. Description of Leased Property
4. Exhibit C. Resolution of Governing Body
5. Exhibit D. Opinion of Lessee’s Counsel
6. Exhibit E. Security Documents
7. Exhibit F. Delivery and Acceptance Certificate
8. Form 8038-G
9. Wire Transfer Request
NON-BQ LEASE/PURCHASE AGREEMENT


      Dated as of October 7, 2020


           by and between


         ZMFU II, INC.,
               as Lessor


                 and


       RIVERTON CITY,
              as Lessee
                                                                                            TABLE OF CONTENTS



                                              ARTICLE I                                                                                                       ARTICLE IX
                            DEFINITIONS AND EXHIBITS                                                                                                    MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 1.1              Definitions and Rules of Construction ..................................1                    SECTION 9.1 Notices ..............................................................................15
SECTION 1.2              Exhibits ...............................................................................2    SECTION 9.2 System of Registration .......................................................16
                                                                                                                      SECTION 9.3 Instruments of Further Assurance .......................................16
                                                                                                                      SECTION 9.4 Binding Effect ...................................................................16
                                             ARTICLE II                                                               SECTION 9.5 Amendments .....................................................................16
                                                                                                                      SECTION 9.6 Section Headings ...............................................................16
   REPRESENTATIONS COVENANTS AND WARRANTIES                                                                           SECTION 9.7 Severability .......................................................................16
                                                                                                                      SECTION 9.8 Entire Agreement ..............................................................16
SECTION 2.1              Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the Lessee .....2                               SECTION 9.9 Execution in Counterparts.................................................16
SECTION 2.2              Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the Bank .......7                               SECTION 9.10 Arbitration .......................................................................16
                                                                                                                      SECTION 9.11 Applicable Law ...............................................................17

                                             ARTICLE III                                                              Schedule of Lease Payments........................................................Exhibit A
                                                                                                                      Legal Description of the Leased Property......................................Exhibit B
                              LEASE; LEASE PAYMENTS                                                                   Resolution of Governing Body ......................................................Exhibit C
                                                                                                                      Opinion of Lessee’s Counsel .........................................................Exhibit D
SECTION 3.1 Lease...................................................................................8                 Security Documents......................................................................Exhibit E
SECTION 3.2 Term ...................................................................................8                 Delivery and Acceptance Certificate..............................................Exhibit F
SECTION 3.3 Termination .........................................................................8
SECTION 3.4 Lease Payments ...................................................................9
SECTION 3.5 Possession of Leased Property Upon Termination ..............9
SECTION 3.6 No Withholding ...................................................................9
SECTION 3.7 Lease Payments to Constitute a Current Obligation of the
Lessee ...........................................................................................................9
SECTION 3.8 Net Lease ............................................................................9
SECTION 3.9 Offset ..................................................................................9


                                             ARTICLE IV
                                             INSURANCE
SECTION 4.1              Insurance ...........................................................................10
SECTION 4.2              Damage to or Destruction of the Leased Property ............... 10


                                             ARTICLE V
                                            COVENANTS
SECTION 5.1 Use of the Leased Property ................................................11
SECTION 5.2 Interest in the Leased Property and this Lease ..................... 11
SECTION 5.3 Maintenance, Utilities, Taxes and Assessments................... 11
SECTION 5.4 Modification of the Leased Property ................................... 12
SECTION 5.5 Permits ..............................................................................12
SECTION 5.6 Bank's Right to Perform for Lessee................................... 12
SECTION 5.7 Bank's Disclaimer of Warranties ......................................12
SECTION 5.8 Indemnification .................................................................13
SECTION 5.9 Inclusion for Consideration as Budget Item. ....................... 13
SECTION 5.10 Annual Financial Information...........................................13


                                             ARTICLE VI
                        ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING
SECTION 6.1              Assignment by the Bank ....................................................13
SECTION 6.2              Assignment and Subleasing by the Lessee .......................... 13


                                            ARTICLE VII
                  EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
SECTION 7.1 Events of Default Defined ..................................................13
SECTION 7.2 Remedies on Default ..........................................................14
SECTION 7.3 No Remedy Exclusive .......................................................14
SECTION 7.4 Agreement to Pay Attorneys' Fees and Expenses ................ 14
SECTION 7.5  Waiver of Certain Damages ............................................14


                                           ARTICLE VIII
          PREPAYMENT OF LEASE PAYMENTS IN PART
SECTION 8.1              Extraordinary Prepayment From Net Proceeds.................... 15
SECTION 8.2              Option to Purchase Leased Property ................................ 15
                                   LEASE/PURCHASE AGREEMENT

        THIS NON-BQ LEASE/PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of October 7, 2020, by and between
ZMFU II, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Utah, as lessor (the
“Bank”), and Riverton City (the “Lessee”), a public agency of the State of Utah (the “State”), duly organized
and existing under the Constitution and laws of the State, as lessee;


                                           W I T N E S S E T H:

        WHEREAS, the Lessee desires to finance the acquisition of the equipment and/or other personal
property described as the “Leased Property” in Exhibit B (the “Leased Property”) by entering into this
Lease/Purchase Agreement with the Bank (the “Lease”); and

        WHEREAS, the Bank agrees to lease the Leased Property to the Lessee upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Lease, with rental to be paid by the Lessee equal to the Lease Payments
hereunder; and

        WHEREAS, it is the intent of the parties that the original term of this Lease, and any subsequent
renewal terms, shall not exceed 12 months, and that the payment obligation of the Lessee shall not constitute
a general obligation under State law; and

         WHEREAS, all acts, conditions and things required by law to exist, to have happened and to have
been performed precedent to and in connection with the execution and delivery of this Lease do exist, have
happened and have been performed in regular and due time, form and manner as required by law, and the
parties hereto are now duly authorized to execute and enter into this Lease;

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above premises and of the mutual covenants hereinafter
contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto agree as follows:


                                                ARTICLE I

                                     DEFINITIONS AND EXHIBITS

         SECTION 1.1 Definitions and Rules of Construction. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
capitalized terms used herein shall, for all purposes of this Lease, have the meanings specified in the
definitions below. Unless the context otherwise indicates, words importing the singular number shall include
the plural number and vice versa. The terms “hereby”, “hereof”, “hereto”, “herein”, “hereunder” and any
similar terms, as used in this Lease, refer to this Lease as a whole.

        “Advance” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(l)(i)(D) hereof.

        “Bank” shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble hereof.

       “Business Day” means any day except a Saturday, Sunday, or other day on which banks in Salt
Lake City, Utah or the State are authorized to close.

        “Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

        “Commencement Date” means the date this Lease is executed by the Bank and the Lessee.

        “Event of Nonappropriation” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 hereof.
        “Governing Body” means the governing body of the Lessee.

        “Lease Payments” means the rental payments described in Exhibit A hereto.

        “Lease Payment Date” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(a) hereof.

        “Leased Property” shall have the meaning set forth in the Whereas clauses hereof.

        “Lessee” shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble hereof.

        “Net Proceeds” means insurance or eminent domain proceeds received with respect to the Leased
Property less expenses incurred in connection with the collection of such proceeds.

        “Obligation Instrument” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(c) hereof.

        “Original Term” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 hereof.

        “Permitted Encumbrances” means, as of any particular time: (i) liens for taxes and assessments, if
any, not then delinquent, or which the Lessee may, pursuant to provisions of Section 5.3 hereof, permit to
remain unpaid; (ii) this Lease; (iii) any contested right or claim of any mechanic, laborer, materialman,
supplier or vendor filed or perfected in the manner prescribed by law to the extent permitted under Section
5.4(b) hereof; (iv) easements, rights of way, mineral rights, drilling rights and other rights, reservations,
covenants, conditions or restrictions which exist of record as of the execution date of this Lease and which
the Lessee hereby certifies will not materially impair the use of the Leased Property by the Lessee; and
(v) other rights, reservations, covenants, conditions or restrictions established following the date of
execution of this Lease and to which the Bank and the Lessee consent in writing.

        “Rebate Exemption” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(l)(ii)(A) hereof.

        “Regulations” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(l)(i) hereof.

        “Renewal Term” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 hereof.

        “Scheduled Term” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2 hereof.

        “State” shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble hereof.

        “Term” or “Term of this Lease” means the Original Term and all Renewal Terms provided for in
this Lease under Section 3.2 until this Lease is terminated as provided in Section 3.3 hereof.

       SECTION 1.2 Exhibits. Exhibits A, B, C, D, E and F attached to this Lease are by this reference
made a part of this Lease.


                                                ARTICLE II

                      REPRESENTATIONS, COVENANTS AND WARRANTIES

       SECTION 2.1 Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the Lessee. The Lessee represents,
covenants and warrants to the Bank as follows:

                (a)     Due Organization and Existence. The Lessee is a public agency of the State duly
        organized and existing under the Constitution and laws of the State.

                                                     2
                 (b)      Authorization; Enforceability. The Constitution and laws of the State authorize the
        Lessee to enter into this Lease and to enter into the transactions contemplated by, and to carry out its
        obligations under, this Lease. The Lessee has duly authorized, executed and delivered this Lease in
        accordance with the Constitution and laws of the State. This Lease constitutes the legal, valid and
        binding special obligation of the Lessee enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent
        limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws or equitable
        principles affecting the rights of creditors generally.

                (c)      No Conflicts or Default; Other Liens or Encumbrances. Neither the execution and
        delivery of this Lease nor the fulfillment of or compliance with the terms and conditions hereof,
        nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (i) conflicts with or results in a
        breach of the terms, conditions, provisions, or restrictions of any existing law, or court or
        administrative decree, order, or regulation, or agreement or instrument to which the Lessee is now
        a party or by which the Lessee is bound, including without limitation any agreement or
        instrument pertaining to any bond, note, lease, certificate of participation, debt instrument,
        or any other obligation of the Lessee (any such bond, note, lease, certificate of participation, debt
        instrument, and other obligation being referred to herein as an “Obligation Instrument”), (ii)
        constitutes a default under any of the foregoing, or (iii) results in the creation or imposition of any
        pledge, lien, charge or encumbrance whatsoever upon any of the property or assets of the Lessee,
        or upon the Leased Property except for Permitted Encumbrances.

        By way of example, and not to be construed as a limitation on the representations set forth in
        the immediately preceding paragraph:

                 (A) no portion of the Leased Property is pledged to secure any Obligation Instrument;
                 and

                 (B) the interests of the Lessor in the Leased Property hereunder do not violate the
                 terms, conditions or provisions of any restriction or revenue pledge in any agreement
                 or instrument pertaining to any Obligation Instrument.

If any Obligation Instrument existing on the date of execution of this Lease creates any pledge, lien, charge
or encumbrance on any revenues, property or assets associated with the Leased Property that is higher in
priority to the Bank’s interests therein under this Lease, the Bank hereby subordinates its interests therein, but
only to the extent required pursuant to such existing Obligation Instrument.

               (d)      Compliance with Open Meeting Requirements. The Governing Body has
        complied with all applicable open public meeting and notice laws and requirements with respect to
        the meeting at which the Lessee’s execution of this Lease was authorized.

                (e)     Compliance with Bidding Requirements. Either there are no procurement or
        public bidding laws of the State applicable to the acquisition and leasing of the Leased Property
        pursuant to this Lease, or the Governing Body and the Lessee have complied with all such
        procurement and public bidding laws as may be applicable hereto.

                 (f)     No Adverse Litigation. There are no legal or governmental proceedings or
        litigation pending, or to the best knowledge of the Lessee threatened or contemplated (or any basis
        therefor) wherein an unfavorable decision, ruling, or finding might adversely affect the transaction
        contemplated in or the validity of this Lease.

                (g)      Opinion of Lessee’s Counsel. The letter attached to this Lease as Exhibit D is a
        true opinion of Lessee’s counsel.

                                                        3
        (h)     Governmental Use of Leased Property. During the Term of this Lease, the Leased
Property will be used solely by the Lessee, and only for the purpose of performing one or more
governmental or proprietary functions of the Lessee consistent with the permissible scope of the
Lessee’s authority, and the Leased Property will not be subject to any direct or indirect private
business use.

        (i)      Other Representations and Covenants. The representations, covenants, warranties,
and obligations set forth in this Article are in addition to and are not intended to limit any other
representations, covenants, warranties, and obligations set forth in this Lease.

        (j)     No Nonappropriations. The Lessee has never non-appropriated or defaulted under
any of its payment or performance obligations or covenants, either under any municipal lease of
the same general nature as this Lease, or under any of its bonds, notes, or other obligations of
indebtedness for which its revenues or general credit are pledged.

        (k)    No Legal Violation. The Leased Property is not, and at all times during the Term
of this Lease will not be in violation of any federal, state or local law, statute, ordinance or
regulation.

        (l)     General Tax and Arbitrage Representations and Covenants.

                (i)     The certifications and representations made by the Lessee in this Lease are
        intended, among other purposes, to be a certificate permitted in Section 1.148-2(b) of the
        Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 148 of the Code (the
        "Regulations"), to establish the reasonable expectations of the Lessee at the time of the
        execution of this Lease made on the basis of the facts, estimates and circumstances in
        existence on the date hereof. The Lessee further certifies and covenants as follows:

                        (A) The Lessee has not been notified of any disqualification or proposed
                disqualification of it by the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service as an
                issuer which may certify bond issues.

                         (B) To the best knowledge and belief of the Lessee, there are no facts,
                estimates or circumstances that would materially change the conclusions,
                certifications or representations set forth in this Lease, and the expectations herein
                set forth are reasonable.

                        (C) The Scheduled Term of this Lease does not exceed the useful life of
                the Leased Property, and the weighted average term of this Lease does not exceed
                the weighted average useful life of the Leased Property.

                        (D) Each advance of funds by the Bank to finance Leased Property under
                this Lease (each an “Advance”) will occur only when and to the extent that the
                Lessee has reasonably determined and identified the nature, need, and cost of each
                item of Leased Property pertaining to such Advance.

                        (E) No use will be made of the proceeds of this Lease or any such
                Advance, or any funds or accounts of the Lessee which may be deemed to be
                proceeds of this Lease or any such Advance, which use, if it had been reasonably
                expected on the date of the execution of this Lease or of any such Advance, would
                have caused this Lease or any such Advance to be classified as an "arbitrage bond"
                within the meaning of Section 148 of the Code.

                                             4
        (F) The Lessee will at all times comply with the rebate requirements of
Section 148(f) of the Code as they pertain to this Lease, to the extent applicable.

        (G) In order to preserve the status of this Lease and the Advances as other
than "private activity bonds" as described in Sections 103(b)(1) and 141 of the
Code, as long as this Lease and any such Advances are outstanding and unpaid:

                  (I) none of the proceeds from this Lease or the Advances or any
        facilities or assets financed therewith shall be used for any "private
        business use" as that term is used in Section 141(b) of the Code and
        defined in Section 141(b)(6) of the Code;

                 (II) the Lessee will not allow any such "private business use" to
        be made of the proceeds of this Lease or the Advances or any facilities or
        assets financed therewith; and

                (III) none of the Advances or Lease Payments due hereunder shall
        be secured in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by any interest in any
        property used in any such "private business use" or by payments in respect
        of such property and shall not be derived from payments in respect of such
        property.

         (H) The Lessee will not take any action, or omit to take any action, which
action or omission would cause the interest component of the Lease Payments to
be ineligible for the exclusion from gross income as provided in Section 103 of the
Code.

        (I) The Lessee is a "governmental unit" within the meaning of Section
141(b)(6) of the Code.

        (J) The obligations of the Lessee under this Lease are not federally
guaranteed within the meaning of Section 149(b) of the Code.

        (K) This Lease and the Advances to be made pursuant hereto will not
reimburse the Lessee for any expenditures incurred prior to the date of this Lease
and do not constitute a "refunding issue" as defined in Section 1.150-1(d) of the
Regulations, and no part of the proceeds of this Lease or any such Advances will
be used to pay or discharge any obligations of the Lessee the interest on which is
or purports to be excludable from gross income under the Code or any predecessor
provision of law.

        (L) In compliance with Section 149(e) of the Code relating to information
reporting, the Lessee will file or cause to be filed with the Internal Revenue Service
Center, Ogden, UT 84201, within fifteen (15) days from the execution of this
Lease, IRS Form 8038-G or 8038-GC, as appropriate, reflecting the total aggregate
amount of Advances that can be made pursuant to this Lease.

         (M) None of the proceeds of this Lease or the Advances to be made
hereunder will be used directly or indirectly to replace funds of the Lessee used
directly or indirectly to acquire obligations at a yield materially higher than the
yield on this Lease or otherwise invested in any manner. No portion of the


                             5
Advances will be made for the purpose of investing such portion at a materially
higher yield than the yield on this Lease.

         (N) Inasmuch as Advances will be made under this Lease only when and
to the extent the Lessee reasonably determines, identifies and experiences the need
therefor, and will remain outstanding and unpaid only until such time as the Lessee
has moneys available to repay the same, the Lessee reasonably expects that (I) the
Advances will not be made sooner than necessary; (II) no proceeds from the
Advances will be invested at a yield higher than the yield on this Lease; and (III)
the Advances and this Lease will not remain outstanding and unpaid longer than
necessary.

         (O) The Lessee will either (i) spend all of the moneys advanced pursuant
to this Lease immediately upon receipt thereof, without investment, on the portion
of the Leased Property that is to be financed thereby; or (ii) invest such moneys at
the highest yield allowable and practicable under the circumstances until they are
to be spent on the portion of the Leased Property that is to be financed thereby, and
track, keep records of, and pay to the United States of America, all rebatable
arbitrage pertaining thereto, at the times, in the amounts, in the manner, and to the
extent required under Section 148(f) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations
promulgated in connection therewith. At least five percent (5%) of the total
amount of moneys that are expected to be advanced pursuant to this Lease are
reasonably expected to have been expended on the Leased Property within six (6)
months from the date of this Lease. All moneys to be advanced pursuant to this
Lease are reasonably expected to have been expended on the Leased Property no
later than the earlier of: (I) the date twelve (12) months from the date such moneys
are advanced; and (II) the date three (3) years from the date of this Lease.

        (P) This Lease and the Advances to be made hereunder are not and will
not be part of a transaction or series of transactions that attempts to circumvent the
provisions of Section 148 of the Code and the regulations promulgated in
connection therewith (I) enabling the Lessee to exploit the difference between tax-
exempt and taxable interest rates to gain a material financial advantage, and (II)
overburdening the tax-exempt bond market, as those terms are used in Section
1.148-10(a)(2) of the Regulations.

        (Q) To the best of the knowledge, information and belief of the Lessee,
the above expectations are reasonable. On the basis of the foregoing, it is not
expected that the proceeds of this Lease and the Advances to be made hereunder
will be used in a manner that would cause this Lease or such Advances to be
"arbitrage bonds" under Section 148 of the Code and the regulations promulgated
thereunder, and to the best of the knowledge, information and belief of the Lessee,
there are no other facts, estimates or circumstances that would materially change
the foregoing conclusions.

(ii) Arbitrage Rebate Under Section 148(f) of the Code. With respect to the
arbitrage rebate requirements of Section 148(f) of the Code, either (check
applicable box):

        (A) Lessee Qualifies for Small Issuer Exemption from Arbitrage Rebate.
The Lessee hereby certifies and represents that it qualifies for the exception
contained in Section 148(f)(4)(D) of the Code from the requirement to rebate


                             6
                        arbitrage earnings from investment of proceeds of the Advances made under this
                        Lease (the "Rebate Exemption") as follows:

                                     (1) The Lessee has general taxing powers.

                                     (2) Neither this Lease, any Advances to be made hereunder, nor any
                            portion thereof are private activity bonds as defined in Section 141 of the Code
                            ("Private Activity Bonds").

                                    (3) Ninety-five percent (95%) or more of the net proceeds of the
                            Advances to be made hereunder are to be used for local government activities
                            of the Lessee (or of a governmental unit, the jurisdiction of which is entirely
                            within the jurisdiction of the Lessee).

                                    (4) Neither the Lessee nor any aggregated issuer has issued or is
                            reasonably expected to issue any tax-exempt obligations other than Private
                            Activity Bonds (as those terms are used in Section 148(f)(4)(D) of the Code)
                            during the current calendar year, including the Advances to be made
                            hereunder, which in the aggregate would exceed $5,000,000 in face amount,
                            or $15,000,000 in face amount for such portions, if any, of any tax-exempt
                            obligations of the Lessee and any aggregated issuer as are attributable to
                            construction of public school facilities within the meaning of Section
                            148(f)(4)(D)(vii) of the Code.

                                    For purposes of this Section, "aggregated issuer" means any entity
                            which (a) issues obligations on behalf of the Lessee, (b) derives its issuing
                            authority from the Lessee, or (c) is subject to substantial control by the Lessee.

                                    The Lessee hereby certifies and represents that it has not created, does
                            not intend to create and does not expect to benefit from any entity formed or
                            availed of to avoid the purposes of Section 148(f)(4)(D)(i)(IV) of the Code.

                                     Accordingly, the Lessee will qualify for the Rebate Exemption granted
                            to governmental units issuing less than $5,000,000 under Section 148(f)(4)(D)
                            of the Code ($15,000,000 for the financing of public school facilities
                            construction as described above), and the Lessee shall be treated as meeting
                            the requirements of Paragraphs (2) and (3) of Section 148(f) of the Code
                            relating to the required rebate of arbitrage earnings to the United States with
                            respect to this Lease and the Advances to be made hereunder.

                                                   - or -

                                 (B) Lessee Will Keep Records of and Will Rebate Arbitrage. The
                        Lessee does not qualify for the small issuer Rebate Exemption described above,
                        and the Lessee hereby certifies and covenants that it will account for, keep the
                        appropriate records of, and pay to the United States, the rebate amount, if any,
                        earned from the investment of gross proceeds of this Lease and the Advances to
                        be made hereunder, at the times, in the amounts, and in the manner prescribed in
                        Section 148(f) of the Code and the applicable Regulations promulgated with
                        respect thereto.

        SECTION 2.2 Representations, Covenants and Warranties of the Bank. The Bank is a corporation,
duly organized, existing and in good standing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Utah, has the

                                                     7
power to enter into this Lease, is possessed of full power to own and hold real and personal property, and to
lease and sell the same, and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Lease. This Lease
constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Bank, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except
to the extent limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws or
equitable principles affecting the rights of creditors generally.


                                                 ARTICLE III

                                   AGREEMENT TO LEASE; TERM OF
                                      LEASE; LEASE PAYMENTS

        SECTION 3.1 Lease. The Bank hereby leases the Leased Property to the Lessee, and the Lessee
hereby leases the Leased Property from the Bank, upon the terms and conditions set forth herein.

       Concurrently with its execution of this Lease, the Lessee shall deliver to the Bank fully completed
documents substantially in the forms attached hereto as Exhibits B, C, D E and F hereto. Prior to the Bank
making the final Advance hereunder, Lessee shall provide the Bank an executed copy of the Delivery and
Acceptance Certificate found in Exhibit F.

         SECTION 3.2 Term. The Term of this Lease shall commence on the date of execution of this Lease,
including delivery to the Bank by the Lessee of fully completed documents in the forms set forth in Exhibits
B, C, D, E and F attached hereto, and continue until the end of the fiscal year of Lessee in effect at the
Commencement Date (the “Original Term”). Thereafter, this Lease will be extended for 4 successive
additional periods of one year coextensive with Lessee's fiscal year, except for the last such period which may
be less than a full fiscal year, (each, a “Renewal Term”) subject to an Event of Nonappropriation as described
herein below in this Section 3.2 and in Section 3.3(a), with the final Renewal Term ending on October 7,
2024, unless this Lease is terminated as hereinafter provided. The Original Term together with all scheduled
Renewal Terms shall be referred to herein as the “Scheduled Term” irrespective of whether this Lease is
terminated for any reason prior to the scheduled commencement or termination of any Renewal Term as
provided herein.

         If Lessee does not appropriate funds for the payment of Lease Payments due for any Renewal Term
in the adopted budget of the Lessee for the applicable fiscal year (an “Event of Nonappropriation”), this Lease
will terminate upon the expiration of the Original or Renewal Term then in effect and Lessee shall notify Bank
of such termination at least ten (10) days prior to the expiration of the Original or Renewal Term then in effect.

          SECTION 3.3 Termination. This Lease will terminate upon the earliest of any of the following
events:

                  (a)     upon the expiration of the Original Term or any Renewal Term of this Lease
          following an Event of Nonappropriation;

                  (b)    the exercise by Lessee of any option to purchase granted in this Lease by which
          Lessee purchases all of the Leased Property;

                   (c)    a default by Lessee and Bank's election to terminate this Lease under Article VII
          herein; or

                   (d)    the expiration of the Scheduled Term of this Lease, the Lessee having made payment
          of all Lease Payments accrued to such date.



                                                        8
                 SECTION 3.4 Lease Payments.

                (a)     Time and Amount. During the Term of this Lease and so long as this Lease has
        not terminated pursuant to Section 3.3, the Lessee agrees to pay to the Bank, its successors and
        assigns, as annual rental for the use and possession of the Leased Property, the Lease Payments
        (denominated into components of principal and interest) in the amounts specified in Exhibit A, to
        be due and payable in arrears on each payment date identified in Exhibit A (or if such day is not a
        Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) specified in Exhibit A (the “Lease Payment
        Date”).

                (b)      Rate on Overdue Payments. In the event the Lessee should fail to make any of the
        Lease Payments required in this Section, the Lease Payment in default shall continue as an
        obligation of the Lessee until the amount in default shall have been fully paid, and the Lessee agrees
        to pay the same with interest thereon, to the extent permitted by law, from the date such amount
        was originally payable at the rate equal to the original interest rate payable with respect to such
        Lease Payments.

                (c)      Additional Payments. Any additional payments required to be made by the Lessee
        hereunder, including but not limited to Sections 4.1, 5.3, and 7.4 of this Lease, shall constitute
        additional rental for the Leased Property.

        SECTION 3.5 Possession of Leased Property Upon Termination. Upon termination of this Lease
pursuant to Sections 3.3(a), or (c), the Lessee shall transfer the Leased Property to the Bank in such manner
as may be specified by the Bank, and the Bank shall have the right to take possession of the Leased Property
by virtue of the Bank’s ownership interest as lessor of the Leased Property, and the Lessee at the Bank’s
direction shall ship the Leased Property to the destination designated by the Bank by loading the Leased
Property at the Lessee’s cost and expense, on board such carrier as the Bank shall specify.

         SECTION 3.6 No Withholding. Notwithstanding any dispute between the Bank and the Lessee, in
connection with this Lease or otherwise, including a dispute as to the failure of any portion of the Leased
Property in use by or possession of the Lessee to perform the task for which it is leased, the Lessee shall make
all Lease Payments when due and shall not withhold any Lease Payments pending the final resolution of such
dispute.

         SECTION 3.7 Lease Payments to Constitute a Current Obligation of the Lessee. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Lease, the Lessee and the Bank acknowledge and agree that the obligation of the
Lessee to pay Lease Payments hereunder constitutes a current special obligation of the Lessee payable
exclusively from current and legally available funds and shall not in any way be construed to be an
indebtedness of the Lessee within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory limitation or requirement
applicable to the Lessee concerning the creation of indebtedness. The Lessee has not hereby pledged the
general tax revenues or credit of the Lessee to the payment of the Lease Payments, or the interest thereon, nor
shall this Lease obligate the Lessee to apply money of the Lessee to the payment of Lease Payments beyond
the then current Original Term or Renewal Term, as the case may be, or any interest thereon.

        SECTION 3.8 Net Lease. This Lease shall be deemed and construed to be a “net-net-net lease” and
the Lessee hereby agrees that the Lease Payments shall be an absolute net return to the Bank, free and clear
of any expenses, charges or set-offs whatsoever, except as expressly provided herein.

         SECTION 3.9 Offset. Lease Payments or other sums payable by Lessee pursuant to this Lease
shall not be subject to set-off, deduction, counterclaim or abatement and Lessee shall not be entitled to any
credit against such Lease Payments or other sums for any reason whatsoever, including, but not limited to:
(i) any accident or unforeseen circumstances; (ii) any damage or destruction of the Leased Property or any
part thereof; (iii) any restriction or interference with Lessee's use of the Leased Property; (iv) any defects,

                                                       9
breakdowns, malfunctions, or unsuitability of the Leased Property or any part thereof; or (v) any dispute
between the Lessee and the Bank, any vendor or manufacturer of any part of the Leased Property, or any
other person.


                                                ARTICLE IV

                                                INSURANCE

          SECTION 4.1 Insurance. Lessee, at Bank’s option, will either self-insure, or at Lessee’s cost, will
cause casualty insurance and property damage insurance to be carried and maintained on the Leased Property,
with all such coverages to be in such amounts sufficient to cover the value of the Leased Property at the
commencement of this Lease (as determined by the purchase price paid for the Leased Property), and public
liability insurance with respect to the Leased Property in the amounts required by law, but in no event with a
policy limit less than $1,000,000 per occurrence. All insurance shall be written in such forms, to cover such
risks, and with such insurers, as are customary for public entities such as the Lessee. A combination of self-
insurance and policies of insurance may be utilized. If policies of insurance are obtained, Lessee will cause
Bank to be a loss payee as its interest under this Lease may appear on such property damage insurance policies,
and an additional insured on a primary and noncontributory basis on such public liability insurance in an
amount equal to or exceeding the minimum limit stated herein. Subject to Section 4.2, insurance proceeds
from insurance policies or budgeted amounts from self-insurance as relating to casualty and property damage
losses will, to the extent permitted by law, be payable to Bank in an amount equal to the then outstanding
principal and accrued interest components of the Lease Payments at the time of such damage or destruction
as provided by Section 8.1. Lessee will deliver to Bank the policies or evidences of insurance or self-insurance
satisfactory to Bank, together with receipts for the applicable premiums before the Leased Property is
delivered to Lessee and at least thirty (30) days before the expiration of any such policies. By endorsement
upon the policy or by independent instrument furnished to Bank, such insurer will agree that it will give Bank
at least thirty (30) days' written notice prior to cancellation or alteration of the policy. Lessee will carry
workers compensation insurance covering all employees working on, in, or about the Leased Property, and
will require any other person or entity working on, in, or about the Leased Property to carry such coverage,
and will furnish to Bank certificates evidencing such coverages throughout the Term of this Lease.

         SECTION 4.2 Damage to or Destruction of the Leased Property. If all or any part of the Leased
Property is lost, stolen, destroyed, or damaged, Lessee will give Bank prompt notice of such event and will,
to the extent permitted by law, repair or replace the same at Lessee's cost. If such lost, stolen, destroyed or
damaged Leased Property is equipment, it shall be repaired or replaced within thirty (30) days after such event.
If such lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged Leased Property is other than equipment, it shall be repaired or
replaced within one hundred eighty (180) days after such event. Any replaced Leased Property will be
substituted in this Lease by appropriate endorsement. All insurance proceeds received by Bank under the
policies required under Section 4.1 with respect to the Leased Property lost, stolen, destroyed, or damaged,
will be paid to Lessee if the Leased Property is repaired or replaced by Lessee as required by this Section. If
Lessee fails or refuses to make the required repairs or replacement, such proceeds will be paid to Bank to the
extent of the then remaining portion of the Lease Payments to become due during the Scheduled Term of this
Lease less that portion of such Lease Payments attributable to interest which will not then have accrued as
provided in Section 8.1. No loss, theft, destruction, or damage to the Leased Property will impose any
obligation on Bank under this Lease, and this Lease will continue in full force and effect regardless of such
loss, theft, destruction, or damage. Lessee assumes all risks and liabilities, whether or not covered by
insurance, for loss, theft, destruction, or damage to the Leased Property and for injuries or deaths of persons
and damage to property however arising, whether such injury or death be with respect to agents or employees
of Lessee or of third parties, and whether such damage to property be to Lessee's property or to the property
of others.



                                                      10
                                                  ARTICLE V

                                                COVENANTS

        SECTION 5.1 Use of the Leased Property. The Lessee represents and warrants that it has an
immediate and essential need for the Leased Property to carry out and give effect to the public purposes of
the Lessee, which need is not temporary or expected to diminish in the foreseeable future, and that it expects
to make immediate use of all of the Leased Property.

        The Lessee hereby covenants that it will install, use, operate, maintain, and service the Leased
Property in accordance with all vendors’ instructions and in such a manner as to preserve all warranties and
guarantees with respect to the Leased Property.

         The Lessor hereby assigns to the Lessee, without recourse, for the Term of this Lease, all
manufacturer warranties and guaranties, express or implied, pertinent to the Leased Property, and the Lessor
directs the Lessee to obtain the customary services furnished in connection with such warranties and
guaranties at the Lessee’s expense; provided, however, that the Lessee hereby agrees that it will reassign to
the Lessor all such warranties and guaranties in the event of termination of this Lease pursuant to Sections
3.3(a) or 3.3(c).

          SECTION 5.2 Interest in the Leased Property and this Lease. Upon expiration of the Term as
provided in Section 3.3(b) or 3.3(d) hereof, all right, title and interest of the Bank in and to all of the Leased
Property shall be transferred to and vest in the Lessee, without the necessity of any additional document of
transfer.

        SECTION 5.3 Maintenance, Utilities, Taxes and Assessments.

                 (a)     Maintenance; Repair and Replacement. Throughout the Term of this Lease, as part
        of the consideration for the rental of the Leased Property, all repair and maintenance of the Leased
        Property shall be the responsibility of the Lessee, and the Lessee shall pay for or otherwise arrange
        for the payment of the cost of the repair and replacement of the Leased Property excepting ordinary
        wear and tear, and the Lessee hereby covenants and agrees that it will comply with all vendors’ and
        manufacturers’ maintenance and warranty requirements pertaining to the Leased Property. In
        exchange for the Lease Payments herein provided, the Bank agrees to provide only the Leased
        Property, as hereinbefore more specifically set forth.

                 (b)     Tax and Assessments; Utility Charges. The Lessee shall also pay or cause to be paid
        all taxes and assessments, including but not limited to utility charges, of any type or nature charged
        to the Lessee or levied, assessed or charged against any portion of the Leased Property or the
        respective interests or estates therein; provided that with respect to special assessments or other
        governmental charges that may lawfully be paid in installments over a period of years, the Lessee
        shall be obligated to pay only such installments as are required to be paid during the Term of this
        Lease as and when the same become due.

                 (c)     Contests. The Lessee may, at its expense and in its name, in good faith contest any
        such taxes, assessments, utility and other charges and, in the event of any such contest, may permit
        the taxes, assessments or other charges so contested to remain unpaid during the period of such contest
        and any appeal therefrom; provided that prior to such nonpayment it shall furnish the Bank with the
        opinion of an independent counsel acceptable to the Bank to the effect that, by nonpayment of any
        such items, the interest of the Bank in such portion of the Leased Property will not be materially
        endangered and that the Leased Property will not be subject to loss or forfeiture. Otherwise, the
        Lessee shall promptly pay such taxes, assessments or charges or make provisions for the payment
        thereof in form satisfactory to the Bank.

                                                       11
        SECTION 5.4 Modification of the Leased Property.

        (a)      Additions, Modifications and Improvements. The Lessee shall, at its own expense, have the
        right to make additions, modifications, and improvements to any portion of the Leased Property if
        such improvements are necessary or beneficial for the use of such portion of the Leased Property. All
        such additions, modifications and improvements shall thereafter comprise part of the Leased Property
        and be subject to the provisions of this Lease. Such additions, modifications and improvements shall
        not in any way damage any portion of the Leased Property or cause it to be used for purposes other
        than those authorized under the provisions of State and federal law or in any way which would impair
        the exclusion from gross income for federal income tax purposes of the interest components of the
        Lease Payments; and the Leased Property, upon completion of any additions, modifications and
        improvements made pursuant to this Section, shall be of a value which is not substantially less than
        the value of the Leased Property immediately prior to the making of such additions, modifications
        and improvements.

        (b)      No Liens. Except for Permitted Encumbrances, the Lessee will not permit (i) any liens or
        encumbrances to be established or remain against the Leased Property or (ii) any mechanic's or other
        lien to be established or remain against the Leased Property for labor or materials furnished in
        connection with any additions, modifications or improvements made by the Lessee pursuant to this
        Section; provided that if any such mechanic’s lien is established and the Lessee shall first notify or
        cause to be notified the Bank of the Lessee's intention to do so, the Lessee may in good faith contest
        any lien filed or established against the Leased Property, and in such event may permit the items so
        contested to remain undischarged and unsatisfied during the period of such contest and any appeal
        therefrom and shall provide the Bank with full security against any loss or forfeiture which might
        arise from the nonpayment of any such item, in form satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank will
        cooperate fully in any such contest.

        SECTION 5.5 Permits. The Lessee will provide all permits and licenses necessary for the
ownership, possession, operation, and use of the Leased Property, and will comply with all laws, rules,
regulations, and ordinances applicable to such ownership, possession, operation, and use. If compliance
with any law, rule, regulation, ordinance, permit, or license requires changes or additions to be made to the
Leased Property, such changes or additions will be made by the Lessee at its own expense.

         SECTION 5.6 Bank's Right to Perform for Lessee. If the Lessee fails to make any payment or to
satisfy any representation, covenant, warranty, or obligation contained herein or imposed hereby, the Bank
may (but need not) make such payment or satisfy such representation, covenant, warranty, or obligation,
and the amount of such payment and the expense of any such action incurred by the Bank, as the case may
be, will be deemed to be additional rent payable by the Lessee on the Bank’s demand.

         SECTION 5.7 Bank's Disclaimer of Warranties. The Bank has played no part in the selection of
the Leased Property, the Lessee having selected the Leased Property independently from the Bank. The
Bank, at the Lessee’s request, has acquired or arranged for the acquisition of the Leased Property and shall
lease the same to the Lessee as herein provided, the Bank’s only role being the facilitation of the financing
of the Leased Property for the Lessee. THE BANK MAKES NO WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION,
EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE VALUE, DESIGN, CONDITION, QUALITY,
DURABILITY, SUITABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR
PURPOSE OR FITNESS FOR THE USE CONTEMPLATED BY THE LESSEE OF THE LEASED
PROPERTY, OR ANY PORTION THEREOF. THE LESSEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE BANK
IS NOT A MANUFACTURER OR VENDOR OF ALL OR ANY PORTION OF THE LEASED
PROPERTY, AND THAT THE LESSEE IS LEASING THE LEASED PROPERTY AS IS. In no event
shall the Bank be liable for incidental, direct, indirect, special or consequential damages, in connection with


                                                      12
or arising out of this Lease, for the existence, furnishing, functioning or Lessee's use and possession of the
Leased Property.

         SECTION 5.8 Indemnification. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Lessee hereby
agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Bank, its directors, officers, shareholders, employees, agents,
and successors from and against any loss, claim, damage, expense, and liability resulting from or
attributable to the acquisition, construction, or use of the Leased Property. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Bank shall not be indemnified for any liability resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct
of the Bank.

        SECTION 5.9 Inclusion for Consideration as Budget Item. During the Term of this Lease, the
Lessee covenants and agrees that it shall give due consideration, in accordance with applicable law, as an item
for expenditure during its annual budget considerations, of an amount necessary to pay Lease Payments for
the Leased Property during the next succeeding Renewal Term. Nothing herein shall be construed to direct
or require that Lessee take or direct that any legislative act be done, or that the Governing Body of Lessee
improperly or unlawfully delegate any of its legislative authority.

         SECTION 5.10 Annual Financial Information. During the Term of this Lease, the Lessee covenants
and agrees to provide the Bank as soon as practicable when they are available: (i) a copy of the Lessee’s final
annual budget for each fiscal year; (ii) a copy of the Lessee’s most recent financial statements; and (iii) any
other financial reports the Bank may request from time to time.


                                                ARTICLE VI

                                   ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING

         SECTION 6.1 Assignment by the Bank. The parties hereto agree that all rights of Bank hereunder
may be assigned, transferred or otherwise disposed of, either in whole or in part, including without
limitation transfer to a trustee pursuant to a trust arrangement under which the trustee issues certificates of
participation evidencing undivided interests in this Lease and/or the rights to receive Lease Payments
hereunder, provided that notice of any such assignment, transfer or other disposition is given to Lessee.

        SECTION 6.2 Assignment and Subleasing by the Lessee. The Lessee may not assign this Lease
or sublease all or any portion of the Leased Property unless both of the following shall have occurred: (i)
the Bank shall have consented to such assignment or sublease; and (ii) the Bank shall have received
assurance acceptable to the Bank that such assignment or sublease: (A) is authorized under applicable state
law, (B) will not adversely affect the validity of this Lease, and (C) will not adversely affect the exclusion
from gross income for federal income tax purposes of the interest components of the Lease Payments.


                                               ARTICLE VII

                                EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES

        SECTION 7.1 Events of Default Defined. The following shall be “events of default” under this
Lease and the terms “events of default” and “default” shall mean, whenever they are used in this Lease, any
one or more of the following events:

                (a)     Payment Default. Failure by the Lessee to pay any Lease Payment required to be
        paid hereunder by the corresponding Lease Payment Date.

               (b)      Covenant Default. Failure by the Lessee to observe and perform any warranty,
        covenant, condition or agreement on its part to be observed or performed herein or otherwise with
                                                      13
        respect hereto other than as referred to in clause (a) of this Section, for a period of 30 days after written
        notice specifying such failure and requesting that it be remedied has been given to the Lessee by the
        Bank; provided, however, if the failure stated in the notice cannot be corrected within the applicable
        period, the Bank shall not unreasonably withhold their consent to an extension of such time if
        corrective action is instituted by the Lessee within the applicable period and diligently pursued until
        the default is corrected.

                 (c)      Bankruptcy or Insolvency. The filing by the Lessee of a case in bankruptcy, or the
        subjection of any right or interest of the Lessee under this Lease to any execution, garnishment or
        attachment, or adjudication of the Lessee as a bankrupt, or assignment by the Lessee for the benefit
        of creditors, or the entry by the Lessee into an agreement of composition with creditors, or the
        approval by a court of competent jurisdiction of a petition applicable to the Lessee in any proceedings
        instituted under the provisions of the federal bankruptcy code, as amended, or under any similar act
        which may hereafter be enacted.

         The foregoing provisions of this Section 7.1 are subject to the provisions of Section 3.2 hereof with
respect to nonappropriation.

         SECTION 7.2 Remedies on Default. Whenever any event of default referred to in Section 7.1
hereof shall have happened and be continuing, the Bank shall have the right, at its sole option without any
further demand or notice to take one or any combination of the following remedial steps:

                 (a)     take possession of the Leased Property by virtue of the Bank’s ownership interest as
        lessor of the Leased Property;

                (b)      hold the Lessee liable for the difference between (i) the rents and other amounts
        payable by Lessee hereunder to the end of the then current Original Term or Renewal Term, as
        appropriate, and (ii) the rent paid by a lessee of the Leased Property pursuant to such lease; and

                  (c)    take whatever action at law or in equity may appear necessary or desirable to enforce
        its right hereunder.

         SECTION 7.3 No Remedy Exclusive. No remedy conferred herein upon or reserved to the Bank
is intended to be exclusive and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other
remedy given under this Lease or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity. No delay or omission to
exercise any right or power accruing upon any default shall impair any such right or power or shall be
construed to be a waiver thereof, but any such right and power may be exercised from time to time and as
often as may be deemed expedient. In order to entitle the Bank to exercise any remedy reserved to it in this
Article it shall not be necessary to give any notice, other than such notice as may be required in this Article or
by law.

         SECTION 7.4 Agreement to Pay Attorneys' Fees and Expenses. In the event either party to this
Lease should default under any of the provisions hereof and the nondefaulting party should employ attorneys
or incur other expenses for the collection of moneys or the enforcement of performance or observance of any
obligation or agreement on the part of the defaulting party contained herein, the defaulting party agrees that it
will pay on demand to the nondefaulting party the reasonable fees of such attorneys and such other expenses
so incurred by the nondefaulting party.

        SECTION 7.5 Waiver of Certain Damages. With respect to all of the remedies provided for in
this Article VII, the Lessee hereby waives any damages occasioned by the Bank’s repossession of the
Leased Property upon an event of default.



                                                        14
                                              ARTICLE VIII

                           PREPAYMENT OF LEASE PAYMENTS IN PART

         SECTION 8.1 Extraordinary Prepayment From Net Proceeds. To the extent, if any, required
pursuant to Section 4.1 the Lessee shall be obligated to purchase the Leased Property by prepaying the Lease
Payments in whole or in part on any date, from and to the extent of any Net Proceeds or other moneys pursuant
to Article IV hereof. The Lessee and the Bank hereby agree that in the case of such prepayment of the Lease
Payments in part, such Net Proceeds or other moneys shall be credited toward the Lessee's obligations
hereunder pro rata among Lease Payments so that following prepayment, the remaining annual Lease
Payments will be proportional to the initial annual Lease Payments.

         SECTION 8.2 Option to Purchase Leased Property. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
Section, the Bank hereby grants an option to the Lessee to purchase all or a portion of the Leased Property
by paying on any date a price equal to the portion of the outstanding principal component of the Lease
Payments that is allocable to such portion of the Leased Property that is being so purchased, without
premium, plus the accrued interest component of such portion of the Lease Payments to such payment date.
To exercise this option, the Lessee must deliver to the Bank written notice specifying the date on which the
Leased Property is to be purchased (the “Closing Date”), which notice must be delivered to the Bank at
least thirty (30) days prior to the Closing Date specified therein. The Lessee may purchase the Leased
Property pursuant to the option granted in this Section only if the Lessee has made all Lease Payments when
due (or has remedied any defaults in the payment of Lease Payments, in accordance with the provisions of
this Lease) and all other warranties, representations, covenants, and obligations of the Lessee under this
Lease have been satisfied (or all breaches thereof have been waived by the Bank in writing).

         Upon the expiration of the Scheduled Term of this Lease and provided that all conditions of the
immediately preceding paragraph have been satisfied (except those pertaining to notice), the Lessee shall
be deemed to have purchased the Leased Property (without the need for payment of additional moneys) and
shall be vested with all rights and title to the Leased Property.


                                               ARTICLE IX

                                           MISCELLANEOUS

        SECTION 9.1 Notices. Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, all notices shall be in
writing addressed to the respective party as set forth below (or to such other address as the party to whom
such notice is intended shall have previously designated by written notice to the serving party), and may be
personally served, telecopied, or sent by overnight courier service or United States mail:

If to Bank:                                               If to the Lessee:

 ZMFU II, INC.                                             Riverton City
 One South Main Street, 17th Floor                         12830 South 1700 West
 Salt Lake City, Utah 84133                                Riverton, UT 84065
 Attention: Kirsi Hansen                                   Attention: Craig Calvert

        Such notices shall be deemed to have been given: (a) if delivered in person, when delivered; (b) if
delivered by telecopy, on the date of transmission if transmitted by 4:00 p.m. (Salt Lake City time) on a
Business Day or, if not, on the next succeeding Business Day; (c) if delivered by overnight courier, two
Business Days after delivery to such courier properly addressed; or (d) if by United States mail, four
Business Days after depositing in the United States mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed.



                                                     15
         SECTION 9.2 System of Registration. The Lessee shall be the Registrar for this Lease and the
rights to payments hereunder. The Bank shall be the initial Registered Owner of rights to receive payments
hereunder. If the Bank transfers its rights to receive payments hereunder, the Registrar shall note on this Lease
the name and address of the transferee.

         SECTION 9.3 Instruments of Further Assurance. To the extent, if any, that the Bank’s interest in
the Leased Property as Lessor under this Lease is deemed to be a security interest in the Leased Property,
then the Lessee shall be deemed to have granted, and in such event the Lessee does hereby grant, a security
interest in the Leased Property to the Bank, which security interest includes proceeds, and this Lease shall
constitute a security agreement under applicable law. Concurrently with the execution of this Lease, the
Lessee has executed, delivered, and filed and/or recorded all financing statements, UCC forms, mortgages,
deeds of trust, notices, filings, and/or other instruments, in form required for filing and/or recording thereof,
as are required under applicable law to fully perfect such security interest of the Bank in the Leased Property
(collectively, “Security Documents”). Attached hereto as Exhibit E are copies of all such Security
Documents. The Lessee will do, execute, acknowledge, deliver and record, or cause to be done, executed,
acknowledged, delivered and recorded, such additional acts, notices, filings and instruments as the Bank
may require in its sole discretion to evidence, reflect and perfect the title, ownership, leasehold interest,
security interest and/or other interest of the Bank in and to any part or all of the Leased Property, promptly
upon the request of the Bank.

       SECTION 9.4 Binding Effect. This Lease shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon
the Bank and the Lessee and their respective successors and assigns.

       SECTION 9.5 Amendments. This Lease may be amended or modified only upon the written
agreement of both the Bank and the Lessee.

         SECTION 9.6 Section Headings. Section headings are for reference only and shall not be used
to interpret this Lease.

        SECTION 9.7 Severability. In the event any provision of this Lease shall be held invalid or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, to the extent permitted by law, such holding shall not
invalidate or render unenforceable any other provision hereof.

         SECTION 9.8 Entire Agreement. This Lease and the attached Exhibits constitute the entire
agreement between the Bank and the Lessee and supersedes any prior agreement between the Bank and the
Lessee with respect to the Leased Property, except as is set forth in an Addendum, if any, which is made a
part of this Lease and which is signed by both the Bank and the Lessee.

        SECTION 9.9 Execution in Counterparts. This Lease may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which shall constitute but one and the same
instrument.

         SECTION 9.10 Arbitration. To the extent permitted by law, any dispute, controversy or claim
arising out of or based upon the terms of this Lease or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be settled
exclusively and finally by binding arbitration. Upon written demand for arbitration by any party hereto,
the parties to the dispute shall confer and attempt in good faith to agree upon one arbitrator. If the parties
have not agreed upon an arbitrator within thirty (30) days after receipt of such written demand, each party
to the dispute shall appoint one arbitrator and those two arbitrators shall agree upon a third arbitrator. Any
arbitrator or arbitrators appointed as provided in this section shall be selected from panels maintained by,
and the binding arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of, the
American Arbitration Association (or any successor organization), and such arbitration shall be binding
upon the parties. The arbitrator or arbitrators shall have no power to add or detract from the agreements of
the parties and may not make any ruling or award that does not conform to the terms and conditions of this

                                                       16
Lease. The arbitrator or arbitrators shall have no authority to award punitive damages or any other damages
not measured by the prevailing party’s actual damages. Judgment upon an arbitration award may be entered
in any court having jurisdiction. The prevailing party in the arbitration proceedings shall be awarded
reasonable attorney fees and expert witness costs and expenses.

        SECTION 9.11 Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State.



                                 [SIGNATURE PAGES TO FOLLOW]




                                                    17
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Bank has caused this Lease to be executed in its name by its duly
authorized officer, and the Lessee has caused this Lease to be executed in its name by its duly authorized
officer, as of the date first above written.

                                                                               ZMFU II, INC., as Lessor



                                                    By:
                                                                                      Authorized Officer




                                                                          RIVERTON CITY, as Lessee




                                                    By:


                                                                                                     Title




                                                   18
                                             EXHIBIT A

                                            FIXED RATE

                       LEASE PAYMENT DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE*


1. Interest. Interest components payable on the principal amount outstanding have been computed at the
rate of one and twenty-five hundredths percent ( 1.25 %) per annum calculated based on twelve 30-day
months during a 360-day year.


2. Payment Dates and Amounts.




                                                 A-1
            EXHIBIT B

DESCRIPTION OF THE LEASED PROPERTY




               B-1
                                                 EXHIBIT C

                                 RESOLUTION OF GOVERNING BODY


                 A resolution approving the form of the Non-BQ Lease/Purchase Agreement
        with ZMFU II, INC., Salt Lake City, Utah and authorizing the execution and delivery
        thereof.

         Whereas, The City Council (the “Governing Body”) of Riverton City (the “Lessee”) has determined
that the leasing of the property described in the Non-BQ Lease/Purchase Agreement (the “Lease/Purchase
Agreement”) presented at this meeting is for a valid public purpose and is essential to the operations of the
Lessee; and

        Whereas, the Governing Body has reviewed the form of the Lease/Purchase Agreement and has found
the terms and conditions thereof acceptable to the Lessee; and

        Whereas, either there are no legal bidding requirements under applicable law to arrange for the leasing
of such property under the Lease/Purchase Agreement, or the Governing Body has taken the steps necessary
to comply with the same with respect to the Lease/Purchase Agreement.

        Be it resolved by the Governing Body of Riverton City as follows:

         SECTION 1. The terms of said Lease/Purchase Agreement are in the best interests of the Lessee for
the leasing of the property described therein.

         SECTION 2. The appropriate officers and officials of the Lessee are hereby authorized and directed
to execute and deliver the Lease/Purchase Agreement in substantially the form presented to this meeting
and any related documents and certificates necessary to the consummation of the transactions contemplated
by the Lease/Purchase Agreement for and on behalf of the Lessee. The officers and officials of the Lessee
may make such changes to the Lease/Purchase Agreement and related documents and certificates as such
officers and officials deem necessary or desirable, such approval to be conclusively evidenced by the
execution and delivery thereof.

        SECTION 3. The officers and officials of the Governing Body and the Lessee are hereby
authorized and directed to fulfill all obligations under the terms of the Lease/Purchase Agreement.




                                                     C-1
          Adopted and approved this _____ day of ___________________________, 2020.




                                               By

                                               Print Name_____________________________________

                                               Title __________________________________________




Attest:

By

Print Name ___________________________________________

Title_________________________________________________




                                                 C-2
STATE OF UTAH                                                          )
                                                                       ) ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE                                                    )




       I, ___________________________ hereby certify that I am the duly qualified and acting
__________________________ of Riverton City (the “Lessee”).
       (Title)

         I further certify that the above and foregoing instrument constitutes a true and correct copy of the
minutes of a regular meeting of the governing body including a Resolution adopted at said meeting held on
September 8, 2020, as said minutes and Resolution are officially of record in my possession, and that a copy
of said Resolution was deposited in my office on ___________________, 2020.

       In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand on behalf of the Lessee this ______ day of
______________, 2020.



                                                  By

                                                  Print Name

                                                  Title




                                                    C-3
                                               EXHIBIT D
                                        Opinion of Lessee's Counsel

To:     ZMFU II, INC.
        One South Main Street, 17th Floor
        Salt Lake City, Utah 84133

         As counsel for Riverton City (“Lessee”), I have examined duly executed originals of the Non-BQ
Lease/Purchase Agreement (the “Lease”) dated this 7th day of October, 2020, between the Lessee and ZMFU
II, INC., Salt Lake City, Utah (“Bank”), and the proceedings taken by Lessee to authorize and execute the
Lease (the “Proceedings”). Based upon such examination as I have deemed necessary or appropriate, I am of
the opinion that:

        1. Lessee is a body corporate and politic, legally existing under the laws of the State of Utah (the
“State”).

        2. The Lease and the Proceedings have been duly adopted, authorized, executed, and delivered by
Lessee, and do not require the seal of Lessee to be effective, valid, legal, or binding.

        3. The governing body of Lessee has complied with all applicable open public meeting and notice
laws and requirements with respect to the meeting at which the Proceedings were adopted and the Lessee's
execution of the Lease was authorized.

        4. The Lease is a legal, valid, and binding obligation of Lessee, enforceable against Lessee in
accordance with its terms except as limited by the state and federal laws affecting remedies and by bankruptcy,
reorganization, or other laws of general application affecting the enforcement of creditor's rights generally.

        5. Either there are no usury laws of the State applicable to the Lease, or the Lease is in accordance
with and does not violate all such usury laws as may be applicable.

        6. Either there are no procurement or public bidding laws of the State applicable to the acquisition
and leasing of the Leased Property (as defined in the Lease) from the Bank under the Lease, or the acquisition
and leasing of the Leased Property from the Bank under the Lease comply with all such procurement and
public bidding laws as may be applicable.

        7. There are no legal or governmental proceedings or litigation pending or, to the best of my
knowledge, threatened or contemplated (or any basis therefor) wherein an unfavorable decision, ruling or
finding might adversely affect the transactions contemplated in or the validity of the Lease.

         8. The adoption, execution and/or delivery of the Lease and the Proceedings, and the compliance by
the Lessee with their provisions, will not conflict with or constitute a breach of or default under any court
decree or order or any agreement, indenture, lease or other instrument or any existing law or administrative
regulation, decree or order to which the Lessee is subject or by which the Lessee is or may be bound.

        9. Although we are not opining as to the ownership of the Leased Property or the priority of liens
thereon, it is also our opinion that the Security Documents attached as Exhibit E to the Lease are sufficient
in substance, form, and description, and indicated place, address, and method of filing and/or recording, to
completely and fully perfect the security interest in every portion of the Leased Property granted under the
Lease, and no other filings and/or recordings are necessary to fully perfect said security interest in the
Leased Property.
                                                                            __________________________
                                                                                 Attorney for Lessee


                                                     D-1
                            EXHIBIT E

                    SECURITY DOCUMENTS

[Attach Certificates of Title showing ZMFU II, INC. as the lien holder]




                                 E-1
                                            EXHIBIT F

                        DELIVERY AND ACCEPTANCE CERTIFICATE


To:     ZMFU II, INC.
        One South Main Street, 17th Floor
        Salt Lake City, Utah 84133


        Reference is made to the Non-BQ Lease/Purchase Agreement between the undersigned
(“Lessee”), and ZMFU II, INC. (the “Bank”), dated October 7, 2020 , (the “Lease”) and to that part
of the Leased Property described therein which comprises personal property (collectively, the
“Equipment”). In connection therewith we are pleased to confirm to you the following:

1.       All of the Equipment has been delivered to and received by the undersigned; all installation
or other work necessary prior to the use thereof has been completed; said Equipment has been
examined and/or tested and is in good operating order and condition and is in all respects
satisfactory to the undersigned and as represented, and that said Equipment has been accepted by
the undersigned and complies with all terms of the Lease. Consequently, you are hereby authorized
to pay for the Equipment in accordance with the terms of any purchase orders for the same.

2.      In the future, in the event the Equipment fails to perform as expected or represented we
will continue to honor the Lease in all respects and continue to make our rental and other payments
thereunder in the normal course of business and we will look solely to the vendor, distributor or
manufacturer for recourse.

3.       We acknowledge that the Bank is neither the vendor nor manufacturer or distributor of the
Equipment and has no control, knowledge or familiarity with the condition, capacity, functioning
or other characteristics of the Equipment.

4.      The serial number for each item of Equipment which is set forth on Exhibit “B” to the
Lease is correct.

        This certificate shall not be considered to alter, construe, or amend the terms of the Lease.

                                                  Lessee:

                                                  RIVERTON CITY

                                                  By: ___________________________________
                                                                (Authorized Signature)


                                                  Date: __________________________________




                                                F-1
