                                                                                      City Contract 22-1049-03




                           SOFTWARE AS A SERVICE AGREEMENT
This Software as a Service Agreement is made between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Client.

WHEREAS, Client selected Tyler to provide certain products and services set forth in the Investment
Summary, including providing Client with access to Tyler’s proprietary software products, and Tyler
desires to provide such products and services under the terms of this Agreement;

WHEREAS, Client is a member of Sourcewell (formerly known as National Joint Powers Alliance)
(“Sourcewell”) under member number 192805.

WHEREAS, Tyler participated in the competitive bid process in response to Sourcewell RFP #090320 by
submitting a proposal, on which Sourcewell awarded Tyler a Sourcewell contract, numbered 090320-TTI
(hereinafter, the “Sourcewell Contract”);

WHEREAS, documentation of the Sourcewell competitive bid process, as well as Tyler’s contract with
and pricing information for Sourcewell is available at https://sourcewell-mn.gov/cooperative-
purchasing/; and

WHEREAS, Client desires to purchase off the Sourcewell Contract to procure Munis software
functionality from Tyler, which Tyler agrees to deliver pursuant to the Sourcewell Contract and under
the terms and conditions set forth below;

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and promises set forth
in this Agreement, Tyler and Client agree as follows:

SECTION A – DEFINITIONS

    •   “Agreement” means this Software as a Service Agreement.
    •   “Business Travel Policy” means our business travel policy. A copy of our current Business Travel
        Policy is attached as Schedule 1 to Exhibit B.
    •   “Client” means the City of Riverton, Utah.
    •   “Data” means your data necessary to utilize the Tyler Software.
    •   “Data Storage Capacity” means the contracted amount of storage capacity for your Data
        identified in the Investment Summary.
    •   “Defect” means a failure of the Tyler Software to substantially conform to the functional
        descriptions set forth in our written proposal to you, or their functional equivalent. Future
        functionality may be updated, modified, or otherwise enhanced through our maintenance and
        support services, and the governing functional descriptions for such future functionality will be
        set forth in our then-current Documentation.
    •   “Defined Users” means the number of users that are authorized to use the SaaS Services. The
        Defined Users for the Agreement are as identified in the Investment Summary. If Exhibit A



                                                    1
    contains EnerGov labeled software, defined users mean the maximum number of named users
    that are authorized to use the EnerGov labeled modules as indicated in the Investment
    Summary.
•   “Developer” means a third party who owns the intellectual property rights to Third Party
    Software.
•   “Documentation” means any online or written documentation related to the use or
    functionality of the Tyler Software that we provide or otherwise make available to you, including
    instructions, user guides, manuals and other training or self-help documentation.
•   “Effective Date” means the date by which both your and our authorized representatives have
    signed the Agreement.
•   “Force Majeure” means an event beyond the reasonable control of you or us, including, without
    limitation, governmental action, war, riot or civil commotion, fire, natural disaster, or any other
    cause that could not with reasonable diligence be foreseen or prevented by you or us.
•   “Investment Summary” means the agreed upon cost proposal for the products and services
    attached as Exhibit A.
•   “Invoicing and Payment Policy” means the invoicing and payment policy. A copy of our current
    Invoicing and Payment Policy is attached as Exhibit B.
•   “Order Form” means an ordering document that includes a quote or investment summary and
    specifying the items to be provided by Tyler to Client, including any addenda and supplements
    thereto.
•   “SaaS Fees” means the fees for the SaaS Services identified in the Investment Summary.
•   “SaaS Services” means software as a service consisting of system administration, system
    management, and system monitoring activities that Tyler performs for the Tyler Software, and
    includes the right to access and use the Tyler Software, receive maintenance and support on the
    Tyler Software, including Downtime resolution under the terms of the SLA, and Data storage and
    archiving. SaaS Services do not include support of an operating system or hardware, support
    outside of our normal business hours, or training, consulting or other professional services.
•   “SLA” means the service level agreement. A copy of our current SLA is attached hereto as
    Exhibit C.
•   “Statement of Work” means the industry standard implementation plan describing how our
    professional services will be provided to implement the Tyler Software, and outlining your and
    our roles and responsibilities in connection with that implementation. The Statement of Work is
    attached as Exhibit E.
•   “Support Call Process” means the support call process applicable to all of our customers who
    have licensed the Tyler Software. A copy of our current Support Call Process is attached as
    Schedule 1 to Exhibit C.
•    “Third Party Hardware” means the third party hardware, if any, identified in the Investment
    Summary.
•   “Third Party Products” means the Third Party Software and Third Party Hardware.
•   “Third Party SaaS Services” means software as a service provided by a third party, if any,
    identified in the Investment Summary.
•   “Third Party Services” means the third party services, if any, identified in the Investment
    Summary.
•   “Third Party Software” means the third party software, if any, identified in the Investment
    Summary.
•   “Third Party Terms” means, if any, the end user license agreement(s) or similar terms for the
    Third Party Products or other parties’ products or services, as applicable, and attached or


                                                2
        indicated at Exhibit D.
    •   “Tyler” means Tyler Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
    •   “Tyler Software” means our proprietary software, including any integrations, custom
        modifications, and/or other related interfaces identified in the Investment Summary and
        licensed by us to you through this Agreement.
    •   “we”, “us”, “our” and similar terms mean Tyler.
    •   “you” and similar terms mean Client.

SECTION B – SAAS SERVICES

1. Rights Granted. We grant to you the non-exclusive, non-assignable limited right to use the SaaS
   Services solely for your internal business purposes for the number of Defined Users only. The Tyler
   Software will be made available to you according to the terms of the SLA. You acknowledge that we
   have no delivery obligations and we will not ship copies of the Tyler Software as part of the SaaS
   Services. You may use the SaaS Services to access updates and enhancements to the Tyler Software,
   as further described in Section C(9). The foregoing notwithstanding, to the extent we have sold you
   perpetual licenses for Tyler Software, if and listed in the Investment Summary, for which you are
   receiving SaaS Services, your rights to use such Tyler Software are perpetual, subject to the terms
   and conditions of this Agreement including, without limitation, Section B(4). We will make any such
   software available to you for download.

2. SaaS Fees. You agree to pay us the SaaS Fees. Those amounts are payable in accordance with our
   Invoicing and Payment Policy. The SaaS Fees are based on the number of Defined Users and amount
   of Data Storage Capacity. You may add additional users or additional data storage capacity on the
   terms set forth in Section H(1). In the event you regularly and/or meaningfully exceed the Defined
   Users or Data Storage Capacity, we reserve the right to charge you additional fees commensurate
   with the overage(s).

3. Ownership.

    3.1 We retain all ownership and intellectual property rights to the SaaS Services, the Tyler Software,
        and anything developed by us under this Agreement. You do not acquire under this Agreement
        any license to use the Tyler Software in excess of the scope and/or duration of the SaaS Services.

    3.2 The Documentation is licensed to you and may be used and copied by your employees for
        internal, non-commercial reference purposes only.

    3.3 You retain all ownership and intellectual property rights to the Data. You expressly recognize
        that except to the extent necessary to carry out our obligations contained in this Agreement, we
        do not create or endorse any Data used in connection with the SaaS Services.

4. Restrictions. You may not: (a) make the Tyler Software or Documentation resulting from the SaaS
   Services available in any manner to any third party for use in the third party’s business operations;
   (b) modify, make derivative works of, disassemble, reverse compile, or reverse engineer any part of
   the SaaS Services; (c) access or use the SaaS Services in order to build or support, and/or assist a
   third party in building or supporting, products or services competitive to us; or (d) license, sell, rent,
   lease, transfer, assign, distribute, display, host, outsource, disclose, permit timesharing or service
   bureau use, or otherwise commercially exploit or make the SaaS Services, Tyler Software, or


                                                      3
    Documentation available to any third party other than as expressly permitted by this Agreement.

5. Software Warranty. We warrant that the Tyler Software will perform without Defects during the
   term of this Agreement. If the Tyler Software does not perform as warranted, we will use all
   reasonable efforts, consistent with industry standards, to cure the Defect in accordance with the
   maintenance and support process set forth in Section C(9), below, the SLA and our then current
   Support Call Process.

6. SaaS Services.

    6.1 Our SaaS Services are audited at least yearly in accordance with the AICPA’s Statement on
        Standards for Attestation Engagements (“SSAE”) No. 18. We have attained, and will maintain,
        SOC 1 and SOC 2 compliance, or its equivalent, for so long as you are timely paying for SaaS
        Services. The scope of audit coverage varies for some Tyler Software solutions. Upon execution
        of a mutually agreeable Non-Disclosure Agreement (“NDA”), we will provide you with a
        summary of our compliance report(s) or its equivalent. Every year thereafter, for so long as the
        NDA is in effect and in which you make a written request, we will provide that same
        information. If our SaaS Services are provided using a 3rd party data center, we will provide
        available compliance reports for that data center.

    6.2 You will be hosted on shared hardware in a Tyler data center or in a third-party data center. In
        either event, databases containing your Data will be dedicated to you and inaccessible to our
        other customers.

    6.3 Our Tyler data centers have fully-redundant telecommunications access, electrical power, and
        the required hardware to provide access to the Tyler Software in the event of a disaster or
        component failure. In the event of a data center failure, we reserve the right to employ our
        disaster recovery plan for resumption of the SaaS Services. In that event, we commit to a
        Recovery Point Objective (“RPO”) of 24 hours and a Recovery Time Objective (“RTO”) of 24
        hours. RPO represents the maximum duration of time between the most recent recoverable
        copy of your hosted Data and subsequent data center failure. RTO represents the maximum
        duration of time following data center failure within which your access to the Tyler Software
        must be restored.

    6.4 We conduct annual penetration testing of either the production network and/or web
        application to be performed. We will maintain industry standard intrusion detection and
        prevention systems to monitor malicious activity in the network and to log and block any such
        activity. We will provide you with a written or electronic record of the actions taken by us in the
        event that any unauthorized access to your database(s) is detected as a result of our security
        protocols. We will undertake an additional security audit, on terms and timing to be mutually
        agreed to by the parties, at your written request. You may not attempt to bypass or subvert
        security restrictions in the SaaS Services or environments related to the Tyler Software.
        Unauthorized attempts to access files, passwords or other confidential information, and
        unauthorized vulnerability and penetration test scanning of our network and systems (hosted or
        otherwise) is prohibited without the prior written approval of our IT Security Officer.

    6.5 We test our disaster recovery plan on an annual basis. Our standard test is not client-specific.
        Should you request a client-specific disaster recovery test, we will work with you to schedule


                                                     4
        and execute such a test on a mutually agreeable schedule. At your written request, we will
        provide test results to you within a commercially reasonable timeframe after receipt of the
        request.

    6.6 We will be responsible for importing back-up and verifying that you can log-in. You will be
        responsible for running reports and testing critical processes to verify the returned Data.

    6.7 We provide secure Data transmission paths between each of your workstations and our servers.

    6.8 Tyler data centers are accessible only by authorized personnel with a unique key entry. All other
        visitors to Tyler data centers must be signed in and accompanied by authorized personnel.
        Entry attempts to the data center are regularly audited by internal staff and external auditors to
        ensure no unauthorized access.

    6.9 Where applicable with respect to our applications that take or process card payment data, we
        are responsible for the security of cardholder data that we possess, including functions relating
        to storing, processing, and transmitting of the cardholder data and affirm that, as of the
        Effective Date, we comply with applicable requirements to be considered PCI DSS compliant and
        have performed the necessary steps to validate compliance with the PCI DSS. We agree to
        supply the current status of our PCI DSS compliance program in the form of an official
        Attestation of Compliance, which can be found at https://www.tylertech.com/about-
        us/compliance, and in the event of any change in our status, will comply with applicable notice
        requirements.

SECTION C – PROFESSIONAL SERVICES

1. Professional Services. We will provide you the various implementation-related services itemized in
   the Investment Summary and described in the Statement of Work.

2. Professional Services Fees. You agree to pay us the professional services fees in the amounts set
   forth in the Investment Summary. Those amounts are payable in accordance with our Invoicing and
   Payment Policy. You acknowledge that the fees stated in the Investment Summary are good-faith
   estimates of the amount of time and materials required for your implementation. We will bill you
   the actual fees incurred based on the in-scope services provided to you. Any discrepancies in the
   total values set forth in the Investment Summary will be resolved by multiplying the applicable
   hourly rate by the quoted hours.

3. Additional Services. The Investment Summary contains, and the Statement of Work describes, the
   scope of services and related costs (including programming and/or interface estimates) required for
   the project based on our understanding of the specifications you supplied. If additional work is
   required, or if you use or request additional services, we will provide you with an addendum or
   change order, as applicable, outlining the costs for the additional work. The price quotes in the
   addendum or change order will be valid for thirty (30) days from the date of the quote.

4. Cancellation. If travel is required, we will make all reasonable efforts to schedule travel for our
   personnel, including arranging travel reservations, at least two (2) weeks in advance of
   commitments. Therefore, if you cancel services less than two (2) weeks in advance (other than for
   Force Majeure or breach by us), you will be liable for all (a) non-refundable expenses incurred by us


                                                    5
    on your behalf, and (b) daily fees associated with cancelled professional services if we are unable to
    reassign our personnel. We will make all reasonable efforts to reassign personnel in the event you
    cancel within two (2) weeks of scheduled commitments.

5. Services Warranty. We will perform the services in a professional, workmanlike manner, consistent
   with industry standards. In the event we provide services that do not conform to this warranty, we
   will re-perform such services at no additional cost to you.

6. Site Access and Requirements. At no cost to us, you agree to provide us with full and free access to
   your personnel, facilities, and equipment as may be reasonably necessary for us to provide
   implementation services, subject to any reasonable security protocols or other written policies
   provided to us as of the Effective Date, and thereafter as mutually agreed to by you and us.

7. Background Checks. For at least the past twelve (12) years, all of our employees have undergone
   criminal background checks prior to hire. All employees sign our confidentiality agreement and
   security policies.

8. Client Assistance. You acknowledge that the implementation of the Tyler Software is a cooperative
   process requiring the time and resources of your personnel. You agree to use all reasonable efforts
   to cooperate with and assist us as may be reasonably required to meet the agreed upon project
   deadlines and other milestones for implementation. This cooperation includes at least working with
   us to schedule the implementation-related services outlined in this Agreement. We will not be
   liable for failure to meet any deadlines and milestones when such failure is due to Force Majeure or
   to the failure by your personnel to provide such cooperation and assistance (either through action
   or omission).

9. Maintenance and Support. For so long as you timely pay your SaaS Fees according to the Invoicing
   and Payment Policy, then in addition to the terms set forth in the SLA and the Support Call Process,
   we will:

    9.1 perform our maintenance and support obligations in a professional, good, and workmanlike
        manner, consistent with industry standards, to resolve Defects in the Tyler Software (subject to
        any applicable release life cycle policy);

    9.2 provide support during our established support hours;

    9.3 maintain personnel that are sufficiently trained to be familiar with the Tyler Software and Third
        Party Software, if any, in order to provide maintenance and support services;

    9.4 make available to you all releases to the Tyler Software (including updates and enhancements)
        that we make generally available without additional charge to customers who have a
        maintenance and support agreement in effect; and

    9.5 provide non-Defect resolution support of prior releases of the Tyler Software in accordance with
        any applicable release life cycle policy.

We will use all reasonable efforts to perform support services remotely. Currently, we use a third-party
secure unattended connectivity tool called Bomgar, as well as GotoAssist by Citrix. Therefore, you agree


                                                    6
to maintain a high-speed internet connection capable of connecting us to your PCs and server(s). You
agree to provide us with a login account and local administrative privileges as we may reasonably
require to perform remote services. We will, at our option, use the secure connection to assist with
proper diagnosis and resolution, subject to any reasonably applicable security protocols. If we cannot
resolve a support issue remotely, we may be required to provide onsite services. In such event, we will
be responsible for our travel expenses, unless it is determined that the reason onsite support was
required was a reason outside our control. Either way, you agree to provide us with full and free access
to the Tyler Software, working space, adequate facilities within a reasonable distance from the
equipment, and use of machines, attachments, features, or other equipment reasonably necessary for
us to provide the maintenance and support services, all at no charge to us. We strongly recommend
that you also maintain your VPN for backup connectivity purposes.

For the avoidance of doubt, SaaS Fees do not include the following services: (a) onsite support (unless
Tyler cannot remotely correct a Defect in the Tyler Software, as set forth above); (b) application design;
(c) other consulting services; or (d) support outside our normal business hours as listed in our then-
current Support Call Process. Requested services such as those outlined in this section will be billed to
you on a time and materials basis at our then current rates. You must request those services with at
least one (1) weeks’ advance notice.

SECTION D – THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS

1. Third Party Hardware. We will sell, deliver, and install onsite the Third Party Hardware, if you have
   purchased any, for the price set forth in the Investment Summary. Those amounts are payable in
   accordance with our Invoicing and Payment Policy.

2. Third Party Software. As part of the SaaS Services, you will receive access to the Third Party
   Software and related documentation for internal business purposes only. Your rights to the Third
   Party Software will be governed by the Third Party Terms.

3. Third Party Products Warranties.

    3.1 We are authorized by each Developer to grant access to the Third Party Software.

    3.2 The Third Party Hardware will be new and unused, and upon payment in full, you will receive
        free and clear title to the Third Party Hardware.

    3.3 You acknowledge that we are not the manufacturer of the Third Party Products. We do not
        warrant or guarantee the performance of the Third Party Products. However, we grant and pass
        through to you any warranty that we may receive from the Developer or supplier of the Third
        Party Products.

4. Third Party Services. If you have purchased Third Party Services, those services will be provided
   independent of Tyler by such third-party at the rates set forth in the Investment Summary and in
   accordance with our Invoicing and Payment Policy.

SECTION E - INVOICING AND PAYMENT; INVOICE DISPUTES

1. Invoicing and Payment. We will invoice you the SaaS Fees and fees for other professional services in


                                                     7
    the Investment Summary per our Invoicing and Payment Policy, subject to Section E(2).

2. Invoice Disputes. If you believe any delivered software or service does not conform to the
   warranties in this Agreement, you will provide us with written notice within thirty (30) days of your
   receipt of the applicable invoice. The written notice must contain reasonable detail of the issues
   you contend are in dispute so that we can confirm the issue and respond to your notice with either a
   justification of the invoice, an adjustment to the invoice, or a proposal addressing the issues
   presented in your notice. We will work with you as may be necessary to develop an action plan that
   outlines reasonable steps to be taken by each of us to resolve any issues presented in your notice.
   You may withhold payment of the amount(s) actually in dispute, and only those amounts, until we
   complete the action items outlined in the plan. If we are unable to complete the action items
   outlined in the action plan because of your failure to complete the items agreed to be done by you,
   then you will remit full payment of the invoice. We reserve the right to suspend delivery of all SaaS
   Services, including maintenance and support services, if you fail to pay an invoice not disputed as
   described above within fifteen (15) days of notice of our intent to do so.

SECTION F – TERM AND TERMINATION

1. Term. The initial term of this Agreement is equal to the number of years indicated for SaaS Services
   in Exhibit A, commencing on the first day of the first month following the date Tyler makes the SaaS
   environment available to you, unless earlier terminated as set forth below. If no duration is
   indicated in Exhibit A, the initial term is one (1) year. Upon expiration of the initial term, this
   Agreement will renew automatically for additional one (1) year renewal terms at our then-current
   SaaS Fees unless terminated in writing by either party at least sixty (60) days prior to the end of the
   then-current renewal term. Your right to access or use the Tyler Software and the SaaS Services will
   terminate at the end of this Agreement.

2. Termination. This Agreement may be terminated as set forth below. In the event of termination,
   you will pay us for all undisputed fees and expenses related to the software, products, and/or
   services you have received, or we have incurred or delivered, prior to the effective date of
   termination. Disputed fees and expenses in all terminations other than your termination for cause
   must have been submitted as invoice disputes in accordance with Section E(2).

    2.1 Failure to Pay SaaS Fees. You acknowledge that continued access to the SaaS Services is
        contingent upon your timely payment of SaaS Fees. If you fail to timely pay the SaaS Fees, we
        may discontinue the SaaS Services and deny your access to the Tyler Software. We may also
        terminate this Agreement if you don’t cure such failure to pay within forty-five (45) days of
        receiving written notice of our intent to terminate.

    2.2 For Cause. If you believe we have materially breached this Agreement, you will invoke the
        Dispute Resolution clause set forth in Section H(3). You may terminate this Agreement for cause
        in the event we do not cure, or create a mutually agreeable action plan to address, a material
        breach of this Agreement within the thirty (30) day window set forth in Section H(3).

    2.3 Force Majeure. Either party has the right to terminate this Agreement if a Force Majeure event
        suspends performance of the SaaS Services for a period of forty-five (45) days or more.

    2.4 Lack of Appropriations. If you should not appropriate or otherwise make available funds


                                                    8
       sufficient to utilize the SaaS Services, you may unilaterally terminate this Agreement upon thirty
       (30) days written notice to us. You will not be entitled to a refund or offset of previously paid,
       but unused SaaS Fees. You agree not to use termination for lack of appropriations as a
       substitute for termination for convenience.

SECTION G – INDEMNIFICATION, LIMITATION OF LIABILITY AND INSURANCE

1. Intellectual Property Infringement Indemnification.

   1.1 We will defend you against any third party claim(s) that the Tyler Software or Documentation
       infringes that third party’s patent, copyright, or trademark, or misappropriates its trade secrets,
       and will pay the amount of any resulting adverse final judgment (or settlement to which we
       consent). You must notify us promptly in writing of the claim and give us sole control over its
       defense or settlement. You agree to provide us with reasonable assistance, cooperation, and
       information in defending the claim at our expense.

   1.2 Our obligations under this Section G(1) will not apply to the extent the claim or adverse final
       judgment is based on your use of the Tyler Software in contradiction of this Agreement,
       including with non-licensed third parties, or your willful infringement.

   1.3 If we receive information concerning an infringement or misappropriation claim related to the
       Tyler Software, we may, at our expense and without obligation to do so, either: (a) procure for
       you the right to continue its use; (b) modify it to make it non-infringing; or (c) replace it with a
       functional equivalent, in which case you will stop running the allegedly infringing Tyler Software
       immediately. Alternatively, we may decide to litigate the claim to judgment, in which case you
       may continue to use the Tyler Software consistent with the terms of this Agreement.

   1.4 If an infringement or misappropriation claim is fully litigated and your use of the Tyler Software
       is enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction, in addition to paying any adverse final
       judgment (or settlement to which we consent), we will, at our option, either: (a) procure the
       right to continue its use; (b) modify it to make it non-infringing; or (c) replace it with a functional
       equivalent. This section provides your exclusive remedy for third party copyright, patent, or
       trademark infringement and trade secret misappropriation claims.

2. General Indemnification.

   2.1 We will indemnify and hold harmless you and your agents, officials, and employees from and
       against any and all third-party claims, losses, liabilities, damages, costs, and expenses (including
       reasonable attorney's fees and costs) for (a) personal injury or property damage to the extent
       caused by our negligence or willful misconduct; or (b) our violation of PCI-DSS requirements or a
       law applicable to our performance under this Agreement. You must notify us promptly in
       writing of the claim and give us sole control over its defense or settlement. You agree to
       provide us with reasonable assistance, cooperation, and information in defending the claim at
       our expense.

   2.2 To the extent permitted by applicable law, you will indemnify and hold harmless us and our
       agents, officials, and employees from and against any and all third-party claims, losses,
       liabilities, damages, costs, and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees and costs) for


                                                     9
        personal injury or property damage to the extent caused by your negligence or willful
        misconduct; or (b) your violation of a law applicable to your performance under this Agreement.
        We will notify you promptly in writing of the claim and will give you sole control over its defense
        or settlement. We agree to provide you with reasonable assistance, cooperation, and
        information in defending the claim at your expense.

3. DISCLAIMER. EXCEPT FOR THE EXPRESS WARRANTIES PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT AND TO
   THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, WE HEREBY DISCLAIM ALL OTHER
   WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT
   NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES, DUTIES, OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
   FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. CLIENT UNDERSTANDS AND AGREES THAT TYLER
   DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY FOR ERRORS THAT RELATE TO USER ERROR.

4. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT,
   OUR LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER BASED ON A THEORY
   OF CONTRACT OR TORT, INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE AND STRICT LIABILITY, SHALL BE LIMITED TO
   YOUR ACTUAL DIRECT DAMAGES, NOT TO EXCEED (A) DURING THE INITIAL TERM, AS SET FORTH
   IN SECTION F(1), TOTAL FEES PAID AS OF THE TIME OF THE CLAIM; OR (B) DURING ANY RENEWAL
   TERM, THE THEN-CURRENT ANNUAL SAAS FEES PAYABLE IN THAT RENEWAL TERM. THE PARTIES
   ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT THE PRICES SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT ARE SET IN
   RELIANCE UPON THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT ALLOWED UNDER
   APPLICABLE LAW, THE EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN DAMAGES, AND EACH SHALL APPLY REGARDLESS
   OF THE FAILURE OF AN ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY REMEDY. THE FOREGOING LIMITATION OF
   LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO CLAIMS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO SECTIONS G(1) AND G(2).

5. EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN DAMAGES. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW,
   IN NO EVENT SHALL WE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, INDIRECT, OR
   CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, EVEN IF WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
   OF SUCH DAMAGES. THE FOREGOING LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO CLAIMS
   THAT ARE SUBJECT TO SECTIONS G(1) AND G(2).

6. Insurance. During the course of performing services under this Agreement, we agree to maintain
   the following levels of insurance: (a) Commercial General Liability of at least $1,000,000; (b)
   Automobile Liability of at least $1,000,000; (c) Professional Liability of at least $1,000,000; (d)
   Workers Compensation complying with applicable statutory requirements; and (e) Excess/Umbrella
   Liability of at least $5,000,000. We will add you as an additional insured to our Commercial General
   Liability and Automobile Liability policies, which will automatically add you as an additional insured
   to our Excess/Umbrella Liability policy as well. We will provide you with copies of certificates of
   insurance upon your written request.

SECTION H – GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1. Additional Products and Services. You may purchase additional products and services at the rates
   set forth in the Investment Summary for twelve (12) months from the Effective Date by executing a
   mutually agreed addendum. If no rate is provided in the Investment Summary, or those twelve (12)
   months have expired, you may purchase additional products and services at our then-current list
   price, also by executing a mutually agreed addendum. The terms of this Agreement will control any
   such additional purchase(s), unless otherwise specifically provided in the addendum.


                                                    10
2. Optional Items. Pricing for any listed optional products and services in the Investment Summary will
   be valid for twelve (12) months from the Effective Date.

3. Dispute Resolution. You agree to provide us with written notice within thirty (30) days of becoming
   aware of a dispute. You agree to cooperate with us in trying to reasonably resolve all disputes,
   including, if requested by either party, appointing a senior representative to meet and engage in
   good faith negotiations with our appointed senior representative. Senior representatives will
   convene within thirty (30) days of the written dispute notice, unless otherwise agreed. All meetings
   and discussions between senior representatives will be deemed confidential settlement discussions
   not subject to disclosure under Federal Rule of Evidence 408 or any similar applicable state rule. If
   we fail to resolve the dispute, then the parties shall participate in non-binding mediation in an effort
   to resolve the dispute. If the dispute remains unresolved after mediation, then either of us may
   assert our respective rights and remedies in a court of competent jurisdiction. Nothing in this
   section shall prevent you or us from seeking necessary injunctive relief during the dispute resolution
   procedures.

4. Taxes. The fees in the Investment Summary do not include any taxes, including, without limitation,
   sales, use, or excise tax. If you are a tax-exempt entity, you agree to provide us with a tax-exempt
   certificate. Otherwise, we will pay all applicable taxes to the proper authorities and you will
   reimburse us for such taxes. If you have a valid direct-pay permit, you agree to provide us with a
   copy. For clarity, we are responsible for paying our income taxes, both federal and state, as
   applicable, arising from our performance of this Agreement.

5. Nondiscrimination. We will not discriminate against any person employed or applying for
   employment concerning the performance of our responsibilities under this Agreement. This
   discrimination prohibition will apply to all matters of initial employment, tenure, and terms of
   employment, or otherwise with respect to any matter directly or indirectly relating to employment
   concerning race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, ancestry, disability that
   is unrelated to the individual's ability to perform the duties of a particular job or position, height,
   weight, marital status, or political affiliation. We will post, where appropriate, all notices related to
   nondiscrimination as may be required by applicable law.

6. E-Verify. We have complied, and will comply, with the E-Verify procedures administered by the U.S.
   Citizenship and Immigration Services Verification Division for all of our employees assigned to your
   project.

7. Subcontractors. We will not subcontract any services under this Agreement without your prior
   written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld.

8. Binding Effect; No Assignment. This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall be for the benefit of,
   either your or our successor(s) or permitted assign(s). Neither party may assign this Agreement
   without the prior written consent of the other party; provided, however, your consent is not
   required for an assignment by us as a result of a corporate reorganization, merger, acquisition, or
   purchase of substantially all of our assets.

9. Force Majeure. Except for your payment obligations, neither party will be liable for delays in
   performing its obligations under this Agreement to the extent that the delay is caused by Force


                                                      11
    Majeure; provided, however, that within ten (10) business days of the Force Majeure event, the
    party whose performance is delayed provides the other party with written notice explaining the
    cause and extent thereof, as well as a request for a reasonable time extension equal to the
    estimated duration of the Force Majeure event.

10. No Intended Third Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is entered into solely for the benefit of you
    and us. No third party will be deemed a beneficiary of this Agreement, and no third party will have
    the right to make any claim or assert any right under this Agreement. This provision does not affect
    the rights of third parties under any Third Party Terms.

11. Entire Agreement; Amendment. This Agreement represents the entire agreement between you and
    us with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes any prior agreements, understandings,
    and representations, whether written, oral, expressed, implied, or statutory. Purchase orders
    submitted by you, if any, are for your internal administrative purposes only, and the terms and
    conditions contained in those purchase orders will have no force or effect. This Agreement may
    only be modified by a written amendment signed by an authorized representative of each party.

12. Severability. If any term or provision of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, the
    remainder of this Agreement will be considered valid and enforceable to the fullest extent
    permitted by law.

13. No Waiver. In the event that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not strictly enforced
    by either party, such non-enforcement will not act as or be deemed to act as a waiver or
    modification of this Agreement, nor will such non-enforcement prevent such party from enforcing
    each and every term of this Agreement thereafter.

14. Independent Contractor. We are an independent contractor for all purposes under this Agreement.

15. Notices. All notices or communications required or permitted as a part of this Agreement, such as
    notice of an alleged material breach for a termination for cause or a dispute that must be submitted
    to dispute resolution, must be in writing and will be deemed delivered upon the earlier of the
    following: (a) actual receipt by the receiving party; (b) upon receipt by sender of a certified mail,
    return receipt signed by an employee or agent of the receiving party; (c) upon receipt by sender of
    proof of email delivery; or (d) if not actually received, five (5) days after deposit with the United
    States Postal Service authorized mail center with proper postage (certified mail, return receipt
    requested) affixed and addressed to the other party at the address set forth on the signature page
    hereto or such other address as the party may have designated by proper notice. The consequences
    for the failure to receive a notice due to improper notification by the intended receiving party of a
    change in address will be borne by the intended receiving party.

16. Client Lists. You agree that we may identify you by name in client lists, marketing presentations, and
    promotional materials.

17. Confidentiality. Both parties recognize that their respective employees and agents, in the course of
    performance of this Agreement, may be exposed to confidential information and that disclosure of
    such information could violate rights to private individuals and entities, including the parties.
    Confidential information is nonpublic information that a reasonable person would believe to be
    confidential and includes, without limitation, personal identifying information (e.g., social security


                                                    12
    numbers) and trade secrets, each as defined by applicable state law. Each party agrees that it will
    not disclose any confidential information of the other party and further agrees to take all reasonable
    and appropriate action to prevent such disclosure by its employees or agents. The confidentiality
    covenants contained herein will survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement. This
    obligation of confidentiality will not apply to information that:
        (a) is in the public domain, either at the time of disclosure or afterwards, except by breach of
            this Agreement by a party or its employees or agents;
        (b) a party can establish by reasonable proof was in that party's possession at the time of initial
            disclosure;
        (c) a party receives from a third party who has a right to disclose it to the receiving party; or
        (d) is the subject of a legitimate disclosure request under the open records laws or similar
            applicable public disclosure laws governing this Agreement; provided, however, that in the
            event you receive an open records or other similar applicable request, you will give us
            prompt notice and otherwise perform the functions required by applicable law.

18. Quarantining of Client Data. Some services provided by Tyler require us to be in possession of your
    Data. In the event we detect malware or other conditions associated with your Data that are
    reasonably suspected of putting Tyler resources or other Tyler clients’ data at risk, we reserve the
    absolute right to move your Data from its location within a multi-tenancy Tyler hosted environment
    to an isolated “quarantined” environment without advance notice. Your Data will remain in such
    quarantine for a period of at least six (6) months during which time we will review the Data, and all
    traffic associated with the Data, for signs of malware or other similar issues. If no issues are
    detected through such reviews during the six (6) month period of quarantine, we will coordinate
    with you the restoration of your Data to a non-quarantined environment. In the event your Data
    must remain in quarantine beyond this six (6) month period through no fault of Tyler’s, we reserve
    the right to require payment of additional fees for the extended duration of quarantine. We will
    provide an estimate of what those costs will be upon your request.

19. Business License. In the event a local business license is required for us to perform services
    hereunder, you will promptly notify us and provide us with the necessary paperwork and/or contact
    information so that we may timely obtain such license.

20. Governing Law. This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
    your state of domicile, without regard to its rules on conflicts of law.

21. Multiple Originals and Authorized Signatures. This Agreement may be executed in multiple
    originals, any of which will be independently treated as an original document. Any electronic, faxed,
    scanned, photocopied, or similarly reproduced signature on this Agreement or any amendment
    hereto will be deemed an original signature and will be fully enforceable as if an original signature.
    Each party represents to the other that the signatory set forth below is duly authorized to bind that
    party to this Agreement.

22. Cooperative Procurement. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, we agree that this
    Agreement may be used as a cooperative procurement vehicle by eligible jurisdictions. We reserve
    the right to negotiate and customize the terms and conditions set forth herein, including but not
    limited to pricing, to the scope and circumstances of that cooperative procurement.

23. Socrata Solution Terms. Your use of certain Tyler solutions includes Tyler’s Socrata data platform.


                                                    13
      Your rights, and the rights of any of your end users, to use Tyler’s Socrata data platform is subject to
      the Socrata SaaS Services Terms of Service, available at https://www.tylertech.com/terms/socrata-
      saas-services-terms-of-service. By signing a Tyler Agreement or Order Form, or accessing, installing,
      or using any of the Tyler solutions listed at the linked terms, you certify that you have reviewed,
      understand, and agree to said terms.

24. Contract Documents. This Agreement includes the following exhibits:

          Exhibit A        Investment Summary
          Exhibit B        Invoicing and Payment Policy
                           Schedule 1: Business Travel Policy
          Exhibit C        Service Level Agreement
                           Schedule 1: Support Call Process
          Exhibit D        Third Party Terms
                           Schedule 1: Hyperlinked Terms
                           Schedule 2: DocOrigin Terms
          Exhibit E        Statement of Work

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, a duly authorized representative of each party has executed this Agreement as
of the date(s) set forth below.


Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                    City of Riverton, Utah

By:                                                         By:

Name: Robert Kennedy-Jensen                                 Name:

Title: Group General Counsel                                Title:

Date: May 5, 2022                                           Date:

Address for Notices:                                        Address for Notices:
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                    City of Riverton
One Tyler Drive                                             12830 South Redwood Road
Yarmouth, ME 04096                                          Riverton, UT 84065-6609
Attention: Chief Legal Officer                              Attention: ______________________________




                                                       14
                                                                                              Exhibit A




                                           Exhibit A
                                     Investment Summary
The following Investment Summary details the software and services to be delivered by us to you under
the Agreement. This Investment Summary is effective as of the Effective Date. Capitalized terms not
otherwise defined will have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Agreement.



                          REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                                                  1
                                                       Quoted By:                 Maddie McCambridge
                                                       Quote Expiration:                        06/30/22
                                                       Quote Name:                    Riverton UT - ERP -
                                                                                         Munis+EG+EAM
                                                       Quote Description:         City of Riverton - ERP -
                                                                                         Munis+EG+EAM
                                                       Saas Term                                      3.00
Sales Quotation For:
Kevin Hicks
City of Riverton
12830 S Redwood Rd
Riverton UT 84065-6609
Phone: 8012540704


Tyler SaaS and Related Services


Description                                                Qty      Imp. Hours                 Annual Fee
 Financial Management
 Accounting                                                  1              112               $ 17,519.00
 Accounts Payable                                            1               32                $ 5,062.00
 Budgeting                                                   1               48                $ 5,062.00
 Capital Assets                                              1               40                $ 4,266.00
 Cash Management                                             1               28                $ 2,902.00
 Contract Management                                         1               24                $ 1,914.00
 eProcurement                                                1               24                $ 2,902.00
 Inventory                                                   1               40                $ 3,965.00
 Project & Grant Accounting                                  1               32                $ 3,407.00
 Purchasing                                                  1               80                $ 7,338.00
 Quatred Inventory Scanning Interface                        1               16                $ 1,328.00
 Human Resources Management
 Human Resources & Talent Management                         1              88                 $ 5,588.00

2021-279496-K8L9P8                      CONFIDENTIAL                                                Page 1
 Payroll w/ESS                                                             1    168    $ 6,872.00
 Recruiting                                                                1     16    $ 1,258.00
 Time & Attendance - Up to 250 Employees                                   1     96   $ 10,596.00
 Time & Attendance Mobile Access                                           1      0    $ 2,553.00
 Revenue Management
 Accounts Receivable                                                       1     64    $ 3,724.00
 Cashiering                                                                1     40    $ 6,380.00
 General Billing                                                           1     32    $ 2,485.00
 Utility Billing CIS including Graphing Agent                              1    240   $ 11,930.00
 Utility Billing Meter Interface                                           1     24    $ 2,663.00
 Civic Services
 Business Management Suite                                                 2    112    $ 2,112.00
 Civic Access - Business Management                                        1     24    $ 6,263.00
 Civic Access - Community Development                                      1     24    $ 6,263.00
 Community Development Suite                                               9    248    $ 9,504.00
 Decision Engine                                                           1      8    $ 7,000.00
 e-Reviews                                                                 1     80    $ 9,540.00
 Enterprise Permitting & Licensing Core Foundation Bundle                  1     16    $ 2,012.00
 Enterprise Permitting & Licensing View Only License                       5      0    $ 1,760.00
 Enterprise Service Requests                                               1    100    $ 2,935.00
 GIS Site License                                                          1      0   $ 13,702.00
 Parks and Recreation                                                      1     80    $ 5,835.00
 Report Toolkit                                                            1      0    $ 1,926.00
 Resident Access                                                           1     40    $ 3,724.00
 Workforce Mobile                                                          4     16    $ 1,408.00
 Enterprise Asset Management
 Asset Maintenance                                                         12   136   $ 10,992.00
 Asset Performance                                                         12    80    $ 3,624.00
 Internal Requests License                                                  1     0    $ 1,109.00
 Content Management
 Content Manager Enterprise                                                1    80    $ 14,847.00
 Data Insights
 Capital Projects Explorer                                                 1     0     $ 6,000.00

2021-279496-K8L9P8                                          CONFIDENTIAL                   Page 2
 Enterprise Analytics and Reporting w Executive Insights                                      1               80                    $ 16,186.00
 Enterprise Permitting & Licensing Advanced Automation Bundle                                 1                8                     $ 1,460.00
 Additional
 Enterprise Forms Processing (including Common Form Set)                                      1                0                     $ 4,298.00
 Subscription Fees
 ACFR Statement Builder                                                                       1               32                     $ 6,070.00



                                                                      Sub-Total:                                                   $ 248,284.00
                                                                Less Discount:                                                      $ 30,472.00
                                                                         TOTAL                               2408                  $ 217,812.00


Professional Services


Description                                                                        Quantity    Unit Price      Extended Price      Maintenance
Business Management Enterprise Forms Library (6 Enterprise Forms)                        1    $ 3,825.00           $ 3,825.00           $ 0.00
Community Development Enterprise Forms Library (5 Enterprise Forms)                      1    $ 3,825.00           $ 3,825.00           $ 0.00
Contingency Implementation (utilized upon city approval) - Remote                     120       $ 163.00          $ 19,560.00           $ 0.00
Executive Insights Implementation                                                        1    $ 4,800.00           $ 4,800.00           $ 0.00
Install Fee - Capital Projects Explorer                                                  1    $ 1,600.00           $ 1,600.00           $ 0.00
Project Management                                                                    364       $ 163.00          $ 59,332.00           $ 0.00
Conversions – See Detailed Breakdown Below                                                                        $ 53,375.00            $ 0.00
Onsite Implementation                                                                  636        $ 195.00       $ 124,020.00            $ 0.00
Remote Implementation                                                                 1772        $ 163.00       $ 288,836.00            $ 0.00
                                                                      TOTAL                                         $ 559,173.00         $ 0.00

Transaction Fees


Description
Enterprise ERP Payments
Enterprise ERP Payments POS

2021-279496-K8L9P8                                                     CONFIDENTIAL                                                      Page 3
 Enterprise Permitting & Licensing Payments
 Enterprise Permitting & Licensing Payments POS
 Tyler Enterprise Payments

 3rd Party Hardware, Software and Services
                                                                                                                                   Unit
                                                                                             Unit                       Unit Maint/SaaS         Total
 Description                                                   Qty       Unit Price     Discount    Total Price   Maint/SaaS   Discount   Maint/SaaS
 Hand Held Scanner - Model 1950GSR                               1         $ 450.00        $ 0.00     $ 450.00         $ 0.00    $ 0.00       $ 0.00
 Hand Held Scanner Stand                                         1          $ 30.00        $ 0.00      $ 30.00         $ 0.00    $ 0.00       $ 0.00
 Printer (TM-S9000II)                                            1       $ 1,623.00        $ 0.00   $ 1,623.00         $ 0.00    $ 0.00       $ 0.00
 Quatred Bar Code Printer Kit                                    1       $ 1,095.00        $ 0.00   $ 1,095.00         $ 0.00    $ 0.00       $ 0.00
 Quatred QUICK Inventory Starter Kit                             1       $ 7,292.00        $ 0.00   $ 7,292.00         $ 0.00    $ 0.00       $ 0.00
 Quatred Remote Professional Services                            1       $ 2,880.00        $ 0.00   $ 2,880.00         $ 0.00    $ 0.00       $ 0.00

                                                  TOTAL                                             $ 13,370.00                               $ 0.00


Summary                                                              One Time Fees                  Recurring Fees
Total Tyler Software                                                         $ 0.00                          $ 0.00
Total Annual                                                                 $ 0.00                   $ 217,812.00
Total Tyler Services                                                  $ 559,173.00                           $ 0.00
Total Third-Party Hardware, Software, Services                         $ 13,370.00                           $ 0.00
Summary Total                                                         $ 572,543.00                    $ 217,812.00
Contract Total                                                       $ 1,225,979.00
 Estimated Travel Expenses excl in Contract Total                      $ 35,000.00


 Unless otherwise indicated in the contract or amendment thereto, pricing for optional items will be held
 For six (6) months from the Quote date or the Effective Date of the Contract, whichever is later.

 Customer Approval:                                                            Date:

 Print Name:                                                                   P.O.#:

2021-279496-K8L9P8                                                         CONFIDENTIAL                                                        Page 4
 All Primary values quoted in US Dollars

Detailed Breakdown of Conversions (Included in Summary Total)
Description                                                                    Qty    Unit Price   Unit Discount   Extended Price
Accounting
AC - Actuals up to 3 years                                                      1     $ 1,000.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,000.00
AC - Budgets up to 3 years                                                      1     $ 1,000.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,000.00
AC Standard COA                                                                 1     $ 2,000.00          $ 0.00       $ 2,000.00
Accounts Payable
AP - Checks up to 5 years                                                       1     $ 2,200.00          $ 0.00       $ 2,200.00
AP - Invoice up to 5 years                                                      1     $ 2,800.00          $ 0.00       $ 2,800.00
AP Standard Master                                                              1     $ 1,200.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,200.00
Conversions
Community Development                                                           1    $ 10,575.00          $ 0.00     $ 10,575.00
Inventory
IN Std Master                                                                   1     $ 2,400.00          $ 0.00       $ 2,400.00
Payroll
PR Payroll - Accrual Balances                                                   1     $ 1,500.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,500.00
PR Payroll - Check History up to 5 years                                        1     $ 1,200.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,200.00
PR Payroll - Deductions                                                         1     $ 1,800.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,800.00
PR Payroll - Earning/Deduction Hist up to 5 years                               1     $ 2,500.00          $ 0.00       $ 2,500.00
PR Payroll - Standard                                                           1     $ 2,000.00          $ 0.00       $ 2,000.00
Utility Billing
Utility Billing - Balance Forward AR                                            1     $ 5,600.00          $ 0.00       $ 5,600.00
Utility Billing - Consumption History up to 5 years                             1     $ 2,000.00          $ 0.00       $ 2,000.00
Utility Billing - Flat Inventory/Containers                                     1     $ 3,600.00          $ 0.00       $ 3,600.00
Utility Billing - Service Orders                                                1     $ 2,300.00          $ 0.00       $ 2,300.00
Utility Billing - Services                                                      1     $ 3,600.00          $ 0.00       $ 3,600.00
Utility Billing - Standard                                                      1     $ 4,100.00          $ 0.00       $ 4,100.00

2021-279496-K8L9P8                                              CONFIDENTIAL                                               Page 5
                                                                     TOTAL                               $ 53,375.00


Optional Tyler SaaS and Related Services


Description                                                                           Qty   Imp. Hours   Annual Fee
 Financial Management
 Bid Management                                                                        1           24     $ 1,938.00
 Quatred Asset Scanning Interface                                                      1           16     $ 1,328.00
 Human Resources Management
 Advanced Scheduling - Up to 250 Employees                                             1           64    $ 12,832.00
 Advanced Scheduling Mobile Access                                                     1            0     $ 2,352.00
 Employee Expense Reimbursement                                                        1           32     $ 2,179.00
 Risk Management                                                                       1           16     $ 1,445.00
 Civic Services
 Enterprise Permitting & Licensing Advanced Automation Bundle w Executive
 Insights                                                                              1            8     $ 4,439.00
 Content Management
 Content Manager Enterprise Access                                                     1            8     $ 2,428.00
 Content Manager Enterprise Auto Indexing and Redaction                                1           16     $ 2,428.00
 Additional
 Notify includes 30,000 Msgs and 1,000 Mins per year                                   1           16     $ 6,000.00
 Recurring Services
 Managed Detection & Response                                                          1            0    $ 15,000.00
 Payroll Tax Table Updates                                                             1            0     $ 1,000.00


                                                                    TOTAL:                        200    $ 53,369.00


Optional Professional Services


2021-279496-K8L9P8                                                     CONFIDENTIAL                           Page 6
Description                                                                          Quantity         Unit Price      Extended Price             Maintenance
Change Management Guidance                                                                 1        $ 10,000.00          $ 10,000.00                  $ 0.00
Enterprise Permitting & Licensing Custom Report Development (3 pack)                       1         $ 9,000.00           $ 9,000.00                  $ 0.00
Install Fee - Managed Detection & Response                                                 1         $ 1,000.00           $ 1,000.00                  $ 0.00
Conversion – See Detailed Breakdown Below                                                                                 $ 26,040.00                  $ 0.00
Onsite Implementation                                                                      56           $ 195.00          $ 10,920.00                  $ 0.00
Remote Implementation                                                                     144           $ 163.00          $ 23,472.00                  $ 0.00
                                                                       TOTAL                                              $ 80,432.00                  $ 0.00


 Optional 3rd Party Hardware, Software and Services
                                                                                        Unit                                    Unit
                                                                                    Discount                         Unit Maint/SaaS                    Total
 Description                                               Qty       Unit Price                  Total Price   Maint/SaaS   Discount              Maint/SaaS
 Pattern Stream Automated Document System                    1     $ 17,500.00        $ 0.00    $ 17,500.00     $ 3,500.00    $ 0.00              $ 3,500.00
 Pattern Stream Automated Document System -
 Implementation                                             40           $ 163.00     $ 0.00     $ 6,520.00            $ 0.00       $ 0.00             $ 0.00
 Quatred Barcode Printer Supplies - Labels                   1           $ 389.00     $ 0.00       $ 389.00            $ 0.00       $ 0.00             $ 0.00
 Touchscreen 10: Biometric Reader                            1         $ 2,710.00     $ 0.00     $ 2,710.00         $ 271.00        $ 0.00          $ 271.00
 Touchscreen 10: Proximity Reader (HID)                      1         $ 2,510.00     $ 0.00     $ 2,510.00         $ 251.00        $ 0.00          $ 251.00



                                               TOTAL                                            $ 29,629.00                                       $ 4,022.00

Optional Conversion Details (Prices Reflected Above)
Description                                                                                       Quantity         Unit Price     Discount              Total
Capital Assets
CA Std Master                                                                                             1    $ 2,000.00               $ 0.00     $ 2,000.00
Contract Management
Contracts                                                                                                 1    $ 3,000.00               $ 0.00     $ 3,000.00
Enterprise Asset Management
2021-279496-K8L9P8                                                       CONFIDENTIAL                                                                  Page 7
AM - Work Order Asset                                                          1     $ 4,000.00          $ 0.00       $ 4,000.00
Inventory
IN - Commodity Codes                                                           1       $ 840.00          $ 0.00         $ 840.00
Payroll
HR Human Resources - Certifications                                            1     $ 1,400.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,400.00
HR Human Resources - Education                                                 1     $ 1,400.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,400.00
HR Human Resources - Recruiting                                                1     $ 1,400.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,400.00
PR Payroll - Accumulators up to 5 years                                        1     $ 1,400.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,400.00
Project & Grant Accounting
PG - Actuals up to 3 years                                                     1     $ 1,000.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,000.00
PG - Budgets up to 3 years                                                     1     $ 1,000.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,000.00
PGA Standard                                                                   1     $ 2,000.00          $ 0.00       $ 2,000.00
Purchasing
Purchase Orders - Standard                                                     1     $ 1,800.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,800.00
Utility Billing
Utility Billing - Backflow                                                     1     $ 1,200.00          $ 0.00       $ 1,200.00
Utility Billing - Budget Billing                                               1     $ 3,600.00          $ 0.00       $ 3,600.00


                                                             TOTAL                                                   $ 26,040.00


 Tyler Annual Discount Detail (Excludes Optional Products)
                                                                                                  Annual Fee
 Description                                                                 Annual Fee             Discount      Annual Fee Net
 Financial Management
 Accounting                                                                  $ 17,519.00          $ 1,752.00         $ 15,767.00
 Accounts Payable                                                             $ 5,062.00            $ 506.00          $ 4,556.00
 Budgeting                                                                    $ 5,062.00            $ 506.00          $ 4,556.00
 Capital Assets                                                               $ 4,266.00            $ 427.00          $ 3,839.00
 Cash Management                                                              $ 2,902.00            $ 290.00          $ 2,612.00
 Contract Management                                                          $ 1,914.00            $ 191.00          $ 1,723.00
 eProcurement                                                                 $ 2,902.00            $ 290.00          $ 2,612.00
2021-279496-K8L9P8                                            CONFIDENTIAL                                                Page 8
 Inventory                                                                  $ 3,965.00    $ 397.00     $ 3,568.00
 Project & Grant Accounting                                                 $ 3,407.00    $ 341.00     $ 3,066.00
 Purchasing                                                                 $ 7,338.00    $ 734.00     $ 6,604.00
 Quatred Inventory Scanning Interface                                       $ 1,328.00    $ 133.00     $ 1,195.00
 Human Resources Management
 Human Resources & Talent Management                                        $ 5,588.00     $ 559.00    $ 5,029.00
 Payroll w/ESS                                                              $ 6,872.00     $ 687.00    $ 6,185.00
 Recruiting                                                                 $ 1,258.00     $ 126.00    $ 1,132.00
 Time & Attendance - Up to 250 Employees                                   $ 10,596.00   $ 1,060.00    $ 9,536.00
 Time & Attendance Mobile Access                                            $ 2,553.00     $ 255.00    $ 2,298.00
 Revenue Management
 Accounts Receivable                                                        $ 3,724.00     $ 372.00    $ 3,352.00
 Cashiering                                                                 $ 6,380.00     $ 638.00    $ 5,742.00
 General Billing                                                            $ 2,485.00     $ 249.00    $ 2,236.00
 Utility Billing CIS including Graphing Agent                              $ 11,930.00   $ 1,193.00   $ 10,737.00
 Utility Billing Meter Interface                                            $ 2,663.00     $ 266.00    $ 2,397.00
 Civic Services
 Business Management Suite                                                  $ 2,112.00     $ 212.00    $ 1,900.00
 Civic Access - Business Management                                         $ 6,263.00   $ 6,263.00         $ 0.00
 Civic Access - Community Development                                       $ 6,263.00     $ 626.00    $ 5,637.00
 Community Development Suite                                                $ 9,504.00     $ 954.00    $ 8,550.00
 Decision Engine                                                            $ 7,000.00     $ 700.00    $ 6,300.00
 e-Reviews                                                                  $ 9,540.00     $ 954.00    $ 8,586.00
 Enterprise Permitting & Licensing Core Foundation Bundle                   $ 2,012.00     $ 201.00    $ 1,811.00
 Enterprise Permitting & Licensing View Only License                        $ 1,760.00     $ 175.00    $ 1,585.00
 Enterprise Service Requests                                                $ 2,935.00     $ 294.00    $ 2,641.00
 GIS Site License                                                          $ 13,702.00   $ 1,370.00   $ 12,332.00
 Parks and Recreation                                                       $ 5,835.00     $ 584.00    $ 5,251.00
 Report Toolkit                                                             $ 1,926.00     $ 193.00    $ 1,733.00
 Resident Access                                                            $ 3,724.00     $ 372.00    $ 3,352.00
 Workforce Mobile                                                           $ 1,408.00     $ 140.00    $ 1,268.00
 Enterprise Asset Management
 Asset Maintenance                                                         $ 10,992.00   $ 1,104.00    $ 9,888.00
 Asset Performance                                                          $ 3,624.00     $ 360.00    $ 3,264.00
 Internal Requests License                                                  $ 1,109.00     $ 111.00      $ 998.00
 Content Management
 Content Manager Enterprise                                                $ 14,847.00   $ 1,485.00   $ 13,362.00
2021-279496-K8L9P8                                          CONFIDENTIAL                                    Page 9
 Data Insights
 Capital Projects Explorer                                                 $ 6,000.00      $ 600.00     $ 5,400.00
 Enterprise Analytics and Reporting w Executive Insights                  $ 16,186.00    $ 1,619.00    $ 14,567.00
 Enterprise Permitting & Licensing Advanced Automation
 Bundle                                                                    $ 1,460.00     $ 146.00      $ 1,314.00
 Additional
 Enterprise Forms Processing (including Common Form Set)                   $ 4,298.00     $ 430.00      $ 3,868.00
 Subscription Fees
 ACFR Statement Builder                                                    $ 6,070.00     $ 607.00      $ 5,463.00

                                                                                   $
                                               TOTAL                      248,284.00    $ 30,472.00   $ 217,812.00




2021-279496-K8L9P8                                         CONFIDENTIAL                                    Page 10
     Comments




     Tyler's quote contains estimates of the amount of services needed, based on our preliminary understanding of the scope, level of engagement, and
     timeline as defined in the Statement of Work (SOW) for your project. The actual amount of services required may vary, based on these factors.

     Tyler's pricing is based on the scope of proposed products and services contracted from Tyler. Should portions of the scope of products or services be
     altered by the Client, Tyler reserves the right to adjust prices for the remaining scope accordingly.

     Unless otherwise noted, prices submitted in the quote do not include travel expenses incurred in accordance with Tyler's then-current Business Travel
     Policy.

     Tyler's prices do not include applicable local, city or federal sales, use excise, personal property or other similar taxes or duties, which you are
     responsible for determining and remitting. Installations are completed remotely but can be done onsite upon request at an additional cost.

     In the event Client cancels services less than two (2) weeks in advance, Client is liable to Tyler for (i) all non-refundable expenses incurred by Tyler on
     Client's behalf; and (ii) daily fees associated with the cancelled services if Tyler is unable to re-assign its personnel.

     The Implementation Hours included in this quote assume a work split effort of 70% Client and 30% Tyler.

     Implementation Hours are scheduled and delivered in four (4) or eight (8) hour increments.

     Tyler provides onsite training for a maximum of 12 people per class. In the event that more than 12 users wish to participate in a training class or more
     than one occurrence of a class is needed, Tyler will either provide additional days at then-current rates for training or Tyler will utilize a Train-the-
     Trainer approach whereby the client designated attendees of the initial training can thereafter train the remaining users.

     As a new Tyler client, you are entitled to a 14-day or a 30-day trial of the Managed Detection and Response cybersecurity service. Please reference
     https://www.tylertech.com/services/tyler-detect for more information on the service and contact CybersecuritySales@tylertech.com to initiate the
     trial.

     Tyler currently supports the following identity providers (IdP's) for use with Tyler back-office solutions: Microsoft Active Directory through Azure AD,
     ADFS or Okta AD agent, Google Cloud Identity, Okta, and Identity Automation RapidIdentity. Any requirement by you to use an IdP not supported by
     Tyler will require additional costs, available upon request.



2021-279496-K8L9P8                                                           CONFIDENTIAL                                                                   Page 11
     EnerGov Business Management: Tyler leads and owns the "Assess and Define" and "Configuration" of 1 unique business transactions, 1 template
     business transactions, 1 geo-rules and 1 automation events. Configuration elements beyond this will be owned by the client.

     EnerGov Community Development: Tyler leads and owns the "Assess and Define" and "Configuration" 2 unique business transactions, 2 template
     business transactions, 1 geo-rules and 1 automation events. Configuration elements beyond this will be owned by the client.

     Tyler Content Manager Enterprise includes up to 1TB of storage. Should additional storage be needed it may be purchased as needed at an annual fee
     of $5,000 per TB.

     The SaaS fees for products that are not named users are based on 32 concurrent users. Should the number of concurrent users be exceeded, Tyler
     reserves the right to re-negotiate the SaaS fees based upon any resulting changes in the pricing categories.

     Your rights, and the rights of any of your end users, to use Tyler’s Data & Insights SaaS Services, or certain Tyler solutions which include Tyler’s Data &
     Insights data platform, are subject to the Terms of Services, available at https://www.tylertech.com/terms/socrata-saas-services-terms-of-service. By
     signing this sales quotation, or accessing, installing, or using any of the Tyler solutions listed at the linked terms, you certify that you have reviewed,
     understand, and agree to said terms.

     Financial library includes: standard A/P check, standard EFT/ACH, standard Purchase order, standard Contract, 1099M, 1099INT, 1099S, 1099NEC and
     1099G.

     General Billing library includes: standard invoice, standard statement, standard general billing receipt and standard miscellaneous receipt.

     Personnel Actions Forms Library includes: standard Personnel Action form - New and standard Personnel Action Form - Change.

     Payroll library includes: standard PR check, standard direct deposit, standard vendor from payroll check, standard vendor from payroll direct deposit,
     W2, W2c, ACA 1095B, ACA 1095C and 1099 R.

     Standard Project Management responsibilities include project plan creation, initial stakeholder presentation, bi-weekly status calls, updating of
     project plan task statuses, and go-live planning activities.

     Additional required hardware will be purchased by the client directly through Quatred.

     Quatred Barcode Printer Supplies Labels: 1 case (2530 labels/roll and 8 rolls/case) 2" x 1" synthetic labels.



2021-279496-K8L9P8                                                           CONFIDENTIAL                                                                 Page 12
     Your acquisition of clocks and/or clock maintenance is subject to the following terms: https://www.tylertech.com/terms/executime-clock-terms.

     For the avoidance of doubt, Managed Detection & Response is a subscription service, not SaaS. Notwithstanding the foregoing language, payment of
     annual subscription fees for Managed Detection & Response commence on the availability of the service. Managed Detection & Response services will
     renew automatically for additional one (1) year terms, and subsequent subscription fees are due annually in advance on the anniversary of the
     availability date at our then-current rates. Pricing is based on client's current network size as defined by their entity size. Any material increases of
     network size may result in additional fees being assessed for the Managed Detection & Response service upon renewal. The quoted Managed
     Detection & Response amount does not include monitoring of student devices nor analysis of student network traffic. Tyler can quote an additional
     fee for these services.

     Your use of Tyler Payments and any related items included on this order is subject to the terms found at: https://www.tylertech.com/terms/payment-
     card-processing-agreement. By signing this order or the agreement in which it is included, you agree you have read, understand, and agree to such
     terms. Please see attached Tyler Payments fee schedule.

     Tyler Notify SaaS services will renew automatically for additional one (1) year terms at our then-current fee unless terminated in writing by either part
     at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of the then-current term. Unused minutes and texts expire at the end of each annual term.

     Tyler's form library prices are based on the actual form quantities listed, and assume the forms will be provided according to the standard Enterprise
     ERP form template. Any forms in addition to the quoted amounts and types, including custom forms or forms that otherwise require custom
     programming, are subject to an additional fee. Please also note that use of the Tyler Forms functionality requires the use of approved printers as well.
     You may contact Tyler's support team for the most current list of approved printers. Any forms included in this quote are based on the standard form
     templates provided. Custom forms, additional forms and any custom programming are subject to additional fees not included in this quote. The
     additional fees would be quoted at the time of request, generally during the implementation of the forms. Please note that the form solution provided
     requires the use of approved printers. You may contact Tyler's support team for the most current list of approved printers.

     Utility Billing CIS includes the Graphing Agent. Utility billing library includes: standard Utility bill, standard UB receipt, standard UB delinquent notice,
     standard door hanger and standard final utility bill.

     Quatred Barcode Printer Kit - GK420T Thermal Transfer Printer with 1 roll 2" x 1" (2530 labels/roll) synthetic labels, 1 roll resin ribbon, label printing
     software. Includes: 3 years comprehensive extended maintenance.

     Quatred QUICK Inventory Starter Kit: QUICK Inventory Software, NX6 Rugged Mobile Scanning Device with 2D Imager, WLAN, Bluetooth, GPS, Camera,
     Android 8.1 OS, Power supply, with 3 Year All-Inclusive depot repair/replace coverage. Software support and upgrades renewal for QUICK Inventory -
     after the first year, billed by Quatred.

2021-279496-K8L9P8                                                            CONFIDENTIAL                                                                   Page 13
     Quatred Remote Professional Services: 2 days onsite installation, configuration and training. Includes travel and living. Fees for Quatred services are
     payable upon completion of services.

     Business Management Forms Library Includes: 1 Licensing - Business License, 1 Licensing - Business License Renewal, 1 Licensing - Business License
     Delinquent, 1 Licensing - Profession License, 1 Licensing - Profession License Renewal, 1 Licensing Profession License Delinquent.

     Community Development Forms Library Includes: standard Permits - Building, standard Permits - Trade, standard Planning - Certificate, standard
     Permits - Occupancy/Completion, standard Code - Violation Notice.




2021-279496-K8L9P8                                                          CONFIDENTIAL                                                                Page 14
                                                              Payer Electronic Payment Costs
                                                         If passing transaction costs to the payer
                                                              Client Electronic Payment Costs
                                                             If absorbing the transaction costs
Client Card Cost – Interchange Plus – per card transaction with Visa, MasterCard, Discover,                    0.50% + $0.50
and American Express for all transactions on top of industry-driven rates for bank fees, card
brand fees, interchange fees, dues, assessments, and other processing fees.

Applied to: Enterprise ERP- online and over the counter
    • Utilities
    • General Billing
-Enterprise Permitting and Licensing- online and over the counter
    • Building
    • Business License
-Enterprise Bill Presentment Portal and over the counter
    • Animal License
    • Burial Fees


Client eCheck Cost – per electronic check transaction                                                              $1.95
                                                                  Miscellaneous Costs
Credit Card Chargebacks – if a card payer disputes a transaction at the card issuing bank                         $15.00
(e.g. stolen card)
eCheck Rejects – when an eCheck transaction comes back as declined (e.g. bounced check)                           $5.00
Card Terminal Rental – Annual recurring fee per device. Covers cost of PCI compliance,               Lane 3000: $396 (annual recurring)
service, maintenance, real-time integration and support                                              Lane 5000: $456 (annual recurring)
Card Terminal Purchase – Maintenance fee is an annual fee per device. Covers cost of PCI              Lane 3000: $419 (one-time fee)
compliance, service, maintenance, real-time integration and support                                   Lane 5000: $529 (one-time fee)
                                                                                                      Plus $180 Device Annual Support
IVR - per transaction on top of Card fee passed to the payer or absorbed                                           $0.50
                                                                                                   Exhibit B




                                           Exhibit B
                                Invoicing and Payment Policy
We will provide you with the software and services set forth in the Investment Summary of the
Agreement. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined will have the meaning assigned to such terms in
the Agreement.

Invoicing: We will invoice you for the applicable software and services in the Investment Summary as
set forth below. Your rights to dispute any invoice are set forth in the Agreement.

   1. SaaS Fees. SaaS Fees are invoiced on an annual basis, beginning on the commencement of the
      initial term as set forth in Section F (1) of this Agreement. Your annual SaaS fees for the initial
      term are set forth in the Investment Summary. Upon expiration of the initial term, your annual
      SaaS fees will be at our then-current rates. The foregoing notwithstanding, annual SaaS fees for
      the Tyler Software shall be payable as follows for the initial five (5)-year term:

         Payment Date        Payment Amount
         5/1/22              $46,187.25
         8/1/22              $46,187.25
         11/1/22             $46,187.25
         2/1/23              $46,187.25
         5/1/23              $46,187.25
         8/1/23              $53,121.63
         11/1/23             $53,121.63
         2/1/24              $53,778.00
         5/1/24              $217,812.00
         5/1/25              $226,524.48
         5/1/26              $235, 585.46


   2. Other Tyler Software and Services.

       2.1 VPN Device: The fee for the VPN device will be invoiced upon installation of the VPN.

       2.2 Implementation and Other Professional Services (including training): Implementation and
           other professional services (including training) are billed and invoiced as delivered, at the
           rates set forth in the Investment Summary. The foregoing notwithstanding, Tyler will retain,
           by phase, fifteen percent (15%) of the fees payable under this section 3.2 (hereafter,
           “Retainage”), with the retainage to be invoiced upon the live date for the applicable
           implementation phase. Tyler reserves the right to invoice a Retainage in advance of a phase



                                                   1
                                                                                               Exhibit B


       live date if the Client suspends implementation services for a period longer than sixty (60)
       days and such suspension is not the result of Tyler’s failure to perform.

   2.3 Consulting Services: If you have purchased any Business Process Consulting services, if they
       have been quoted as fixed-fee services, they will be invoiced 50% upon your acceptance of
       the Best Practice Recommendations, by module, and 50% upon your acceptance of custom
       desktop procedures, by module. If you have purchased any Business Process Consulting
       services and they are quoted as an estimate, then we will bill you the actual services
       delivered on a time and materials basis.

   2.4 Conversions: Fixed-fee conversions are invoiced 50% upon initial delivery of the converted
       Data, by conversion option, and 50% upon Client acceptance to load the converted Data into
       Live/Production environment, by conversion option. Where conversions are quoted as
       estimated, we will bill you the actual services delivered on a time and materials basis.

   2.5 Requested Modifications to the Tyler Software: Requested modifications to the Tyler
       Software are invoiced 50% upon delivery of specifications and 50% upon delivery of the
       applicable modification. You must report any failure of the modification to conform to the
       specifications within thirty (30) days of delivery; otherwise, the modification will be deemed
       to be in compliance with the specifications after the 30-day window has passed. You may
       still report Defects to us as set forth in this Agreement.

   2.6 Other Fixed Price Services: Other fixed price services are invoiced as delivered, at the rates
       set forth in the Investment Summary. For the avoidance of doubt, where “Project Planning
       Services” are provided, payment will be due upon delivery of the Implementation Planning
       document.

   2.7 Annual Services: Unless otherwise indicated in this Exhibit B, fees for annual services are due
       annually, in advance, commencing on the availability of the service. Your annual fees for the
       initial term are set forth in the Investment Summary. Upon expiration of the initial term,
       your annual fees will be at our then-current rates.

3. Third Party Products.

   3.1 Third Party Software License Fees: License fees for Third Party Software, if any, are invoiced
       when we make it available to you for downloading.

   3.2 Third Party Software Maintenance: The first year maintenance for the Third Party Software
       is invoiced when we make it available to you for downloading.

   3.3 Third Party Hardware: Third Party Hardware costs, if any, are invoiced upon delivery.
       Subsequent annual hardware support fees, at then current rates, are due upon each
       anniversary of the hardware support services.

   3.4 Third Party Services: Fees for Third Party Services, if any, are invoiced as delivered, along
       with applicable expenses, at the rates set forth in the Investment Summary.

   3.5 Third Party SaaS: Third Party SaaS Services fees, if any, are invoiced annually, in advance,


                                                2
                                                                                                   Exhibit B


            commencing with availability of the respective Third Party SaaS Services. Pricing for the first
            year of Third Party SaaS Services is indicated in the Investment Summary. Pricing for
            subsequent years will be at the respective third party’s then-current rates.

    4. Transaction Fees. Unless paid directly by an end user at the time of transaction, per transaction
       (call, message, etc.) fees are invoiced on a quarterly basis. Fees are indicated in Schedule A and
       may be increased by Tyler upon notice of no less than thirty (30) days.

    5. Expenses. The service rates in the Investment Summary do not include travel expenses.
       Expenses for Tyler delivered services will be billed as incurred and only in accordance with our
       then-current Business Travel Policy, plus a 10% travel agency processing fee. Our current
       Business Travel Policy is attached to this Exhibit B as Schedule 1. Copies of receipts will be
       provided upon request; we reserve the right to charge you an administrative fee depending on
       the extent of your requests. Receipts for miscellaneous items less than twenty-five dollars and
       mileage logs are not available.

Payment. Payment for undisputed invoices is due within forty-five (45) days of the invoice date. We
prefer to receive payments electronically. Our electronic payment information is available by contacting
AR@tylertech.com.




                                                    3
                                                                                                  Exhibit B
                                                                                                Schedule 1




                                            Exhibit B
                                           Schedule 1
                                      Business Travel Policy


1. Air Travel

   A. Reservations & Tickets

   The Travel Management Company (TMC) used by Tyler will provide an employee with a direct flight
   within two hours before or after the requested departure time, assuming that flight does not add
   more than three hours to the employee’s total trip duration and the fare is within $100 (each way)
   of the lowest logical fare. If a net savings of $200 or more (each way) is possible through a
   connecting flight that is within two hours before or after the requested departure time and that
   does not add more than three hours to the employee’s total trip duration, the connecting flight
   should be accepted.

   Employees are encouraged to make advanced reservations to take full advantage of discount
   opportunities. Employees should use all reasonable efforts to make travel arrangements at least
   two (2) weeks in advance of commitments. A seven (7) day advance booking requirement is
   mandatory. When booking less than seven (7) days in advance, management approval will be
   required.

   Except in the case of international travel where a segment of continuous air travel is six (6) or more
   consecutive hours in length, only economy or coach class seating is reimbursable. Employees shall
   not be reimbursed for “Basic Economy Fares” because these fares are non-refundable and have
   many restrictions that outweigh the cost-savings.

   B. Baggage Fees

   Reimbursement of personal baggage charges are based on trip duration as follows:

       •   Up to five (5) days = one (1) checked bag
       •   Six (6) or more days = two (2) checked bags

   Baggage fees for sports equipment are not reimbursable.




                                                    1
                                                                                                  Exhibit B
                                                                                                Schedule 1

2. Ground Transportation

   A. Private Automobile

   Mileage Allowance – Business use of an employee’s private automobile will be reimbursed at the
   current IRS allowable rate, plus out of pocket costs for tolls and parking. Mileage will be calculated
   by using the employee's office as the starting and ending point, in compliance with IRS regulations.
   Employees who have been designated a home office should calculate miles from their home.

   B. Rental Car

   Employees are authorized to rent cars only in conjunction with air travel when cost, convenience,
   and the specific situation reasonably require their use. When renting a car for Tyler business,
   employees should select a “mid-size” or “intermediate” car. “Full” size cars may be rented when
   three or more employees are traveling together. Tyler carries leased vehicle coverage for business
   car rentals; except for employees traveling to Alaska and internationally (excluding Canada),
   additional insurance on the rental agreement should be declined.

   C. Public Transportation

   Taxi or airport limousine services may be considered when traveling in and around cities or to and
   from airports when less expensive means of transportation are unavailable or impractical. The
   actual fare plus a reasonable tip (15-18%) are reimbursable. In the case of a free hotel shuttle to the
   airport, tips are included in the per diem rates and will not be reimbursed separately.

   D. Parking & Tolls

   When parking at the airport, employees must use longer term parking areas that are measured in
   days as opposed to hours. Park and fly options located near some airports may also be used. For
   extended trips that would result in excessive parking charges, public transportation to/from the
   airport should be considered. Tolls will be reimbursed when receipts are presented.

3. Lodging

   Tyler’s TMC will select hotel chains that are well established, reasonable in price, and conveniently
   located in relation to the traveler's work assignment. Typical hotel chains include Courtyard,
   Fairfield Inn, Hampton Inn, and Holiday Inn Express. If the employee has a discount rate with a local
   hotel, the hotel reservation should note that discount and the employee should confirm the lower
   rate with the hotel upon arrival. Employee memberships in travel clubs such as AAA should be
   noted in their travel profiles so that the employee can take advantage of any lower club rates.

   “No shows” or cancellation fees are not reimbursable if the employee does not comply with the
   hotel’s cancellation policy.

   Tips for maids and other hotel staff are included in the per diem rate and are not reimbursed
   separately.




                                                    2
                                                                                                   Exhibit B
                                                                                                 Schedule 1

   Employees are not authorized to reserve non-traditional short-term lodging, such as Airbnb, VRBO,
   and HomeAway. Employees who elect to make such reservations shall not be reimbursed.

4. Meals and Incidental Expenses

   Employee meals and incidental expenses while on travel status within the continental U.S. are in
   accordance with the federal per diem rates published by the General Services Administration.
   Incidental expenses include tips to maids, hotel staff, and shuttle drivers and other minor travel
   expenses. Per diem rates are available at www.gsa.gov/perdiem.

   Per diem for Alaska, Hawaii, U.S. protectorates and international destinations are provided
   separately by the Department of State and will be determined as required.

   A. Overnight Travel

   For each full day of travel, all three meals are reimbursable. Per diems on the first and last day of a
   trip are governed as set forth below.

       Departure Day

       Depart before 12:00 noon                                  Lunch and dinner
       Depart after 12:00 noon                                   Dinner

       Return Day

       Return before 12:00 noon                                  Breakfast
       Return between 12:00 noon & 7:00 p.m.                     Breakfast and lunch
       Return after 7:00 p.m.*                                   Breakfast, lunch and dinner

   *7:00 p.m. is defined as direct travel time and does not include time taken to stop for dinner.

   The reimbursement rates for individual meals are calculated as a percentage of the full day per diem
   as follows:

                       Breakfast            15%
                       Lunch                25%
                       Dinner               60%

   B. Same Day Travel

   Employees traveling at least 100 miles to a site and returning in the same day are eligible to claim
   lunch on an expense report. Employees on same day travel status are eligible to claim dinner in the
   event they return home after 7:00 p.m.*

   *7:00 p.m. is defined as direct travel time and does not include time taken to stop for dinner.



                                                    3
                                                                                                   Exhibit B
                                                                                                 Schedule 1


5. Internet Access – Hotels and Airports

   Employees who travel may need to access their e-mail at night. Many hotels provide free high
   speed internet access and Tyler employees are encouraged to use such hotels whenever possible. If
   an employee’s hotel charges for internet access it is reimbursable up to $10.00 per day. Charges for
   internet access at airports are not reimbursable.

6. International Travel

   All international flights with the exception of flights between the U.S. and Canada should be
   reserved through TMC using the “lowest practical coach fare” with the exception of flights that are
   six (6) or more consecutive hours in length. In such event, the next available seating class above
   coach shall be reimbursed.

   When required to travel internationally for business, employees shall be reimbursed for photo fees,
   application fees, and execution fees when obtaining a new passport book, but fees related to
   passport renewals are not reimbursable. Visa application and legal fees, entry taxes and departure
   taxes are reimbursable.

   The cost of vaccinations that are either required for travel to specific countries or suggested by the
   U.S. Department of Health & Human Services for travel to specific countries, is reimbursable.

   Section 4, Meals & Incidental Expenses, and Section 2.b., Rental Car, shall apply to this section.




                                                    4
                                                                                                   Exhibit C




                                            Exhibit C
                                    Service Level Agreement

I.      Agreement Overview
This SLA operates in conjunction with, and does not supersede or replace any part of, the Agreement. It
outlines the information technology service levels that we will provide to you to ensure the availability of
the application services that you have requested us to provide. This SLA does not apply to any Third Party
SaaS Services. All other support services are documented in the Support Call Process.

II.   Definitions. Except as defined below, all defined terms have the meaning set forth in the
Agreement.

Actual Attainment: The percentage of time the Tyler Software is available during a calendar quarter,
calculated as follows: (Service Availability – Downtime) ÷ Service Availability.
Client Error Incident: Any service unavailability resulting from your applications, content or equipment, or
the acts or omissions of any of your service users or third-party providers over whom we exercise no
control.
Downtime: Those minutes during Service Availability, as defined below, when all users cannot launch,
login, search or save primary data in the Tyler Software. Downtime does not include those instances in
which only a Defect is present.
Emergency Maintenance: (1) maintenance that is required to patch a critical security vulnerability; (2)
maintenance that is required to prevent an imminent outage of Service Availability; or (3) maintenance
that is mutually agreed upon in writing by Tyler and the Client.
Planned Downtime: Downtime that occurs during a Standard or Emergency Maintenance window.
Service Availability: The total number of minutes in a calendar quarter that the Tyler Software is capable
of receiving, processing, and responding to requests, excluding Planned Downtime, Client Error Incidents,
denial of service attacks and Force Majeure.
Standard Maintenance: Routine maintenance to the Tyler Software and infrastructure.               Standard
Maintenance is limited to five (5) hours per week.

III.    Service Availability

        a.      Your Responsibilities
Whenever you experience Downtime, you must make a support call according to the procedures outlined
in the Support Call Process. You will receive a support case number.
        b.      Our Responsibilities
When our support team receives a call from you that Downtime has occurred or is occurring, we will work
with you to identify the cause of the Downtime (including whether it may be the result of Planned


                                                     1
                                                                                                    Exhibit C


Downtime, a Client Error Incident, Denial of Service attack or Force Majeure). We will also work with you
to resume normal operations.
        c.      Client Relief
Our targeted Attainment Goal is 100%. You may be entitled to credits as indicated in the Client Relief
Schedule found below. Your relief credit is calculated as a percentage of the SaaS fees paid for the
calendar quarter.
In order to receive relief credits, you must submit a request through one of the channels listed in our
Support Call Process within fifteen days (15) of the end of the applicable quarter. We will respond to your
relief request within thirty (30) day(s) of receipt.
The total credits confirmed by us will be applied to the SaaS Fee for the next billing cycle. Issuing of such
credit does not relieve us of our obligations under the Agreement to correct the problem which created
the service interruption.


                                          Client Relief Schedule
                          Actual Attainment                      Client Relief
                           99.99% - 99.50%               Remedial action will be taken
                           99.49% - 98.50%                            2%
                           98.49% - 97.50%                            4%
                           97.49% - 96.50%                            6%
                           96.49% - 95.50%                            8%
                            Below 95.50%                             10%


* Notwithstanding language in the Agreement to the contrary, Recovery Point Objective is one (1) hour.


IV.     Maintenance Notifications
We perform Standard Maintenance during limited windows that are historically known to be reliably
low-traffic times. If and when maintenance is predicted to occur during periods of higher traffic, we will
provide advance notice of those windows and will coordinate to the greatest extent possible with you.

Not all maintenance activities will cause application unavailability. However, if Tyler anticipates that
activities during a Standard or Emergency Maintenance window may make the Tyler Software unavailable,
we will provide advance notice, as reasonably practicable that the Tyler Software will be unavailable
during the maintenance window.




                                                     2
                                                                                                   Exhibit C
                                                                                                 Schedule 1




                                               Exhibit C
                                              Schedule 1
                                          Support Call Process
Support Channels

Tyler Technologies, Inc. provides the following channels of software support for authorized users*:
    (1) On-line submission (portal) – for less urgent and functionality-based questions, users may create
        support incidents through the Tyler Customer Portal available at the Tyler Technologies website.
        A built-in Answer Panel provides users with resolutions to most “how-to” and configuration-
        based questions through a simplified search interface with machine learning, potentially
        eliminating the need to submit the support case.
    (2) Email – for less urgent situations, users may submit emails directly to the software support
        group.
    (3) Telephone – for urgent or complex questions, users receive toll-free, telephone software
        support.
        * Channel availability may be limited for certain applications.

Support Resources

A number of additional resources are available to provide a comprehensive and complete support
experience:
    (1) Tyler Website – www.tylertech.com – for accessing client tools, documentation, and other
        information including support contact information.
    (2) Tyler Search -a knowledge based search engine that lets you search multiple sources
        simultaneously to find the answers you need, 24x7.
    (3) Tyler Community –provides a venue for all Tyler clients with current maintenance agreements to
        collaborate with one another, share best practices and resources, and access documentation.
    (4) Tyler University – online training courses on Tyler products.

Support Availability

Tyler Technologies support is available during the local business hours of 8 AM to 5 PM (Monday –
Friday) across four US time zones (Pacific, Mountain, Central and Eastern). Tyler’s holiday schedule is
outlined below. There will be no support coverage on these days.

 New Year’s Day                 Labor Day
 Martin Luther King, Jr. Day    Thanksgiving Day
 Memorial Day                   Day after Thanksgiving
 Independence Day               Christmas Day

For support teams that provide after-hours service, we will provide you with procedures for contacting
support staff after normal business hours for reporting Priority Level 1 Defects only. Upon receipt of


                                                     1
                                                                                                          Exhibit C
                                                                                                        Schedule 1

such a Defect notification, we will use commercially reasonable efforts to meet the resolution targets
set forth below.

We will also make commercially reasonable efforts to be available for one pre-scheduled Saturday of
each month to assist your IT staff with applying patches and release upgrades, as well as consulting with
them on server maintenance and configuration of the Tyler Software environment.

Incident Handling

Incident Tracking

Every support incident is logged into Tyler’s Customer Relationship Management System and given a
unique case number. This system tracks the history of each incident. The case number is used to track
and reference open issues when clients contact support. Clients may track incidents, using the case
number, through Tyler’s Customer Portal or by calling software support directly.

Incident Priority

Each incident is assigned a priority level, which corresponds to the Client’s needs. Tyler and the Client
will reasonably set the priority of the incident per the chart below. This chart is not intended to address
every type of support incident, and certain “characteristics” may or may not apply depending on
whether the Tyler software has been deployed on customer infrastructure or the Tyler cloud. The goal is
to help guide the Client towards clearly understanding and communicating the importance of the issue
and to describe generally expected response and resolution targets in the production environment only.

References to a “confirmed support incident” mean that Tyler and the Client have successfully validated
the reported Defect/support incident.


  Priority
              Characteristics of Support Incident                         Resolution Targets*
   Level

             Support incident that causes (a)           Tyler shall provide an initial response to Priority Level
             complete application failure or            1 incidents within one (1) business hour of receipt of
             application unavailability; (b)            the incident. Once the incident has been confirmed,
             application failure or unavailability in   Tyler shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
     1
             one or more of the client’s remote         resolve such support incidents or provide a
  Critical
             location; or (c) systemic loss of          circumvention procedure within one (1) business
             multiple essential system functions.       day. For non-hosted customers, Tyler’s responsibility
                                                        for lost or corrupted data is limited to assisting the
                                                        Client in restoring its last available database.




                                                        2
                                                                                                          Exhibit C
                                                                                                        Schedule 1


  Priority
              Characteristics of Support Incident                         Resolution Targets*
   Level

             Support incident that causes (a)           Tyler shall provide an initial response to Priority Level
             repeated, consistent failure of            2 incidents within four (4) business hours of receipt of
             essential functionality affecting more     the incident. Once the incident has been confirmed,
             than one user or (b) loss or corruption    Tyler shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
    2        of data.                                   resolve such support incidents or provide a
   High                                                 circumvention procedure within ten (10) business
                                                        days. For non-hosted customers, Tyler’s
                                                        responsibility for loss or corrupted data is limited to
                                                        assisting the Client in restoring its last available
                                                        database.

             Priority Level 1 incident with an          Tyler shall provide an initial response to Priority Level
             existing circumvention procedure, or       3 incidents within one (1) business day of receipt of
             a Priority Level 2 incident that affects   the incident. Once the incident has been confirmed,
             only one user or for which there is an     Tyler shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
             existing circumvention procedure.          resolve such support incidents without the need for a
   3
                                                        circumvention procedure with the next published
 Medium
                                                        maintenance update or service pack, which shall
                                                        occur at least quarterly. For non-hosted customers,
                                                        Tyler’s responsibility for lost or corrupted data is
                                                        limited to assisting the Client in restoring its last
                                                        available database.

             Support incident that causes failure of    Tyler shall provide an initial response to Priority Level
             non-essential functionality or a           4 incidents within two (2) business days of receipt of
     4
             cosmetic or other issue that does not      the incident. Once the incident has been confirmed,
   Non-
             qualify as any other Priority Level.       Tyler shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
  critical
                                                        resolve such support incidents, as well as cosmetic
                                                        issues, with a future version release.
                                  *
                                   Response and Resolution Targets may differ by product or business need

Incident Escalation

If Tyler is unable to resolve any priority level 1 or 2 defect as listed above or the priority of an issue has
elevated since initiation, you may escalate the incident to the appropriate resource, as outlined by each
product support team. The corresponding resource will meet with you and any Tyler staff to establish a
mutually agreeable plan for addressing the defect.

Remote Support Tool

Some support calls may require further analysis of the Client’s database, processes or setup to diagnose
a problem or to assist with a question. Tyler will, at its discretion, use an industry-standard remote
support tool. Tyler’s support team must have the ability to quickly connect to the Client’s system and
view the site’s setup, diagnose problems, or assist with screen navigation. More information about the
remote support tool Tyler uses is available upon request.



                                                        3
                                             Exhibit D




               Exhibit D
           Third Party Terms
REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                    1
                                                                                                    Exhibit D
                                                                                                  Schedule 1




                                             Exhibit D
                                            Schedule 1
                                         Hyperlinked Terms


Pattern Stream Terms. Your use of Pattern Stream software and services is subject to the terms found
here: https://www.tylertech.com/terms/finite-matters-ltd-consolidated-terms. By signing a Tyler
Agreement or Order Form, or accessing, installing, or using Pattern Stream software or services, you
agree that you have read, understood, and agree to such terms.

Quatred Terms. Your use of Quatred solutions is subject to the End User License Agreement terms
found here: https://www.quatred.com/eula. By signing a Tyler Agreement or Order Form, or accessing,
installing, or using Quatred solutions provided to you by Tyler, you agree that you have read,
understood, and agree to such terms.

ThinPrint Terms. Your use of Tyler Forms software and forms is subject to the End User License
Agreement terms for ThinPrint Engine, ThinPrint License Server, and Connected Gateway found
here: https://www.thinprint.com/en/legal-notes/eula/. By signing a Tyler Agreement or Order Form, or
accessing, installing, or using Tyler Forms software or forms, you agree that you have read, understood,
and agree to such terms.

Twilio Acceptable Use Policy. Your use of the Tyler solutions listed below includes functionality provided
by a Third Party Developer, Twilio. Your rights, and the rights of any of your end users, to use said
functionality are subject to the terms of the Twilio Acceptable Use Policy, available
at http://www.twilio.com/legal/aup. By signing a Tyler Agreement or Order Form, or accessing,
installing, or using any such Tyler solution, you certify that you have reviewed, understand and agree to
said terms. Tyler hereby disclaims any and all liability related to your or your end user’s failure to abide
by the terms of the Twilio Acceptable Use Policy. Any liability for failure to abide by said terms shall rest
solely with the person or entity whose conduct violated said terms.

    •   Electronic Warrants
    •   Modria
    •   Odyssey Notifications Add On (text notifications)
    •   ReadySub
    •   Tyler Notify
    •   Tyler Jury Manager
    •   Tyler Supervision
    •   Virtual Court




                                                      1
                                               Exhibit D
                                             Schedule 2




              Exhibit D
             Schedule 2
           DocOrigin Terms


REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                    1
      Exhibit D
    Schedule 2




2
      Exhibit D
    Schedule 2




3
      Exhibit D
    Schedule 2




4
      Exhibit D
    Schedule 2




5
      Exhibit D
    Schedule 2




6
                    Exhibit E




     Exhibit E
Statement of Work




        1
City of Riverton, UT
SOW from Tyler Technologies, Inc.
03/07/2022


Presented to:
Kevin Hicks
12830 S Redwood Rd
Riverton, UT 84065


Contact:
Tammy Little
Email: Tammy.Little@TylerTech.com
One Tyler Drive, Yarmouth, ME 04096
        Table of Contents

        PART 1: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................................................................................................... 1

              Project Overview ................................................................................................................................ 1
                   Introduction ........................................................................................................................................ 1
                   Project Goals ....................................................................................................................................... 1
                   Methodology ....................................................................................................................................... 1


        PART 2: PROJECT FOUNDATION ............................................................................................................. 3

              Project Governance ............................................................................................................................ 3

              Project Scope Control ......................................................................................................................... 4
                   Managing Scope and Project Change ................................................................................................. 4
                   Change Control ................................................................................................................................... 4
                   Change Request Management ............................................................................................................ 4

              Acceptance Process ............................................................................................................................ 6

              Roles and Responsibilities .................................................................................................................. 6
                  Tyler Roles & Responsibilities ............................................................................................................. 6
                       Tyler Executive Manager ............................................................................................................. 7
                       Tyler Implementation Manager .................................................................................................. 7
                       Tyler Project Manager................................................................................................................. 7
                       Tyler Implementation Consultant ............................................................................................... 8
                       Tyler Sales ................................................................................................................................... 8
                       Tyler Technical Services .............................................................................................................. 8
                       Tyler SaaS Technicians ................................................................................................................ 9
                       Tyler Data Experts ....................................................................................................................... 9
                  City of Riverton Roles & Responsibilities ............................................................................................ 9
                       City of Riverton Executive Sponsor ............................................................................................. 9
                       City of Riverton Steering Committee ........................................................................................ 10
                       City of Riverton Project Manager.............................................................................................. 10
                       City of Riverton Functional Leads ............................................................................................. 11
                       City of Riverton Power Users .................................................................................................... 12
                       City of Riverton End Users ........................................................................................................ 12
                       City of Riverton Technical Lead ................................................................................................. 12
                       City of Riverton Change Management Lead ............................................................................. 13


        PART 3: PROJECT PLAN ........................................................................................................................... 14

              Project Stages................................................................................................................................... 14
                   Initiate and Plan ................................................................................................................................ 15
                         Initial Coordination ................................................................................................................... 15

City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                       Page | i
                          Project/Phase Planning ............................................................................................................. 16
                          Infrastructure Planning ............................................................................................................. 17
                          Stakeholder Meeting................................................................................................................. 18
                          GIS Preparation ......................................................................................................................... 19
                          Control Point 1: Initiate & Plan Stage Acceptance .................................................................... 20
                     Assess & Define ................................................................................................................................. 21
                          Solution Orientation.................................................................................................................. 21
                          Current & Future State Analysis................................................................................................ 21
                          Conversion Assessment ............................................................................................................ 23
                          Intentionally left blank. ............................................................................................................. 24
                          Intentionally left blank. ............................................................................................................. 24
                          Control Point 2: Assess & Define Stage Acceptance ................................................................. 24
                     Prepare Solution ............................................................................................................................... 24
                          Initial System Deployment ........................................................................................................ 24
                          Configuration ............................................................................................................................ 25
                          Process Refinement .................................................................................................................. 26
                          Conversion Delivery .................................................................................................................. 28
                          Intentionally left blank. ............................................................................................................. 30
                          Intentionally left blank. ............................................................................................................. 30
                          Control Point 3: Prepare Solution Stage Acceptance................................................................ 30
                     Production Readiness ....................................................................................................................... 30
                          Solution Validation .................................................................................................................... 30
                          Go-Live Readiness ..................................................................................................................... 31
                          End User Training ...................................................................................................................... 32
                          Control Point 4: Production Readiness Stage Acceptance ........................................................ 33
                     Production ......................................................................................................................................... 34
                          Go-Live ...................................................................................................................................... 34
                          Transition to Client Services...................................................................................................... 35
                          Post Go-Live Activities ............................................................................................................... 36
                          Control Point 5: Production Stage Acceptance ......................................................................... 37
                     Close .................................................................................................................................................. 37
                          Phase Closeout .......................................................................................................................... 38
                          Project Closeout ........................................................................................................................ 39
                          Control Point 6: Close Stage Acceptance .................................................................................. 40

              General Assumptions ....................................................................................................................... 40
                  Project ............................................................................................................................................... 40
                  Organizational Change Management ............................................................................................... 40
                  Resources and Scheduling................................................................................................................. 41
                  Data ................................................................................................................................................... 41
                  Facilities............................................................................................................................................. 42

              Glossary ........................................................................................................................................... 43


        PART 4: APPENDICES ............................................................................................................................... 46


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                           Page | ii
             Conversion ....................................................................................................................................... 46
                 Munis Conversion Summary ............................................................................................................. 46
                      Accounting COA ........................................................................................................................ 46
                      Accounting - Actuals ................................................................................................................. 46
                      Accounting - Budgets ................................................................................................................ 46
                      Accounts Payable Master.......................................................................................................... 46
                      Accounts Payable - Checks ........................................................................................................ 46
                      Accounts Payable - Invoices ...................................................................................................... 46
                      Inventory Master ...................................................................................................................... 46
                      Payroll ....................................................................................................................................... 47
                      Payroll - Deductions .................................................................................................................. 47
                      Payroll – Accrual Balances......................................................................................................... 47
                      Payroll – Check History ............................................................................................................. 47
                      Payroll – Earning/Deduction Hist. ............................................................................................. 47
                      Utility Billing .............................................................................................................................. 47
                      Utility Billing –Balance Forward AR ........................................................................................... 47
                      Utility Billing –Consumption History ......................................................................................... 47
                      Utility Billing –Flat Inventory/Containers .................................................................................. 48
                      Utility Billing –Services .............................................................................................................. 48
                      Utility Billing – Work Orders ..................................................................................................... 48

                Additional Appendices .................................................................................................................. 49
                  EnerGov Definitions .......................................................................................................................... 49
                       “Template Business Transactions” ............................................................................................ 49
                       “Unique Business Transactions” ............................................................................................... 49
                       “Geo-Rules” ............................................................................................................................... 49
                       “Automation Events” ................................................................................................................ 50
                       “EnerGov SDK/API (Toolkits)” ................................................................................................... 50
                  Intentionally left blank. ..................................................................................................................... 50

                Project Timeline ........................................................................................................................... 51
                  ERP Project Timeline ......................................................................................................................... 51
                  Socrata Project Plan .......................................................................................................................... 53
                  Tyler Content Manager Enterprise Timeline..................................................................................... 54




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                   Page | iii
        Part 1: Executive Summary
                 Project Overview
                 Introduction
        Tyler Technologies (“Tyler”) is the largest and most established provider of integrated software and
        technology services focused solely on the public sector. Tyler’s end-to-end solutions empower public sector
        entities including local, state, provincial and federal government, to operate more efficiently and connect
        more transparently with their constituents and with each other. By connecting data and processes across
        disparate systems, Tyler’s solutions transform how clients gain actionable insights that solve problems in their
        communities.

                 Project Goals
        This Statement of Work (“SOW”) documents the methodology, implementation stages, activities, and roles
        and responsibilities, and project scope listed in the Investment Summary of the Agreement between Tyler
        and the City of Riverton (collectively the “Project”).

        The overall goals of the project are to:

                Successfully implement the contracted scope on time and on budget
                Increase operational efficiencies and empower users to be more productive
                Improve accessibility and responsiveness to external and internal customer needs
                Overcome current challenges and meet future goals
                x
                x
                x
                x

                 Methodology
        This is accomplished by the City of Riverton and Tyler working as a partnership and Tyler utilizing its depth of
        implementation experience. While each Project is unique, all will follow Tyler’s six-stage methodology. Each
        of the six stages is comprised of multiple work packages, and each work package includes a narrative
        description, objectives, tasks, inputs, outputs/deliverables, assumptions, and a responsibility matrix.

        Tailored specifically for Tyler’s public sector clients, the project methodology contains Stage Acceptance
        Control Points throughout each Phase to ensure adherence to scope, budget, timeline controls, effective
        communications, and quality standards. Clearly defined, the project methodology repeats consistently across
        Phases, and is scaled to meet the City of Riverton’s complexity and organizational needs.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                              Page | 1
        The methodology adapts to both single-phase and multiple-phase projects.

        To achieve Project success, it is imperative that both the City of Riverton and Tyler commit to including the
        necessary leadership and governance. During each stage of the Project, it is expected that the City of Riverton
        and Tyler Project teams work collaboratively to complete tasks. An underlying principle of Tyler’s
        Implementation process is to employ an iterative model where the City of Riverton’s business processes are
        assessed, configured, validated, and refined cyclically in line with the project budget. This approach is used in
        multiple stages and work packages as illustrated in the graphic below.




        The delivery approach is systematic, which reduces variability and mitigates risks to ensure Project success. As
        illustrated, some stages, along with work packages and tasks, are intended to be overlapping by nature to
        complete the Project efficiently and effectively.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                             Page | 2
        Part 2: Project Foundation
                 Project Governance
        Project governance is the management framework within which Project decisions are made. The role of
        Project governance is to provide a decision-making approach that is logical, robust, and repeatable. This
        allows organizations to have a structured approach for conducting its daily business in addition to project
        related activities.

        This section outlines the resources required to meet the business needs, objectives, and priorities for the
        Project, communicate the goals to other Project participants, and provide support and guidance to
        accomplish these goals. Project governance defines the structure for escalation of issues and risks, Change
        Control review and authority, and Organizational Change Management activities. Throughout the Statement
        of Work Tyler has provided RACI Matrices for activities to be completed throughout the implementation
        which will further outline responsibilities of different roles in each stage. Further refinement of the
        governance structure, related processes, and specific roles and responsibilities occurs during the Initiate &
        Plan Stage.

        The chart below illustrates an overall team perspective where Tyler and the City of Riverton collaborate to
        resolve Project challenges according to defined escalation paths. If project managers do not possess authority
        to determine a solution, resolve an issue, or mitigate a risk, Tyler implementation management and the City
        of Riverton Steering Committee become the escalation points to triage responses prior to escalation to the
        City of Riverton and Tyler executive sponsors. As part of the escalation process, each Project governance tier
        presents recommendations and supporting information to facilitate knowledge transfer and issue resolution.
        The City of Riverton and Tyler executive sponsors serve as the final escalation point.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                            Page | 3
                 Project Scope Control
                 Managing Scope and Project Change
        Project Management governance principles contend that there are three connected constraints on a Project:
        budget, timeline, and scope. These constraints, known as the “triple constraints” or project management
        triangle, define budget in terms of financial cost, labor costs, and other resource costs. Scope is defined as the
        work performed to deliver a product, service or result with the specified features and functions, while time is
        simply defined as the schedule. The Triple Constraint theory states that if you change one side of the triangle,
        the other two sides must be correspondingly adjusted. For example, if the scope of the Project is increased,
        cost and time to complete will also need to increase. The Project and executive teams will need to remain
        cognizant of these constraints when making impactful decisions to the Project. A simple illustration of this
        triangle is included here, showing the connection of each item and their relational impact to the overall
        Scope.




        A pillar of any successful project is the ability to properly manage scope while allowing the appropriate level
        of flexibility to incorporate approved changes. Scope and changes within the project will be managed using
        the change control process outlined in the following section.

                 Change Control
        It may become necessary to change the scope of this Project due to unforeseeable circumstances (e.g., new
        constraints or opportunities are discovered). This Project is being undertaken with the understanding that
        Project scope, schedule, and/or cost may need to change to produce optimal results for stakeholders.
        Changes to contractual requirements will follow the change control process specified in the final contract,
        and as described below.

                 Change Request Management
        Should the need for a change to Project scope, schedule, and/or cost be identified during the Project, the
        change will be brought to the attention of the Steering Committee and an assessment of the change will
        occur. While such changes may result in additional costs and delays relative to the schedule, some changes
        may result in less cost to the City of Riverton; for example, the City of Riverton may decide it no longer needs
        a deliverable originally defined in the Project. The Change Request will include the following information:

City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                              Page | 4
                The nature of the change.
                A good faith estimate of the additional cost or associated savings to the City of Riverton, if any.
                The timetable for implementing the change.
                The effect on and/or risk to the schedule, resource needs or resource responsibilities.

        The City of Riverton will use its good faith efforts to either approve or disapprove any Change Request within
        ten (10) Business Days (or other period as mutually agreeable between Tyler and the City of Riverton). Any
        changes to the Project scope, budget, or timeline must be documented and approved in writing using a
        Change Request form. These changes constitute a formal amendment to the Statement of Work and will
        supersede any conflicting term in the Statement of Work.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                               Page | 5
                 Acceptance Process
        The implementation of a Project involves many decisions to be made throughout its lifecycle. Decisions will
        vary from higher level strategy decisions to smaller, detailed Project level decisions. It is critical to the success
        of the Project that each City of Riverton office or department designates specific individuals for making
        decisions on behalf of their offices or departments.

        Both Tyler and the City of Riverton will identify representative project managers. These individuals will
        represent the interests of all stakeholders and serve as the primary contacts between the two organizations.

        The coordination of gaining City of Riverton feedback and approval on Project deliverables will be critical to
        the success of the Project. The City of Riverton project manager will strive to gain deliverable and decision
        approvals from all authorized City of Riverton representatives. Given that the designated decision-maker for
        each department may not always be available, there must be a designated proxy for each decision point in
        the Project. Assignment of each proxy will be the responsibility of the leadership from each City of Riverton
        department. The proxies will be named individuals that have the authorization to make decisions on behalf of
        their department.

        The following process will be used for accepting Deliverables and Control Points:

                The City of Riverton shall have five (5) business days from the date of delivery, or as otherwise
                 mutually agreed upon by the parties in writing, to accept each Deliverable or Control Point. If the City
                 of Riverton does not provide acceptance or acknowledgement within five (5) business days, or the
                 otherwise agreed upon timeframe, not to be unreasonably withheld, Tyler deems the Deliverable or
                 Control Point as accepted.
                If the City of Riverton does not agree the Deliverable or Control Point meets requirements, the City of
                 Riverton shall notify Tyler project manager(s), in writing, with reasoning within five (5) business days,
                 or the otherwise agreed-upon timeframe, not to be unreasonably withheld, of receipt of the
                 Deliverable.
                Tyler shall address any deficiencies and redeliver the Deliverable or Control Point. The City of Riverton
                 shall then have two (2) business days from receipt of the redelivered Deliverable or Control Point to
                 accept or again submit written notification of reasons for rejecting the milestone. If the City of
                 Riverton does not provide acceptance within two (2) business days, or the otherwise agreed upon
                 timeframe, not to be unreasonably withheld, Tyler deems the Deliverable or Control Point as
                 accepted.

                 Roles and Responsibilities
        The following defines the roles and responsibilities of each Project resource for the City of Riverton and Tyler.
        Roles and responsibilities may not follow the organizational chart or position descriptions at the City of
        Riverton, but are roles defined within the Project. It is common for individual resources on both the Tyler and
        City of Riverton project teams to fill multiple roles. Similarly, it is common for some roles to be filled by
        multiple people.

                 Tyler Roles & Responsibilities
        Tyler assigns a project manager prior to the start of each Phase of the Project (some Projects may only be one
        Phase in duration). Additional Tyler resources are assigned as the schedule develops and as needs arise.


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                 Page | 6
                 Tyler Executive Manager
        Tyler executive management has indirect involvement with the Project and is part of the Tyler escalation
        process. This team member offers additional support to the Project team and collaborates with other Tyler
        department managers as needed to escalate and facilitate implementation Project tasks and decisions.

                Provides clear direction for Tyler staff on executing on the Project Deliverables to align with satisfying
                 the City of Riverton ’s overall organizational strategy.
                Authorizes required Project resources.
                Resolves all decisions and/or issues not resolved at the implementation management level as part of
                 the escalation process.
                Acts as the counterpart to the City of Riverton ’s executive sponsor.

                 Tyler Implementation Manager
                Tyler implementation management has indirect involvement with the Project and is part of the Tyler
                 escalation process. The Tyler project managers consult implementation management on issues and
                 outstanding decisions critical to the Project. Implementation management works toward a solution
                 with the Tyler Project Manager or with City of Riverton management as appropriate. Tyler executive
                 management is the escalation point for any issues not resolved at this level.
                Assigns Tyler Project personnel.
                Provides support for the Project team.
                Provides management support for the Project to ensure it is staffed appropriately and staff have
                 necessary resources.
                Monitors Project progress including progress towards agreed upon goals and objectives.

                 Tyler Project Manager
                The Tyler project manager(s) provides oversight of the Project, coordination of Tyler resources
                 between departments, management of the Project budget and schedule, effective risk, and issue
                 management, and is the primary point of contact for all Project related items. As requested by the
                 City of Riverton, the Tyler Project Manager provides regular updates to the City of Riverton Steering
                 Committee and other Tyler governance members. Tyler Project Manager’s role includes
                 responsibilities in the following areas:

                 Contract Management
                Validates contract compliance throughout the Project.
                Ensures Deliverables meet contract requirements.
                Acts as primary point of contact for all contract and invoicing questions.
                Prepares and presents contract milestone sign-offs for acceptance by the City of Riverton project
                 manager(s).
                Coordinates Change Requests, if needed, to ensure proper Scope and budgetary compliance.

                 Planning
                Delivers project planning documents.
                Defines Project tasks and resource requirements.
                Develops initial Project schedule and Project Management Plan.



City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                               Page | 7
                Collaborates with the City of Riverton project manager(s) to plan and schedule Project timelines to
                 achieve on-time implementation.

                 Implementation Management
                Tightly manages Scope and budget of Project to ensure Scope changes and budget planned versus
                 actual are transparent and handled effectively and efficiently.
                Establishes and manages a schedule and Tyler resources that properly support the Project Schedule
                 and are also in balance with Scope/budget.
                Establishes risk/issue tracking/reporting process between the City of Riverton and Tyler and takes all
                 necessary steps to proactively mitigate these items or communicate with transparency to the City of
                 Riverton any items that may impact the outcomes of the Project.
                Collaborates with the City of Riverton ’s project manager(s) to establish key business drivers and
                 success indicators that will help to govern Project activities and key decisions to ensure a quality
                 outcome of the project.
                Collaborates with the City of Riverton ’s project manager(s) to set a routine communication plan that
                 will aide all Project team members, of both the City of Riverton and Tyler, in understanding the goals,
                 objectives, status, and health of the Project.

                 Resource Management
                Acts as liaison between Project team and Tyler manager(s).
                Identifies and coordinates all Tyler resources across all applications, Phases, and activities including
                 development, forms, installation, reports, implementation, and billing.
                Provides direction and support to Project team.
                Manages the appropriate assignment and timely completion of tasks as defined in the Project
                 Schedule, task list, and Go-Live Checklist.
                Assesses team performance and adjusts as necessary.
                Consulted on in Scope 3rd party providers to align activities with ongoing Project tasks.

                 Tyler Implementation Consultant
                Completes tasks as assigned by the Tyler project manager(s).
                Documents activities for services performed by Tyler.
                Guides the City of Riverton through software validation process following configuration.
                Assists during Go-Live process and provides support until the City of Riverton transitions to Client
                 Services.
                Facilitates training sessions and discussions with the City of Riverton and Tyler staff to ensure
                 adequate discussion of the appropriate agenda topics during the allotted time.
                May provide conversion review and error resolution assistance.

                 Tyler Sales
                Supports Sales to Implementation knowledge transfer during Initiate & Plan.
                Provides historical information, as needed, throughout implementation.
                Participates in pricing activities if additional licensing and/or services are needed.

                 Tyler Technical Services
                Maintains Tyler infrastructure requirements and design document(s).
                Involved in system infrastructure planning/review(s).

City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                  Page | 8
                Provides first installation of licensed software with initial database on servers.
                Supports and assists the project team with technical/environmental issues/needs.
                Deploys Tyler products.
                Conducts GIS Planning.
                Reviews GIS data and provides feedback to the City of Riverton.
                Loads City of Riverton provided GIS data into the system.

                 Tyler SaaS Technicians
                Sets up Tyler-hosted servers.
                Provides maintenance of hosted server hardware, operating system, and software upgrades.
                Provides IT-related services for server environment.
                Provides remote technical assistance and tracks issues.
                Provides system management and disaster recovery services within hosting services.
                Performs Tyler software upgrades through coordination with the City of Riverton.

                 Tyler Data Experts
                Validates that customer data files are in proper format.
                Develops customized conversion programs, as necessary, to convert Legacy System data into the
                 Tyler database for production use according to defined mapping.
                Provides error Reports on unsupported data conditions and the merging or normalization of data
                 fields.
                Assists the City of Riverton with understanding and interpreting error Reports.
                Performs changes and corrections to customized conversion programs as the City of Riverton
                 completes the data review.
                Provides conversion consulting and mapping assistance.

                 City of Riverton Roles & Responsibilities
        City of Riverton resources will be assigned prior to the start of each Phase of the Project. One person may be
        assigned to multiple Project roles.

                 City of Riverton Executive Sponsor
        The City of Riverton executive sponsor provides support to the Project by providing strategic direction and
        communicating key issues about the Project and its overall importance to the organization. When called
        upon, the executive sponsor also acts as the final authority on all escalated Project issues. The executive
        sponsor engages in the Project, as needed, to provide necessary support, oversight, guidance, and escalation,
        but does not participate in day-to-day Project activities. The executive sponsor empowers the City of Riverton
        steering committee, project manager(s), and functional leads to make critical business decisions for the City
        of Riverton.

                Champions the project at the executive level to secure buy-in.
                Authorizes required project resources.
                Actively participates in organizational change communications.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                              Page | 9
                 City of Riverton Steering Committee
        The City of Riverton steering committee understands and supports the cultural change necessary for the
        Project and fosters an appreciation for the Project’s value throughout the organization. The steering
        committee oversees the City of Riverton project manager and Project through participation in regular internal
        meetings. The City of Riverton steering committee remains updated on all Project progress, Project decisions,
        and achievement of Project milestones. The City of Riverton steering committee also serves as primary level
        of issue resolution for the Project.

                Works to resolve all decisions and/or issues not resolved at the project manager level as part of the
                 escalation process.
                Attends all scheduled steering committee meetings.
                Provides support for the project team.
                Assists with communicating key project messages throughout the organization.
                Prioritizes the project within the organization.
                Ensures the project staffed appropriately and that staff have necessary resources.
                Monitors project progress including progress towards agreed upon goals and objectives.
                Has the authority to approve or deny changes impacting the following areas:
                     o Cost
                     o Scope
                     o Schedule
                     o Project Goals
                     o City of Riverton Policies
                     o Needs of other client projects

                 City of Riverton Project Manager
        The City of Riverton shall assign project manager(s) prior to the start of this project with overall responsibility
        and authority to make decisions related to Project Scope, scheduling, and task assignment. The City of
        Riverton Project Manager should communicate decisions and commitments to the Tyler project manager(s) in
        a timely and efficient manner. When the City of Riverton project manager(s) do not have the knowledge or
        authority to make decisions, he or she engages the necessary resources to participate in discussions and
        make decisions in a timely fashion to avoid Project delays. The City of Riverton project manager(s) are
        responsible for reporting to the City of Riverton steering committee and determining appropriate escalation
        points.

                 Contract Management
                Validates contract compliance throughout the project.
                Ensures that invoicing and Deliverables meet contract requirements.
                Acts as primary point of contact for all contract and invoicing questions. Collaborates on and
                 approves Change Requests, if needed, to ensure proper scope and budgetary compliance.

                 Planning
                Reviews and accepts project planning documents.
                Defines project tasks and resource requirements for the City of Riverton project team.
                Collaborates in the development and approval of the project schedule.
                Collaborates with Tyler project manager(s) to plan and schedule project timelines to achieve on-time
                 implementation.

City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                              Page | 10
                 Implementation Management
                Tightly manages project budget and scope.
                Collaborates with Tyler project manager(s) to establish a process and approval matrix to ensure that
                 scope changes and budget (planned versus actual) are transparent and handled effectively and
                 efficiently.
                Collaborates with Tyler project manager to establish and manage a schedule and resource plan that
                 properly supports the project schedule as a whole and is also in balance with scope and budget.
                Collaborates with Tyler project manager(s) to establish risk and issue tracking and reporting process
                 between the City of Riverton and Tyler and takes all necessary steps to proactively mitigate these
                 items or communicate with transparency to Tyler any items that may impact the outcomes of the
                 project.
                Collaborates with Tyler project manager(s) to establish key business drivers and success indicators
                 that will help to govern project activities and key decisions to ensure a quality outcome of the project.
                Routinely communicates with both the City of Riverton staff and Tyler, aiding in the understanding of
                 goals, objectives, current status, and health of the project by all team members.
                Manages the requirements gathering process and ensure timely and quality business requirements
                 are being provided to Tyler.

                 Resource Management
                Acts as liaison between project team and stakeholders.
                Identifies and coordinates all City of Riverton resources across all modules, phases, and activities
                 including data conversions, forms design, hardware and software installation, reports building, and
                 satisfying invoices.
                Provides direction and support to project team.
                Builds partnerships among the various stakeholders, negotiating authority to move the project
                 forward.
                Manages the appropriate assignment and timely completion of tasks as defined.
                Assesses team performance and takes corrective action, if needed.
                Provides guidance to City of Riverton technical teams to ensure appropriate response and
                 collaboration with Tyler Technical Support Teams to ensure timely response and appropriate
                 resolution.
                Owns the relationship with in-Scope 3rd party providers and aligns activities with ongoing project
                 tasks.
                Ensures that users have appropriate access to Tyler project toolsets as required.
                Conducts training on proper use of toolsets.
                Validates completion of required assignments using toolsets.

                 City of Riverton Functional Leads
                Makes business process change decisions under time sensitive conditions.
                Communicates existing business processes and procedures to Tyler consultants.
                Assists in identifying business process changes that may require escalation.
                Contributes business process expertise for Current & Future State Analysis.
                Identifies and includes additional subject matter experts to participate in Current & Future State
                 Analysis.
                Validates that necessary skills have been retained by end users.
                Provides End Users with dedicated time to complete required homework tasks.


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                             Page | 11
                Acts as an ambassador/champion of change for the new process and provide business process
                 change support.
                Identifies and communicates any additional training needs or scheduling conflicts to the City of
                 Riverton project manager.
                Actively participates in all aspects of the implementation, including, but not limited to, the following
                 key activities:
                     o Task completion
                     o Stakeholder Meeting
                     o Project Management Plan development
                     o Schedule development
                     o Maintenance and monitoring of risk register
                     o Escalation of issues
                     o Communication with Tyler project team
                     o Coordination of City of Riverton resources
                     o Attendance at scheduled sessions
                     o Change management activities
                     o Modification specification, demonstrations, testing and approval assistance
                     o Data analysis assistance
                     o Decentralized end user training
                     o Process testing
                     o Solution Validation

                 City of Riverton Power Users
                Participate in project activities as required by the project team and project manager(s).
                Provide subject matter expertise on the City of Riverton business processes and requirements.
                Act as subject matter experts and attend Current & Future State Analysis sessions as needed.
                Attend all scheduled training sessions.
                Participate in all required post-training processes as needed throughout project.
                Test all application configuration to ensure it satisfies business process requirements.
                Become application experts.
                Participate in Solution Validation.
                Adopt and support changed procedures.
                Complete all deliverables by the due dates defined in the project schedule.
                Demonstrate competency with Tyler products processing prior to Go-live.
                Provide knowledge transfer to the City of Riverton staff during and after implementation.
                Participate in conversion review and validation.

                 City of Riverton End Users
                Attend all scheduled training sessions.
                Become proficient in application functions related to job duties.
                Adopt and utilize changed procedures.
                Complete all deliverables by the due dates defined in the project schedule.
                Utilize software to perform job functions at and beyond Go-live.

                 City of Riverton Technical Lead
                Coordinates updates and releases with Tyler as needed.


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                              Page | 12
                Coordinates the copying of source databases to training/testing databases as needed for training
                 days.
                Coordinates and adds new users, printers and other peripherals as needed.
                Validates that all users understand log-on process and have necessary permission for all training
                 sessions.
                Coordinates interface development for City of Riverton third party interfaces.
                Develops or assists in creating reports as needed.
                Ensures on-site system meets specifications provided by Tyler.
                Assists with software installation as needed.
                Extracts and transmits conversion data and control reports from the City of Riverton’s legacy system
                 per the conversion schedule set forth in the project schedule.

                 City of Riverton GIS
                Participates in GIS planning activities.
                Responsible for management and maintenance of City of Riverton GIS infrastructure and data.
                Ensures GIS data/service endpoints are in alignment with Tyler software requirements.
                Provides Tyler implementation team with GIS data/service access information.

                 City of Riverton Upgrade Coordination
                Becomes familiar with the software upgrade process and required steps.
                Becomes familiar with Tyler’s releases and updates.
                Utilizes Tyler resources to stay abreast of the latest Tyler releases and updates, as well as the latest
                 helpful tools to manage the City of Riverton’s software upgrade process.
                Assists with the software upgrade process during implementation.
                Manages software upgrade activities post-implementation.
                Manages software upgrade plan activities.
                Coordinates software upgrade plan activities with City of Riverton and Tyler resources.
                Communicates changes affecting users and department stakeholders.
                Obtains department stakeholder acceptance to upgrade production environment.

                 City of Riverton Change Management Lead
                Validates that users receive timely and thorough communication regarding process changes.
                Provides coaching to supervisors to prepare them to support users through the project changes.
                Identifies the impact areas resulting from project activities and develops a plan to address them
                 proactively.
                Identifies areas of resistance and develops a plan to reinforce the change.
                Monitors post-production performance and new process adherence.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                               Page | 13
        Part 3: Project Plan
                   Project Stages
        Work Breakdown Structure

        The Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is a hierarchical representation of a Project or Phase broken down into
        smaller, more manageable components. The top-level components are called “Stages” and the second level
        components are called “Work Packages”. The work packages, shown below each stage, contain the high-level
        work to be done. The detailed Project Schedule, developed during Project/Phase Planning and finalized during
        subsequent stages, lists the tasks to be completed within each work package. Each stage ends with a “Control
        Point”, confirming the work performed during that stage of the Project has been accepted by the City of
        Riverton.




         *Items noted with an asterisk in the graphic above relate to specific products and services. If those products and services are not included in the scope
                    of the contract, these specific work packages will be noted as “Intentionally Left Blank” in Section 6 of the Statement of Work.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                              Page | 14
                 Initiate and Plan
        The Initiate and Plan stage involves Project initiation, infrastructure, and planning. This stage creates a
        foundation for the Project by identifying and establishing sequence and timing for each Phase as well as
        verifying scope for the Project. This stage will be conducted at the onset of the Project, with a few unique
        items being repeated for the additional Phases as needed.

                 Initial Coordination
        Prior to Project commencement, Tyler management assigns project manager(s). Additional Project resources
        will be assigned later in the Project as a Project schedule is developed. Tyler provides the City of Riverton with
        initial Project documents used to gather names of key personnel, their functional role as it pertains to the
        Project, as well as any blackout dates to consider for future planning. the City of Riverton gathers the
        information requested by the provided deadline ensuring preliminary planning and scheduling can be
        conducted moving the Project forward in a timely fashion. Internally, the Tyler Project Manager(s) coordinate
        with sales to ensure transfer of vital information from the sales process prior to scheduling a Project Planning
        Meeting with the City of Riverton’s team. During this step, Tyler will work with the City of Riverton to
        establish the date(s) for the Project and Phase Planning session.

        Objectives:

                Formally launch the project.
                Establish project governance.
                Define and communicate governance for Tyler.
                Identify City of Riverton project team.

         STAGE 1                            Initial Coordination

                                            Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Change Management Leads
                                                                                                           Implementation Consultant




         A = Accountable
                                                                Implementation Manager




         C = Consulted
                                                                                                                                                      Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Steering Committee




         I = Informed
                                            Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                              Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Functional Leads
                                                                                         Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Client Services
                                                                                                                                       Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                End Users




         Tyler project team is assigned     A                   R                        C                 I                           I              I                       I                                      I                                        I
         City of Riverton project team is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A                   I                    R                 I                  I                         I
         assigned
         Provide initial project
         documents to the City of                               A                        R                 C                                                                  C                                      I                                        I
         Riverton
         Gather preliminary information
                                                                                         I                                                                                                                           A                                        R                 C                                            C                                                  C           C
         requested
         Sales to implementation
                                                                A                        R                 I                           I              I                       I                                                                               I
         knowledge transfer




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Page | 15
         Create Project Portal to store
         project artifacts and facilitate         A    R                                       I
         communication


         Inputs                        Contract documents
                                       Statement of Work

         Outputs/Deliverables         Completed initial project documents
                                      Project portal


        Work package assumptions:

                 Project activities begin after the agreement has been fully executed.

                  Project/Phase Planning
        Project and Phase planning provides an opportunity to review the contract, software, data conversions and
        services purchased, identify applications to implement in each Phase (if applicable), and discuss
        implementation timeframes.

        During this work package Tyler will work with the City of Riverton to coordinate and plan a formal Project
        planning meeting(s). This meeting signifies the start of the Project and should be attended by all City of
        Riverton Project team members and the Tyler Project Manager. The meeting provides an opportunity for
        Tyler to introduce its implementation methodology, terminology, and Project management best practices to
        the City of Riverton’s Project Team. This will also present an opportunity for project managers and Project
        sponsors to begin to discuss Project communication, metrics, status reporting and tools to be used to
        measure Project progress and manage change.

        Tyler will work with the City of Riverton Project Team to prepare and deliver the Project Management Plan as
        an output of the planning meeting. This plan will continue to evolve and grow as the Project progresses and
        will describe how the project will be executed, monitored, and controlled.

        During project planning, Tyler will introduce the tools that will be used throughout the implementation. Tyler
        will familiarize the City of Riverton with these tools during project planning and make them available for
        review and maintenance as applicable throughout the project. Some examples are Solution validation plan,
        issue log, and go-live checklist.

         STAGE 1                   Project/Phase Planning

                                   Tyler                                    City of Riverton




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                           Page | 16
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Change Management Leads
                                                                                                  Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable




                                                       Implementation Manager
         C = Consulted




                                                                                                                                             Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Steering Committee
         I = Informed




                                  Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                     Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Functional Leads
                                                                                Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                          Client Services
                                                                                                                              Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    U    )
         Schedule and
         conduct planning                              A                        R                                                                                                                           I                                        C                 C                  I
         session(s)
         Develop Project
                                                       A                        R                                                                                                                           I                                        C                 C                  I
         Management Plan
         Develop initial
                                                       A                        R                 I                           I              I                       I                                      I                   I                    C                 C                  I                         I                 C                         I
         project schedule

         Inputs                                                           Contract documents
                                                                          Statement of Work
                                                                          Guide to Starting Your Project


         Outputs / Deliverables                                                                                                                                                           Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
                                                              Project Management Plan                                                                                                     Delivery of document
                                                              Project Operational Plan                                                                                                    Delivery of document
                                                              Initial Project Schedule                                                                                                    City of Riverton provides acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                                          schedule based on resource availability,
                                                                                                                                                                                          project budget, and goals.


        Work package assumptions:

                 City of Riverton has reviewed and completed the Guide to Starting Your Project document.

                  Infrastructure Planning
        Procuring required hardware and setting it up properly is a critical part of a successful implementation. This
        task is especially important for Tyler-hosted/SaaS deployment models. Tyler will be responsible for building
        the environments for a hosted/SaaS deployment, unless otherwise identified in the Agreement. Tyler will
        install Licensed Software on application server(s) or train the City of Riverton to install License Software. The
        City of Riverton is responsible for the installation and setup of all peripheral devices.

        Objectives:

                 Ensure the City of Riverton’s infrastructure meets Tyler’s application requirements.
                 Ensure the City of Riverton’s infrastructure is scheduled to be in place and available for use on time.

         STAGE 1                                      Infrastructure Planning

                                                      Tyler                                                                                                                                                              City of Riverton


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page | 17
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Change Management Leads
                                                                                                      Implementation Consultant
                                                           Implementation Manager
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Subject Matter Experts
         A = Accountable




                                                                                                                                                 Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Steering Committee
         C = Consulted




                                       Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                         Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Functional Leads
                                                                                    Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Project Manager
         I = Informed




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                              Client Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     )
                                                                                                                                  Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (P      U
         Provide Infrastructure
         Requirements and Design                           A                        R                                             C                                      C                                                                               I                                                                                                    I
         Document
         Initial Infrastructure
                                                           A                        R                                             C                                      C                                                                               C                                                                                                    C
         Meeting
         *Schedule SaaS
                                                           A                        R                                                                                    C                                                                               I
         Environment Availability
         *Schedule Hardware to
         be Available for                                                           I                                                                                    I                                      A                                        R                                                                                                    C
         Installation
         Schedule Installation of
                                                           A                        R                                                                                    C                                                                               I                                                                                                    I
         All Licensed Software
         Infrastructure Audit                              A                        R                                                                                    C                                                                               I                                                                                                    C

         Inputs            1. Initial Infrastructure Requirements and Design Document

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                             Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           1. Completed Infrastructure Requirements                                                                                                                            Delivery of Document
                           and Design Document
                           2. Infrastructure Audit                                                                                                                                             System Passes Audit Criteria



                  Stakeholder Meeting
        Communication of the Project planning outcomes to the City of Riverton Project team, executives and other
        key stakeholders is vital to Project success. The Stakeholder meeting is a strategic activity to inform, engage,
        gain commitment, and instill confidence in the City of Riverton team. During the meeting, the goals and
        objectives of the Project will be reviewed along with detail on Project scope, implementation methodology,
        roles and responsibilities, Project timeline and schedule, and keys to Project success.

        Objectives:

                 Formally present and communicate the project activities and timeline.
                 Communicate project expectations.

         STAGE 1                      Stakeholder Meeting

                                      Tyler                                                                                                                                                                     City of Riverton




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Page | 18
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Change Management Leads
                                                                                                    Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable




                                                         Implementation Manager
         C = Consulted




                                                                                                                                               Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Steering Committee
         I = Informed




                                     Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                       Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Functional Leads
                                                                                  Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                             Client Services
                                                                                                                                Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U    )
         Create Stakeholder
                                     I                   A                        R                 I                           I                                                                              I                   I                    C                                    I
         Meeting Presentation
         Review Stakeholder
                                                         I                        C                                                                                                                            A                                        R                                    C
         Meeting Presentation
         Perform Stakeholder
                                     I                   A                        R                 I                           I                                                                              I                   I                    C                 I                  I                          I                 I             I           I
         Meeting Presentation


         Inputs            Agreement
                           SOW
                           Project Management Plan

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                          Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Stakeholder Meeting Presentation


        Work package assumptions:

                 None

                  GIS Preparation
        GIS data is a core part of many Tyler applications. Other City of Riverton offices/products may also use this
        data and have different GIS requirements. A key focus of this preparation will be the process for developing
        the GIS data for use with Tyler applications. This can be an iterative process, so it is important to begin
        preparation early.

        Objectives:

                 Identify all City of Riverton GIS data sources and formats.
                 Tyler to understand the City of Riverton’s GIS needs and practices.
                 Ensure the City of Riverton’s GIS data meets Tyler product requirements.

         STAGE 1                     GIS Preparation

                                     Tyler                                                                                                                                                                     City of Riverton




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page | 19
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Change Management Leads
                                                                                                    Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable




                                                         Implementation Manager
         C = Consulted




                                                                                                                                               Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Steering Committee
         I = Informed




                                     Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                       Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Functional Leads
                                                                                  Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                            Client Services
                                                                                                                                Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       U    )
         Initial GIS Planning
                                                         A                        R                                                                                    C                                                                               C                                                                                                           C
         Meeting
         Determine all GIS Data
                                                                                  I                                                                                    I                                      A                                        R                                                                                                           C
         Sources
         Provide Source GIS Data                                                  I                                                                                    I                                      A                                        R                                                                                                           C
         Review GIS Data and
                                                         A                        R                                                                                    C                                                                               I                                                                                                           C
         Provide Feedback

         Inputs            GIS Requirements Document

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                           Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Production Ready Map Data                                                                                                                                         Meets Tyler GIS Requirements.


        Work package assumptions:

                 GIS data provided to Tyler is accurate and complete.
                 GIS data provided to Tyler is current.
                 City of Riverton is responsible for maintaining the GIS data.

                  Control Point 1: Initiate & Plan Stage Acceptance
        Acceptance criteria for this stage includes completion of all criteria listed below.

        Note: Advancement to the Assess & Define stage is not dependent upon Tyler’s receipt of this stage
        acceptance.

        Initiate & Plan Stage Deliverables:

                 Project Management Plan
                 Initial Project Schedule

        Initiate & Plan stage acceptance criteria:

                 All stage deliverables accepted based on acceptance criteria previously defined
                 Project governance defined
                 Project portal made available to the City of Riverton
                 Stakeholder meeting complete
                 GIS Data Production Ready
                 Completed Infrastructure Requirements and Design Document
                 System Passes Infrastructure Audit (as applicable)

City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Page | 20
                  Assess & Define
        The Assess & Define stage will provide an opportunity to gather information related to current City of
        Riverton business processes. This information will be used to identify and define business processes utilized
        with Tyler software. The City of Riverton collaborates with Tyler providing complete and accurate information
        to Tyler staff and assisting in analysis, understanding current workflows and business processes.

                  Solution Orientation
        The Solution Orientation provides the Project stakeholders a high-level understanding of the solution
        functionality prior to beginning the current and future state analysis. The primary goal is to establish a
        foundation for upcoming conversations regarding the design and configuration of the solution.

        Tyler utilizes a variety of tools for the Solution Orientation, focusing on City of Riverton team knowledge
        transfer such as: eLearning, documentation, or walkthroughs. The City of Riverton team will gain a better
        understanding of the major processes and focus on data flow, the connection between configuration options
        and outcome, integration, and terminology that may be unique to Tyler’s solution.

        Objectives:

                 Provide a basic understanding of system functionality.
                 Prepare the City of Riverton for current and future state analysis.

         STAGE 2                      Solution Orientation

                                      Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Change Management Leads
                                                                                                     Implementation Consultant




         A = Accountable
                                                          Implementation Manager




         C = Consulted
                                                                                                                                                Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Steering Committee




         I = Informed
                                      Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                        Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Functional Leads
                                                                                   Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                             Client Services
                                                                                                                                 Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U    )




         Provide pre-requisites                                                    A                 R                                                                                                                                                  I                 I                                             I                 I                         I
         Complete pre-requisites                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A                 R                                             C                                           C
         Conduct orientation                                                       A                 R                                                                                                                                                  I                 I                                             I                 I                         I

         Inputs            Solution orientation materials
                           Training Plan

                  Current & Future State Analysis
        The Current & Future State Analysis provides the Project stakeholders and Tyler an understanding of process
        changes that will be achieved with the new system.

        The City of Riverton and Tyler will evaluate current state processes, options within the new software, pros
        and cons of each based on current or desired state and make decisions about the future state configuration
        and processing. This may occur before or within the same timeframe as the configuration work package. The

City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page | 21
        options within the new software will be limited to the scope of this implementation and will make use of
        standard Tyler functionality.

        The City of Riverton will adopt the existing Tyler solution wherever possible to avoid project schedule and
        quality risk from over customization of Tyler products. It is the City of Riverton’s responsibility to verify that
        in-scope requirements are being met throughout the implementation if functional requirements are defined
        as part of the contract. The following guidelines will be followed when evaluating if a modification to the
        product is required:

                 A reasonable business process change is available.
                 Functionality exists which satisfies the requirement.
                 Configuration of the application satisfies the requirement.
                 An in-scope modification satisfies the requirement.

        Requirements that are not met will follow the agreed upon change control process and can have impacts on
        the project schedule, scope, budget, and resource availability.

         STAGE 2                      Current & Future State Analysis

                                      Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Change Management Leads
                                                                                                     Implementation Consultant




         A = Accountable
                                                          Implementation Manager




         C = Consulted
                                                                                                                                                Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Steering Committee
         I = Informed
                                      Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                        Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Functional Leads
                                                                                   Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                             Client Services
                                                                                                                                 Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U    )
         Current State process
                                                                                   A                 R                           I              I                       I                                                                               C                 C                  C                          C                                           C
         review
         Discuss future-state
                                                                                   A                 R                           C              C                       C                                                                               C                 C                  C                          C                                           C
         options
         Make future-state
                                                                                   C                 C                           C              C                       C                                                                               A                 R                  I                          C                                           C
         decisions (non-COTS)
         Document anticipated
         configuration options
                                                                                   A                 R                           C              C                       C                                                                               I                 I                  I                          I                                           I
         required to support
         future state

         Inputs            City of Riverton current state documentation
                           Solution Orientation completion

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                            Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Documentation that describes future-state                                                                                                                          Delivery of document
                           decisions and configuration options to support
                           future-state decisions.


        Work package assumptions:

City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page | 22
                 City of Riverton attendees possess sufficient knowledge and authority to make future state decisions.
                 The City of Riverton is responsible for any documentation of current state business processes.
                 The City of Riverton can effectively communicate current state processes.

                  Conversion Assessment
        Data Conversions are a major effort in any software implementation. Tyler’s conversion tools facilitate the
        predictable, repeatable conversion process that is necessary to support a successful transition to the Tyler
        system. The first step in this process is to perform an assessment of the existing (“legacy”) system(s), to
        better understand the source data, risks, and options available. Once the data has been analyzed, the plan for
        data conversion is completed and communicated to the appropriate stakeholders.

        Objectives:

                 Communicate a common understanding of the project goals with respect to data.
                 Ensure complete and accurate source data is available for review/transfer.
                 Map the data from the source to the Tyler system.
                 Document the data conversion/loading approach.

         STAGE 2                  Data Conversion Assessment

                                  Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Change Management Leads
                                                                                                 Implementation Consultant




         A = Accountable
                                                      Implementation Manager




         C = Consulted
                                                                                                                                            Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Steering Committee

         I = Informed
                                  Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                    Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Functional Leads
                                                                               Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                         Client Services
                                                                                                                             Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   End Users
         Extract Data from                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         U    )
                                                                               I                                             C                                                                                                                      A                                                                                                          R
         Source Systems
         Review and Scrub
                                                                               I                 I                           I                                                                                                                      A                 R                                            C                                           I
         Source Data
         Build/Update Data
                                                                               R                 C                           C                                                                                                                      C                 I                  I                         I                                           I
         Conversion Plan


         Inputs                City of Riverton Source data
                               City of Riverton Source data Documentation (if available)



         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                       Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                               Data Conversion Plan built/updated                                                                                                                        City of Riverton Acceptance of Data
                                                                                                                                                                                         Conversion Plan, if Applicable


        Work package assumptions:


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Page | 23
                Tyler will be provided with data from the Legacy system(s) in a mutually agreed upon format.
                Tyler will work with the City of Riverton representatives to identify business rules before writing the
                 conversion.
                City of Riverton subject matter experts and resources most familiar with the current data will be
                 involved in the data conversion planning effort.

                 Intentionally left blank.
                 Intentionally left blank.
                 Control Point 2: Assess & Define Stage Acceptance
        Acceptance criteria for this Stage includes completion of all criteria listed below.

        Note: Advancement to the Prepare Solution Stage is dependent upon Tyler’s receipt of the Stage Acceptance.

        Assess & Define Stage Deliverables:

                Documentation of future state decisions and configuration options to support future state decisions.
                Modification specification document.
                Assess & Define Stage Acceptance Criteria:
                All stage deliverables accepted based on criteria previously defined.
                Solution Orientation is delivered.
                Conversion data extracts are received by Tyler.
                Data conversion plan built.

                 Prepare Solution
        During the Prepare Solution stage, information gathered during the Initiate & Plan and Assess & Define stages
        will be used to install and configure the Tyler software solution. Software configuration will be validated by
        the City of Riverton against future state decisions defined in previous stages and processes refined as needed
        to ensure business requirements are met.

                 Initial System Deployment
        The timely availability of the Tyler Solution is important to a successful Project implementation. The success
        and timeliness of subsequent work packages are contingent upon the initial system deployment of Tyler
        Licensed Software on an approved network and infrastructure. Delays in executing this work package can
        affect the project schedule.

        Objectives:

                All licensed software is installed and operational.
                The City of Riverton can access the software.

         STAGE 3              Initial System Deployment (Hosted/SaaS)*

                              Tyler                                       City of Riverton




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                             Page | 24
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Change Management Leads
                                                                                               Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable




                                                    Implementation Manager
         C = Consulted




                                                                                                                                          Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Steering Committee
         I = Informed



                                Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                  Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Functional Leads
                                                                             Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                       Client Services
                                                                                                                           Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Users)
         Prepare hosted
                                                                             A                                                                                    R                                                                                 I                                                                                                          C
         environment
         Install Licensed
         Software with
         Initial Database on
                                                                             A                                                                                    R                                                                                 I                                                                                                          C
         Server(s) for
         Included
         Environments
         Install Licensed
         Software on City of
                                                                             I                                                                                    C                                                                                 A                                                                                                          R
         Riverton Devices (if
         applicable)
         Tyler System
         Administration
                                                                             A                                                                                    R                                                                                 I                                                                                                          C
         Training (if
         applicable)


         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                                       Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Licensed Software is Installed on the Server(s)                                                                                                                               Software is accessible
                           Licensed Software is Installed on City of                                                                                                                                     Software is accessible
                           Riverton Devices (if applicable)
                           Installation Checklist/System Document                                                                                                                                        System Passes
                           Infrastructure Design Document (C&J – If
                           Applicable)


        Work package assumptions:

                The most current available version of the Tyler Licensed Software will be installed.
                The City of Riverton will provide network access for Tyler modules, printers, and Internet access to all
                 applicable City of Riverton and Tyler Project staff.

                 Configuration
        The purpose of Configuration is to prepare the software product for validation.

        Tyler staff collaborates with the City of Riverton to complete software configuration based on the outputs of
        the future state analysis performed during the Assess and Define Stage. The City of Riverton collaborates with
        Tyler staff iteratively to validate software configuration.



City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Page | 25
        Objectives:

                 Software is ready for validation.
                 Educate the City of Riverton Power User how to configure and maintain software.
                 Prepare standard interfaces for process validation (if applicable).

         STAGE 3                      Configuration

                                      Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Change Management Leads
                                                                                                     Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable                                  Implementation Manager
         C = Consulted




                                                                                                                                                Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Steering Committee
         I = Informed
                                      Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                        Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Functional Leads
                                                                                   Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                             Client Services
                                                                                                                                 Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U    )
         Conduct configuration
                                                                                   A                 R                                                                                                                                                  I                 C                                             C
         training
         Complete Tyler
         configuration tasks                                                       A                 R                                                                                                                                                  I                 I                                             I
         (where applicable)
         Complete City of
         Riverton configuration                                                    I                 C                                                                                                                                                  A                 R                                             C
         tasks (where applicable)
         Standard interfaces
         configuration and                                                         A                 R                                                                  C                                                                               I                 C                                             C                                           C
         training (if applicable)
         Updates to Solution
                                                                                   C                 C                                                                                                                                                  A                 R                                             C                                           C
         Validation testing plan

         Inputs            Documentation that describes future state decisions and configuration options to support future
                           state decisions.

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                              Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Configured System                                                                                                                                                    N/A


        Work package assumptions:

                 Tyler provides guidance for configuration options available within the Tyler software. The City of
                  Riverton is responsible for making decisions when multiple options are available.

                  Process Refinement
        Tyler will educate the City of Riverton users on how to execute processes in the system to prepare them for
        the validation of the software. The City of Riverton collaborates with Tyler staff iteratively to validate software
        configuration options to support future state.



City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page | 26
        Objectives:

                 Ensure that the City of Riverton understands future state processes and how to execute the
                  processes in the software.
                 Refine each process to meet the business requirements.
                 Validate standard interfaces, where applicable.
                 Validate forms and reports, where applicable.

         STAGE 3                Process Refinement

                                Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Change Management Leads
         A = Accountable                                                                       Implementation Consultant
                                                    Implementation Manager




         C = Consulted


                                                                                                                                          Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Steering Committee
         I = Informed
                                Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                  Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Functional Leads
                                                                             Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                       Client Services
                                                                                                                           Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Users)
         Conduct process
                                                                             A                 R                                                                                                                                                  I                 C                  I                         C
         training
         Confirm process
                                                                             I                 C                                                                                                                             A                    R                 C                  I                         C
         decisions
         Test configuration                                                  I                 C                                                                                                                                                  A                 R                                            C
         Refine
         configuration (City
                                                                             I                 C                                                                                                                                                  A                 R                                            C
         of Riverton
         Responsible)
         Refine
         configuration (Tyler                                                A                 R                                                                                                                                                  I                 I                                            I
         Responsible)
         Validate interface
                                                                             I                 C                                                                  C                                                                               A                 R                                            C                                           C
         process and results
         Update City of
         Riverton-specific
         process                                                             I                 C                                                                                                                                                  A                 R                                            C
         documentation (if
         applicable)
         Updates to
         Solution Validation                                                 C                 C                                                                                                                                                  A                 R                                            C                                           C
         testing plan

         Inputs            Initial Configuration
                           Documentation that describes future state decisions and configuration options to support
                           future state decisions.
                           Solution validation test plan

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                           Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Updated solution validation test plan


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Page | 27
                           Completed City of Riverton-specific process
                           documentation (completed by City of
                           Riverton)

        Work package assumptions:

                None

                 Conversion Delivery
        The purpose of this task is to transition the City of Riverton’s data from their source (“legacy”) system(s) to
        the Tyler system(s). The data will need to be mapped from the legacy system into the new Tyler system
        format. A well-executed data conversion is key to a successful cutover to the new system(s).

        With guidance from Tyler, the City of Riverton will review specific data elements within the system and
        identify / report discrepancies. Iteratively, Tyler will collaborate with the City of Riverton to address
        conversion discrepancies. This process will allow for clean, reconciled data to transfer from the source
        system(s) to the Tyler system(s). Reference Conversion Appendix for additional detail.




        Objectives:

                Data is ready for production (Conversion).

         STAGE 3             Data Delivery & Conversion

                             Tyler                                       City of Riverton




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                             Page | 28
         RACI MATRIX




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Subject Matter Experts (Power
         KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Change Management Leads
                                                                                             Implementation Consultant
         R = Responsible




                                                  Implementation Manager
         A = Accountable




                                                                                                                                        Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Steering Committee
         C = Consulted


                              Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                Technical Services
         I = Informed




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Functional Leads
                                                                           Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                     Client Services
                                                                                                                         Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Users)
         Provide data
         crosswalks/code                                                   A                 C                           R                                                                                                                       I                 I                                            I
         mapping tool
         Populate data
         crosswalks/code                                                   I                 C                           C                                                                                                                       A                 R                                            C
         mapping tool
         Iterations:
         Conversion                                                        A                 C                           R                                                                                                                       I                                                                                                          I
         Development
         Iterations:
         Deliver                                                           A                                             R                                      I                                                                                I                                                                                                          I
         converted data
         Iterations:
         Proof/Review
         data and                                                          C                 C                           C                                                                                                                       A                 R                                            C                                           C
         reconcile to
         source system


         Inputs
                           Data Conversion Plan
                           Configuration

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                                     Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Code Mapping Complete / Validated                                                                                                                                           N/A
                           Conversion Iterations / Reviews Complete                                                                                                                                    Conversion complete, verified, and ready for
                                                                                                                                                                                                       final pass

        Work package assumptions:

                 The City of Riverton will provide a single file layout per source system as identified in the investment
                  summary.
                 The City of Riverton subject matter experts and resources most familiar with the current data will be
                  involved in the data conversion effort.
                 The City of Riverton project team will be responsible for completing the code mapping activity, with
                  assistance from Tyler.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Page | 29
                 Intentionally left blank.
                 Intentionally left blank.
                 Control Point 3: Prepare Solution Stage Acceptance
        Acceptance criteria for this Stage includes all criteria listed below in each Work Package.

        Note: Advancement to the Production Readiness Stage is dependent upon Tyler’s receipt of the Stage
        Acceptance.

        Prepare Solution Stage Deliverables:

                Licensed software is installed.
                Installation checklist/system document.
                Updated solution design document (Socrata only).
                Prioritized data sets for review in Tyler system (Socrata only).
                Conversion iterations and reviews complete.

        Prepare Solution Stage Acceptance Criteria:

                All stage deliverables accepted based on criteria previously defined.
                Software is configured.
                Solution validation test plan has been reviewed and updated if needed.

                 Production Readiness
        Activities in the Production Readiness stage will prepare the City of Riverton team for go-live through solution
        validation, the development of a detailed go-live plan and end user training. A readiness assessment will be
        conducted with the City of Riverton to review the status of the project and the organizations readiness for go-
        live.

                 Solution Validation
        Solution Validation is the end-to-end software testing activity to ensure that the City of Riverton verifies all
        aspects of the Project (hardware, configuration, business processes, etc.) are functioning properly, and
        validates that all features and functions per the contract have been deployed for system use.

        Objectives:

                Validate that the solution performs as indicated in the solution validation plan.
                Ensure the City of Riverton organization is ready to move forward with go-live and training (if
                 applicable).

         STAGE 4                    Solution Validation

                                    Tyler                                     City of Riverton




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                              Page | 30
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Change Management Leads
                                                                                                      Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable




                                                           Implementation Manager
         C = Consulted




                                                                                                                                                 Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Steering Committee
         I = Informed




                                       Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                         Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Functional Leads
                                                                                    Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                              Client Services
                                                                                                                                  Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         U    )
         Update Solution
                                                                                    A                 R                           C                                                                                                                      C                 C                                             C
         Validation plan
         Update test scripts (as
                                                                                    C                 C                           C                                                                                                                      A                 R                                             C
         applicable)
         Perform testing                                                            C                 C                           C                                                                                                                      A                 R                                             C
         Document issues from
                                                                                    C                 C                           C                                                                                                                      A                 R                                             C
         testing
         Perform required follow-
                                                                                    A                 R                           C                                                                                                                      C                 C                                             C
         up on issues

         Inputs            Solution Validation plan
                           Completed work product from prior stages (configuration, business process, etc.)

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                             Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Solution Validation Report                                                                                                                                          City of Riverton updates report with testing
                                                                                                                                                                                               results


        Work package assumptions:

                 Designated testing environment has been established.
                 Testing includes current phase activities or deliverables only.

                  Go-Live Readiness
        Tyler and the City of Riverton will ensure that all requirements defined in Project planning have been
        completed and the Go-Live event can occur, as planned. A go-live readiness assessment will be completed
        identifying risks or actions items to be addressed to ensure the City of Riverton has considered its ability to
        successfully Go-Live. Issues and concerns will be discussed, and mitigation options documented. Tyler and the
        City of Riverton will jointly agree to move forward with transition to production. Expectations for final
        preparation and critical dates for the weeks leading into and during the Go-Live week will be planned in detail
        and communicated to Project teams.

        Objectives:

                 Action plan for go-live established.
                 Assess go-live readiness.
                 Stakeholders informed of go-live activities.

         STAGE 4                           Go-Live Readiness


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Page | 31
                                        Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Change Management Leads
                                                                                                       Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable




                                                            Implementation Manager
         C = Consulted




                                                                                                                                                  Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Steering Committee
         I = Informed




                                        Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                          Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Functional Leads
                                                                                     Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                               Client Services
                                                                                                                                   Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          U    )
         Perform Readiness
                                        I                   A                        R                 C                           C              I                       C                    I                 I                   I                    I                                    I                                                                      I
         Assessment
         Conduct Go-Live planning
                                                            A                        R                 C                                                                                                                                                  C                 C                  C                          C                 C                         C
         session
         Order peripheral
                                                                                     I                                                                                                                                               A                    R                                                                                                           C
         hardware (if applicable)
         Confirm procedures for
         Go-Live issue reporting &                             A                     R                 I                           I              I                       I                                                                               C                 C                  I                          I                 I             I           I
         resolution
         Develop Go-Live checklist                          A                        R                 C                           C                                                                                                                      C                 C                  I                          C                                           C
         Final system
         infrastructure review                                                       A                                                                                    R                                                                               C                                                                                                           C
         (where applicable)

         Inputs            Future state decisions
                           Go-live checklist

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                             Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                            Updated go-live checklist                                                                                                                                          Updated Action plan and Checklist for go-live
                                                                                                                                                                                               delivered to the City of Riverton
        Work package assumptions:

                 None

                  End User Training
        End User Training is a critical part of any successful software implementation. Using a training plan previously
        reviewed and approved, the Project team will organize and initiate the training activities.

        Train the Trainer: Tyler provides one occurrence of each scheduled training or implementation topic. City of
        Riverton users who attended the Tyler sessions may train additional users. Additional Tyler led sessions may
        be contracted at the applicable rates for training.

        Tyler will provide standard application documentation for the general use of the software. It is not Tyler’s
        responsibility to develop City of Riverton specific business process documentation. City of Riverton-led
        training labs using City of Riverton specific business process documentation if created by the City of Riverton
        can be added to the regular training curriculum, enhancing the training experiences of the end users.

        Objectives:


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Page | 32
                 End users are trained on how to use the software prior to go-live.
                 The City of Riverton is prepared for on-going training and support of the application.

         STAGE 4                       End User Training

                                       Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Change Management Leads
                                                                                                      Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable


                                                           Implementation Manager
         C = Consulted




                                                                                                                                                 Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Steering Committee
         I = Informed
                                       Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                         Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Functional Leads
                                                                                    Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                              Client Services
                                                                                                                                  Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         U    )
         Update training plan                              A                        R                 C                                                                                                                                                  C                                    I                                            C
         End User training (Tyler-
                                                           A                        R                 C                                                                                                                                                  C                 C                  I                          C                 C             C
         led)
         Train-the-trainer                                 A                        R                 C                                                                                                                                                  C                 C                  I                          C
         End User training (City of
                                                                                    C                 C                                                                                                                                                  A                 R                  I                          C                 C             C
         Riverton-led)

         Inputs            Training Plan
                           List of End Users and their Roles / Job Duties
                           Configured Tyler System

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                             Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           End User Training                                                                                                                                                   City of Riverton signoff that training was
                                                                                                                                                                                               delivered


        Work package assumptions:

                 The City of Riverton project team will work with Tyler to jointly develop a training curriculum that
                  identifies the size, makeup, and subject-area of each of the training classes.
                 Tyler will work with the City of Riverton as much as possible to provide end-user training in a manner
                  that minimizes the impact to the daily operations of City of Riverton departments.
                 The City of Riverton will be responsible for training new users after go-live (exception—previously
                  planned or regular training offerings by Tyler).

                  Control Point 4: Production Readiness Stage Acceptance
        Acceptance criteria for this stage includes all criteria listed below. Advancement to the Production stage is
        dependent upon Tyler’s receipt of the stage acceptance.

        Production Readiness stage deliverables:

                 Solution Validation Report.
                 Update go-live action plan and checklist.
                 End user training.

City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Page | 33
        Production Readiness stage acceptance criteria:

                All stage deliverables accepted based on criteria previously defined.
                Go-Live planning session conducted.

                 Production
        Following end user training the production system will be fully enabled and made ready for daily operational
        use as of the scheduled date. Tyler and the City of Riverton will follow the comprehensive action plan laid out
        during Go-Live Readiness to support go-live activities and minimize risk to the Project during go-live.
        Following go-live, Tyler will work with the City of Riverton to verify that implementation work is concluded,
        post go-live activities are scheduled, and the transition to Client Services is complete for long-term operations
        and maintenance of the Tyler software.

                 Go-Live
        Following the action plan for Go-Live, defined in the Production Readiness stage, the City of Riverton and
        Tyler will complete work assigned to prepare for Go-Live.

        The City of Riverton provides final data extract and Reports from the Legacy System for data conversion and
        Tyler executes final conversion iteration, if applicable. If defined in the action plan, the City of Riverton
        manually enters any data added to the Legacy System after final data extract into the Tyler system.

        Tyler staff collaborates with the City of Riverton during Go-Live activities. The City of Riverton transitions to
        Tyler software for day-to day business processing.

        Some training topics are better addressed following Go-Live when additional data is available in the system or
        based on timing of applicable business processes and will be scheduled following Go-Live per the Project
        Schedule.

        Objectives:

                Execute day to day processing in Tyler software.
                City of Riverton data available in Production environment.

         STAGE 5                     Go-Live

                                     Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Subject Matter Experts (Power




         R = Responsible
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Change Management Leads
                                                                                                    Implementation Consultant




         A = Accountable
                                                         Implementation Manager




         C = Consulted
                                                                                                                                               Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Steering Committee




         I = Informed
                                     Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                       Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Functional Leads
                                                                                  Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                            Client Services
                                                                                                                                Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       U    )




         Provide final source data
                                                                                  C                                             C                                                                                                                      A                                                                                                           R
         extract, if applicable



City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Page | 34
         Final source data pushed
         into production
                                                 A    C    R                              I      C         C               C
         environment, if
         applicable
         Proof final converted
                                                 C    C    C                              A      R         C
         data, if applicable
         Complete Go-Live
         activities as defined in                C    C    C                        A     R      C   I     C
         the Go-Live action plan
         Provide Go-Live
                                                 A    R    C       C     I                C      C   I     C           I   C
         assistance

         Inputs            Comprehensive Action Plan for Go-Live
                           Final source data (if applicable)

         Outputs /                                                       Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Data is available in production environment   City of Riverton confirms data is available in
                                                                         production environment


        Work package assumptions:

                 The City of Riverton will complete activities documented in the action plan for Go-Live as scheduled.
                 External stakeholders will be available to assist in supporting the interfaces associated with the Go-
                  Live live process.
                 The City of Riverton business processes required for Go-Live are fully documented and tested.
                 The City of Riverton Project team and subject matter experts are the primary point of contact for the
                  end users when reporting issues during Go-Live.
                 The City of Riverton Project Team and Power User’s provide business process context to the end
                  users during Go-Live.
                 The Tyler Go-Live support team is available to consult with the City of Riverton teams as necessary.
                 The Tyler Go-Live support team provides standard functionality responses, which may not be tailored
                  to the local business processes.

                  Transition to Client Services
        This work package signals the conclusion of implementation activities for the Phase or Project with the
        exception of agreed-upon post Go-Live activities. The Tyler project manager(s) schedules a formal transition
        of the City of Riverton onto the Tyler Client Services team, who provides the City of Riverton with assistance
        following Go-Live, officially transitioning the City of Riverton to operations and maintenance.

        Objectives:

                 Ensure no critical issues remain for the project teams to resolve.
                 Confirm proper knowledge transfer to the City of Riverton teams for key processes and subject areas.

         STAGE 5                      Transition to Client Services

                                      Tyler                                   City of Riverton



City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                 Page | 35
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Change Management Leads
                                                                                                      Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable




                                                           Implementation Manager
         C = Consulted




                                                                                                                                                 Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Steering Committee
         I = Informed




                                       Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                         Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Functional Leads
                                                                                    Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                               Client Services
                                                                                                                                  Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          U    )
         Transfer City of Riverton
         to Client Services and
                                      I                    I                        A                 I                           I                                                            R                 I                   I                    C                 C                                             C
         review issue reporting
         and resolution processes
         Review long term
         maintenance and
                                                                                    A                                                                                                          R                                                          C                 C                                             C
         continuous
         improvement

         Inputs            Open item/issues List

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                            Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Client Services Support Document


        Work package assumptions:

                 No material project issues remain without assignment and plan.

                  Post Go-Live Activities
        Some implementation activities are provided post-production due to the timing of business processes, the
        requirement of actual production data to complete the activities, or the requirement of the system being
        used in a live production state.

        Objectives:

                 Schedule activities that are planned for after Go-Live.
                 Ensure issues have been resolved or are planned for resolution before phase or project close.

         STAGE 5                      Post Go-Live Activities

                                      Tyler                                                                                                                                                                      City of Riverton




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Page | 36
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Change Management Leads
                                                                                                       Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable




                                                            Implementation Manager
         C = Consulted




                                                                                                                                                  Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Steering Committee
         I = Informed




                                        Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                          Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Functional Leads
                                                                                     Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                               Client Services
                                                                                                                                   Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          U    )
         Schedule contracted
         activities that are
                                                            A                        R                 C                           C              C                       C                    I                                                          C                 C                  I                           C                                          C
         planned for delivery
         after go-live
         Determine resolution
         plan in preparation for
                                                            A                        R                 C                           C              C                                            I                                                          C                 C                  I                          C
         phase or project close
         out

         Inputs            List of post Go-Live activities

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Acceptance Criteria [only] for
         Deliverables                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Deliverables
                           Updated issues log


        Work package assumptions:

                 System is being used in a live production state.

                  Control Point 5: Production Stage Acceptance
        Acceptance criteria for this Stage includes completion of all criteria listed below:

                 Advancement to the Close stage is not dependent upon Tyler’s receipt of this Stage Acceptance.
                 Converted data is available in production environment.

        Production Stage Acceptance Criteria:

                 All stage deliverables accepted based on criteria previously defined.
                 Go-Live activities defined in the Go-Live action plan completed.
                 Client services support document is provided.

                  Close
        The Close stage signifies full implementation of all products purchased and encompassed in the Phase or
        Project. The City of Riverton transitions to the next cycle of their relationship with Tyler (next Phase of
        implementation or long-term relationship with Tyler Client Services).




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Page | 37
                  Phase Closeout
        This work package represents Phase completion and signals the conclusion of implementation activities for
        the Phase. The Tyler Client Services team will assume ongoing support of the City of Riverton for systems
        implemented in the Phase.

        Objectives:

                 Agreement from Tyler and the City of Riverton teams that activities within this phase are complete.

         STAGE 6                      Phase Close Out

                                      Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Change Management Leads
                                                                                                     Implementation Consultant
         A = Accountable
                                                          Implementation Manager




         C = Consulted

                                                                                                                                                Modification Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Steering Committee
         I = Informed
                                      Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                        Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Functional Leads
                                                                                   Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                             Client Services
                                                                                                                                 Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U    )
         Reconcile project budget
         and status of contract       I                   A                        R                                                                                                                           I                   I                    C
         Deliverables
         Hold post phase review
                                                          A                        R                 C                           C              C                       C                                                                               C                 C                  C                          C                                           C
         meeting
         Release phase-
         dependent Tyler project      A                   R                        I                                                                                                                                                                    I
         resources

         Participants      Tyler                                                                                                                                                                                                         City of Riverton
                           Project Leadership                                                                                                                                                                                            Project Manager
                           Project Manager                                                                                                                                                                                               Project Sponsor(s)
                           Implementation Consultants                                                                                                                                                                                    Functional Leads, Power Users,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Technical Leads
                           Technical Consultants (Conversion, Deployment,
                           Development)
                           Client Services

         Inputs            Contract
                           Statement of Work
                           Project artifacts

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                            Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Final action plan (for outstanding items)
                           Reconciliation Report
                           Post Phase Review




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page | 38
        Work package assumptions:

                 Tyler deliverables for the phase have been completed.

                  Project Closeout
        Completion of this work package signifies final acceptance and formal closing of the Project.

        At this time the City of Riverton may choose to begin working with Client Services to look at continuous
        improvement Projects, building on the completed solution.

        Objectives:

                 Confirm no critical issues remain for the project teams to resolve.
                 Determine proper knowledge transfer to the City of Riverton teams for key processes and subject
                  areas has occurred.
                 Verify all deliverables included in the Agreement are delivered.

         STAGE 6                      Project Close Out

                                      Tyler                                                                                                                                                                    City of Riverton
         RACI MATRIX KEY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Subject Matter Experts (Power
         R = Responsible




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Change Management Leads
                                                                                                     Implementation Consultant




         A = Accountable
                                                          Implementation Manager




         C = Consulted
                                                                                                                                                Modification Services




         I = Informed                                                                                                                                                                                                              Steering Committee
                                      Executive Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Department Heads
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Executive Sponsor
                                                                                                                                                                        Technical Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Functional Leads
                                                                                   Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Technical Leads
                                                                                                                                                                                             Client Services
                                                                                                                                 Data Experts




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        End Users
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U    )
         Conduct post project
                                                          A                        R                 C                           C              C                       C                                                                               C                 C                  C                          C                                           C
         review
         Deliver post project
         report to City of Riverton   I                   A                        R                                                                                                                           I                   I                    C
         and Tyler leadership
         Release Tyler project
                                      A                   R                        I                                                                                                                                                                    I
         resources

         Inputs            Contract
                           Statement of Work

         Outputs /                                                                                                                                                                            Acceptance Criteria [only] for Deliverables
         Deliverables
                           Post Project Report                                                                                                                                                City of Riverton acceptance; Completed report
                                                                                                                                                                                              indicating all project Deliverables and
                                                                                                                                                                                              milestones have been completed


        Work package assumptions:

                 All project implementation activities have been completed and approved.

City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page | 39
                No critical project issues remain that have not been documented and assigned.
                Final project budget has been reconciled and invoiced.
                All Tyler deliverables have been completed.

                 Control Point 6: Close Stage Acceptance
        Acceptance criteria for this Stage includes completion of all criteria listed below.

        Close Stage Deliverables:

                Post Project Report.

        Close Stage Acceptance Criteria:

                Completed report indicating all Project deliverables and milestones have been completed.

                 General Assumptions
        Tyler and the City of Riverton will use this SOW as a guide for managing the implementation of the Tyler
        Project as provided and described in the Agreement. There are a few assumptions which, when
        acknowledged and adhered to, will support a successful implementation. Assumptions related to specific
        work packages are documented throughout the SOW. Included here are general assumptions which should
        be considered throughout the overall implementation process.

                 Project
                Project activities will begin after the Agreement has been fully executed.
                The City of Riverton Project Team will complete their necessary assignments in a mutually agreed
                 upon timeframe to meet the scheduled go-live date, as outlined in the Project Schedule.
                Sessions will be scheduled and conducted at a mutually agreeable time.
                Additional services, software modules and modifications not described in the SOW or Agreement will
                 be considered a change to this Project and will require a Change Request Form as previously
                 referenced in the definition of the Change Control Process.
                Tyler will provide a written agenda and notice of any prerequisites to the City of Riverton project
                 manager(s) ten (10) business days or as otherwise mutually agreed upon time frame prior to any
                 scheduled on-site or remote sessions, as applicable.
                Tyler will provide guidance for configuration and processing options available within the Tyler
                 software. If multiple options are presented by Tyler, the City of Riverton is responsible for making
                 decisions based on the options available.
                Implementation of new software may require changes to existing processes, both business and
                 technical, requiring the City of Riverton to make process changes.
                The City of Riverton is responsible for defining, documenting, and implementing their policies that
                 result from any business process changes.

                 Organizational Change Management
        Unless otherwise contracted by Tyler, City of Riverton is responsible for managing Organizational Change.
        Impacted City of Riverton resources will need consistent coaching and reassurance from their leadership
        team to embrace and accept the changes being imposed by the move to new software. An important part of


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                          Page | 40
        change is ensuring that impacted City of Riverton resources understand the value of the change, and why
        they are being asked to change.

                 Resources and Scheduling
                City of Riverton resources will participate in scheduled activities as assigned in the Project Schedule.
                The City of Riverton team will complete prerequisites prior to applicable scheduled activities. Failure
                 to do so may affect the schedule.
                Tyler and the City of Riverton will provide resources to support the efforts to complete the Project as
                 scheduled and within the constraints of the Project budget.
                Abbreviated timelines and overlapped Phases require sufficient resources to complete all required
                 work as scheduled.
                Changes to the Project Schedule, availability of resources or changes in Scope will be requested
                 through a Change Request. Impacts to the triple constraints (scope, budget, and schedule) will be
                 assessed and documented as part of the change control process.
                The City of Riverton will ensure assigned resources will follow the change control process and possess
                 the required business knowledge to complete their assigned tasks successfully. Should there be a
                 change in resources, the replacement resource should have a comparable level of availability, change
                 control process buy-in, and knowledge.
                The City of Riverton makes timely Project related decisions to achieve scheduled due dates on tasks
                 and prepare for subsequent training sessions. Failure to do so may affect the schedule, as each
                 analysis and implementation session is dependent on the decisions made in prior sessions.
                The City of Riverton will respond to information requests in a comprehensive and timely manner, in
                 accordance with the Project Schedule.
                The City of Riverton will provide adequate meeting space or facilities, including appropriate system
                 connectivity, to the project teams including Tyler team members.
                For on-site visits, Tyler will identify a travel schedule that balances the needs of the project and the
                 employee.

                 Data
                Data will be converted as provided and Tyler will not create data that does not exist.
                The City of Riverton is responsible for the quality of legacy data and for cleaning or scrubbing
                 erroneous legacy data.
                Tyler will work closely with the City of Riverton representatives to identify business rules before
                 writing the conversion. The City of Riverton must confirm that all known data mapping from source to
                 target have been identified and documented before Tyler writes the conversion.
                All in-scope source data is in data extract(s).
                Each legacy system data file submitted for conversion includes all associated records in a single
                 approved file layout.
                The City of Riverton will provide the legacy system data extract in the same format for each iteration
                 unless changes are mutually agreed upon in advance. If not, negative impacts to the schedule, budget
                 and resource availability may occur and/or data in the new system may be incorrect.
                The City of Riverton Project Team is responsible for reviewing the converted data and reporting
                 issues during each iteration, with assistance from Tyler.
                The City of Riverton is responsible for providing or entering test data (e.g., data for training, testing
                 interfaces, etc.)




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                             Page | 41
                 Facilities
                The City of Riverton will provide dedicated space for Tyler staff to work with City of Riverton
                 resources for both on-site and remote sessions. If Phases overlap, City of Riverton will provide
                 multiple training facilities to allow for independent sessions scheduling without conflict.
                The City of Riverton will provide staff with a location to practice what they have learned without
                 distraction.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                            Page | 42
                   Glossary
         Word or Term                              Definition
         Acceptance                                Confirming that the output or deliverable is suitable and
                                                   conforms to the agreed upon criteria.
         Accountable                               The one who ultimately ensures a task or deliverable is
                                                   completed; the one who ensures the prerequisites of the task are
                                                   met and who delegates the work to those responsible. [Also see
                                                   RACI]
         Application                               A computer program designed to perform a group of coordinated
                                                   functions, tasks, or activities for the benefit of the user.
         Application Programming Interface (API)   A defined set of tools/methods to pass data to and received data
                                                   from Tyler software products
         Agreement                                 This executed legal contract that defines the products and
                                                   services to be implemented or performed.
         Business Process                          The practices, policy, procedure, guidelines, or functionality that
                                                   the client uses to complete a specific job function.
         Business Requirements Document            A specification document used to describe Client requirements
                                                   for contracted software modifications.
         Change Request                            A form used as part of the Change Control process whereby
                                                   changes in the scope of work, timeline, resources, and/or budget
                                                   are documented and agreed upon by participating parties.
         Change Management                         Guides how we prepare, equip and support individuals to
                                                   successfully adopt change in order to drive organizational success
                                                   & outcomes
         Code Mapping [where applicable]           An activity that occurs during the data conversion process
                                                   whereby users equate data (field level) values from the old
                                                   system to the values available in the new system. These may be
                                                   one to one or many to one. Example: Old System [Field = eye
                                                   color] [values = BL, Blu, Blue] maps to New Tyler System [Field =
                                                   Eye Color] [value = Blue].
         Consulted                                 Those whose opinions are sought, typically subject matter
                                                   experts, and with whom there is two-way communication. [Also
                                                   see RACI]
         Control Point                             This activity occurs at the end of each stage and serves as a
                                                   formal and intentional opportunity to review stage deliverables
                                                   and required acceptance criteria for the stage have been met.
         Data Mapping [where applicable]           The activity determining and documenting where data from the
                                                   legacy system will be placed in the new system; this typically
                                                   involves prior data analysis to understand how the data is
                                                   currently used in the legacy system and how it will be used in the
                                                   new system.
         Deliverable                               A verifiable document or service produced as part of the Project,
                                                   as defined in the work packages.
         Go-Live                                   The point in time when the Client is using the Tyler software to
                                                   conduct daily operations in Production.
         Informed                                  Those who are kept up-to-date on progress, often only on
                                                   completion of the task or deliverable, and with whom there is
                                                   just one-way communication. [Also see RACI]




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                               Page | 43
         Infrastructure          The composite hardware, network resources and services
                                 required for the existence, operation, and management of the
                                 Tyler software.
         Interface               A connection to and potential exchange of data with an external
                                 system or application. Interfaces may be one way, with data
                                 leaving the Tyler system to another system or data entering Tyler
                                 from another system, or they may be bi-directional with data
                                 both leaving and entering Tyler and another system.
         Integration             A standard exchange or sharing of common data within the Tyler
                                 system or between Tyler applications


         Legacy System           The software from which a client is converting.

         Modification            Custom enhancement of Tyler’s existing software to provide
                                 features or functions to meet individual client requirements
                                 documented within the scope of the Agreement.
         On-site                 Indicates the work location is at one or more of the client’s
                                 physical office or work environments.
         Organizational Change   The process of changing an organization's strategies, processes,
                                 procedures, technologies, and culture, as well as the effect of
                                 such changes on the organization.

         Output                  A product, result or service generated by a process.



         Peripheral devices      An auxiliary device that connects to and works with the computer
                                 in some way. Some examples: scanner, digital camera, printer.


         Phase                   A portion of the Project in which specific set of related
                                 applications are typically implemented. Phases each have an
                                 independent start, Go-Live and closure dates but use the same
                                 Implementation Plans as other Phases of the Project. Phases may
                                 overlap or be sequential and may have different Tyler resources
                                 assigned.
         Project                 The delivery of the software and services per the agreement and
                                 the Statement of Work. A Project may be broken down into
                                 multiple Phases.
         RACI                    A matrix describing the level of participation by various roles in
                                 completing tasks or Deliverables for a Project or process.
                                 Individuals or groups are assigned one and only one of the
                                 following roles for a given task: Responsible (R), Accountable (A),
                                 Consulted (C), or Informed (I).
         Remote                  Indicates the work location is at one or more of Tyler’s physical
                                 offices or work environments.
         Responsible             Those who ensure a task is completed, either by themselves or
                                 delegating to another resource. [Also see RACI]
         Scope                   Products and services that are included in the Agreement.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                Page | 44
         Solution                         The implementation of the contracted software product(s)
                                          resulting in the connected system allowing users to meet Project
                                          goals and gain anticipated efficiencies.
         Stage                            The top-level components of the WBS. Each Stage is repeated for
                                          individual Phases of the Project.
         Standard                         Software functionality that is included in the base software (off-
                                          the-shelf) package; is not customized or modified.
         Statement of Work (SOW)          Document which will provide supporting detail to the Agreement
                                          defining Project-specific activities, services, and Deliverables.
         System                           The collective group of software and hardware that is used by the
                                          organization to conduct business.
         Test Scripts                     The steps or sequence of steps that will be used to validate or
                                          confirm a piece of functionality, configuration, enhancement, or
                                          Use Case Scenario.
         Training Plan                    Document(s) that indicate how and when users of the system will
                                          be trained relevant to their role in the implementation or use of
                                          the system.
         Validation (or to validate)      The process of testing and approving that a specific Deliverable,
                                          process, program, or product is working as expected.
         Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)   A hierarchical representation of a Project or Phase broken down
                                          into smaller, more manageable components.
         Work Package                     A group of related tasks within a project.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                      Page | 45
        Part 4: Appendices
                 Conversion
                 Munis Conversion Summary
                 Accounting COA
                Chart of Accounts segments, objects, character codes, project codes (if applicable), organization
                 codes (if applicable), control accounts budget rollups, fund attributes, due to/due from accounts
                Requires the use of a Tyler provided spreadsheet for design and entry of the data to be converted

                 Accounting - Actuals
                Summary account balances
                Up to 3 years

                 Accounting - Budgets
                Original budget, budget adjustments, revised budget summaries for accounts
                Up to 3 years

                 Accounts Payable Master
                Vendor Master file including names, addresses, SSN/FID, contacts, phone numbers
                Multiple remittance addresses
                Year-to-date 1099 amounts

                 Accounts Payable - Checks
                Check header data including vendor, warrant, check number, check date, overall check amount, GL
                 cash account and clearing information
                Check detail data including related document and invoice numbers for each check
                Up to 5 years

                 Accounts Payable - Invoices
                Invoice header data containing general information for the invoice
                Invoice detail data containing line-specific information for the invoice
                Up to 5 years

                 Inventory Master
                General master data includes item, description, commodity code, purchase vendor and date, date
                 received, GL information, hazard code, etc. Location master includes item, location, bin, various
                 quantities (on-hand, last, committed, standard purchase, re-order), lead time; count, count date, and
                 variance; GL information; plus many accumulator buckets (MTD/YTD/SOY/SOM/LY received /issued



City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                          Page | 46
                 /adjusted /cost /value), etc. FIFO data includes item, location, date, qty-received, unit cost, and
                 quantity on hand.

                 Payroll
                Payroll Employee Master data including data such as name, address, SSN, legacy employee ID, date of
                 birth, hire date, activity status (such as active/inactive), leave/termination code and date, phone(s), e-
                 address, marital status, gender, race, personnel status (such as full-time, part-time, etc.), highest
                 degree, advice-delivery (print/email/both) and check location, plus primary group, job, location, and
                 account information

                 Payroll - Deductions
                Employee Deductions - including employee ID, deduction codes, tax information, and direct deposit
                 information

                 Payroll – Accrual Balances
                Employee Accrual Balances including Vacation, Holiday, and other Leave balances
                Start of year balance, earned to date, used to date

                 Payroll – Check History
                Up to 5 years, additional years must be quoted. We convert amounts for earnings and deductions in
                 employee check history, check number and date.

                 Payroll – Earning/Deduction Hist.
                Up to 5 years, additional years must be quoted. Earning and deduction history broken down my
                 individual codes (earnings and deduction) and amounts per pay period, the detail of these lines, sums
                 the check history in opt 4.

                 Utility Billing
                Account Master data including previous and current customer owner information- address info,
                 phone, fax, SSN number, FID number, account status, parcel number, location street, apartment, city,
                 state, zip, book number, read sequence, account start and end date, EFT bank information

                 Utility Billing –Balance Forward AR
                Account balance forward information converted as total amount due. If the City of Riverton’s
                 business practices require current due and past due bills this can be broken into three balance
                 forward bills (current balance due and up to two past due balance bills). These can be converted to
                 one balance forward charge code or separate balance forward charge codes, and converted to the
                 account/customer if the City of Riverton’s legacy data contains this information.
                If late penalties will be applied in Munis after the conversion, balance forward amounts must be
                 converted by charge code

                 Utility Billing –Consumption History
                History of meter readings, usage, read dates, usage days, bill amounts, bill dates, read codes

City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                              Page | 47
                Up to 5 years

                 Utility Billing –Flat Inventory/Containers
                Inventory for non-metered items tied to recurring service billing – flat rate is tied to inventory
                 item(s)/item type(s) (vs consumption/usage). Trash/recycling containers, dumpsters, roll off
                 containers, light poles, cable/internet equipment.

                 Utility Billing –Services
                Current service codes, service status, type, factor, condo units, bill cycle codes, , current deposits
                 held on account including unpaid deposit amounts, winter usage, current meter(s) associated with
                 service, meter readings( current and previous), meter usage (current and previous) and sales tax
                 information.

                 Utility Billing – Work Orders
                Work Orders data associated with accounts, including meter repairs, checks for leaky meter, reread a
                 meter due to high reading




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                              Page | 48
                 Additional Appendices
                 EnerGov Definitions
                 “Template Business Transactions”
                A pre-defined and pre-configured EnerGov business process from EnerGov’s “Best Management
                 Template”.
                The following modifications to Template Business Transactions are considered within scope:
                     o Any changes to required inspections within the workflow
                     o Any changes to the required plan reviews within the workflow
                     o Adding up to 2 additional actions to the workflow
                     o Configuration of fees, allowing creation of up to 3 new fees to accommodate
                     o Any changes to custom field layouts that are directly related to fees or included reports
                Customization/Configuration of any of these parameters beyond the scope listed above will require
                 the respective business process to be considered a “Unique Business Transaction”, as described
                 below.

        Note: All transaction counts are quantified in the comments of the Investment Summary.

                 “Unique Business Transactions”
                Unique configuration of workflow or business process steps & actions, including output actions
                Unique Fee configuration
                Unique Custom field configuration

                  “Geo-Rules”
                An automation event that references GIS data. Current geo-rule action types are:

         Alert              Displays a pop-up with a custom message to the user, notifying them of certain spatial data (i.e., noise
                            abatement zones; flood zones; etc.).
         Block              Places a block on the case and prevents any progress or updates from occurring on the record (i.e., no
                            status changes can be completed, no fees can be paid, the workflow cannot be managed, etc.)
         Block with         Places a block on the case and prevents any progress or updates from occurring on the record (i.e., no
         Override           status changes can be completed, no fees can be paid, the workflow cannot be managed, etc.) However,
                            the block can be overridden by end-users who have been given the proper securities.
         Fee Date           Populates the CPI vesting date on the record if vesting maps are used by the jurisdiction.
         Field Mapping      A custom field or any field inherent in the EnerGov application can automatically populate with
                            information based on spatial data.
         Required Action    A workflow action can automatically populate in the workflow details for the particular record (i.e., plan,
                            permit, code case, etc.) that requires the action based on certain spatial data related to the case.
         Required Step      A workflow step can automatically populate in the workflow details for the particular record (i.e., plan,
                            permit, code case, etc.) that requires the step based on certain spatial data related to the case.
         Zone Mapping       The zone(s) automatically populate on the “Zones” tab of the record (i.e., plan, permit, code case, etc.).




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                                         Page | 49
                 “Automation Events”
                           “Intelligent Objects (IO)”
                Key components for automatically and reactively triggering geo-rules, computing fees, and generating
                 emails, alerts, and other notifications.

                           “Intelligent Automation Agents (IAA)”
                A tool designed to automate task in a proactive manner by setting values and generating emails and
                 other tasks. On a nightly basis, a Windows service sweeps the EnerGov system looking for IAA tasks
                 that need to be run, then the associated actions are performed. The IAA does not generate alerts or
                 errors. Custom SQL queries are not Tyler deliverables.

                 “EnerGov SDK/API (Toolkits)”
            •         APIs developed by Tyler Technologies for extending the EnerGov Framework and functionality to
                      external agencies and systems. Full documentation is available for each toolkit upon request.

                 Note: The EnerGov toolkits and related documentation are simply tools that allow clients to create
                 applications and integrations. The purchase of a toolkit/API does not imply any development related
                 services from Tyler Technologies. The City of Riverton is responsible for working with their IT staff and
                 VARs to develop any necessary applications and integrations except as otherwise noted in the
                 Investment Summary or for any “in-scope” integrations.

                 Intentionally left blank.




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                             Page | 50
                 Project Timeline
                 ERP Project Timeline
        The Project Timeline establishes a target start and end date for each Phase of the Project. The timeline needs
        to account for resource availability, business goals, size and complexity of the Project, and task duration
        requirements. These will be reviewed and adjusted, if needed, during the Initiate and Plan Stage. Refer to
        the Project Stages section of this SOW for information on work packages associated with each stage of the
        implementation.

        The following dates may be revised based on the date the Agreement is signed and further refined during the
        course of the project. Tyler requires up to forty-five (45) days to move from Agreement signing to the Initiate
        & Plan Stage.




          Phase      Functional        Modules                                       Start Date      Go-Live Date
                     Areas
             1       Financials            • Accounting / General Ledger             May 2022        July 2023
                                           • Accounts Payable
                                           • Budgeting                               (or as          or as defined
                                           • Capital Assets                          defined in      in the Project
                                           • Cash Management                         the Project     Plan and
                                           • Contract Management                     Plan and        mutually
                                           • Inventory                               mutually        agreed upon
                                           • Quatred Inventory Interface             agreed
                                           • Project & Grant Accounting              upon; Phase
                                                                                     1 starts 30-
                                           • Purchasing
                                                                                     45 days
                                           • eProcurement
                                                                                     after
                                           • Accounts Receivable
                                                                                     contract is
                                           • General Billing
                                                                                     fully
                                           • Tyler Cashiering                        executed)
                                           • ACFR Statement Builder
                     System Wide           • Munis Analytics & Reporting with
                                              Executive Insights
                                                o Tyler Reporting Services
                                                o Munis Office


City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                            Page | 51
          Phase      Functional        Modules                                       Start Date     Go-Live Date
                     Areas
                                               o Tyler Hub
                                          • Tyler ReadyForms Processing
                                          • Tyler Content Manager EE
             2       Human Capital        • Payroll w/Employee Self Service          June 2022      July 2023
                     Management           • Human Resources & Talent
                                             Management
                                          • Recruiting
                                          • ExecuTime Time & Attendance – Up
                                             to 250 Employees
                                          • ExecuTime Time & Attendance
                                             Mobile Access
             3       Utility Billing      • Utility Billing CIS including Graphing   July 2022      July 2023
                                             Agent
                                          • UB Interface
                                          • GIS
                                          • Resident Access
                                          • Tyler Cashiering
                                          • Tyler Payments
             4       Asset                • Asset Maintenance                        August 2023    May 2024
                     Management           • Asset Performance
                                          • Tyler 311 / Incident Management


             5       EnerGov              • EnerGov Business Management              Oct 2023       Oct 2024
                                             Suite
                                          • EnerGov Community Development
                                             Suite
                                          • EnerGov View Only License
                                          • EnerGov Citizen Self Service –
                                             Business Management
                                          • EnerGov Citizen Self Service –
                                             Community Development
                                          • EnerGov Report Toolkit
                                          • EnerGov Core Foundation Bundle
                                          • EnerGov e-Reviews
                                          • EnerGov IG Workforce Apps
                                          • Tyler GIS
                                          • EnerGov Advanced Automation
                                             Bundle
                                          • EnerGov Decision Engine
             6       Parks and            • Parks and Recreation                     April 2024     November
                     Recreations                                                                    2024




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                           Page | 52
          Phase      Functional   Modules                                       Start Date     Go-Live Date
                     Areas
             7       Socrata          • Socrata Capital Projects Explorer       Socrata –      Socrata –
                                                                                June 2024      Nov 2024




                 Socrata Project Plan

                                      Socrata Project Plan
                                                                 Week
                                  1     2     3     4     5      6     7    8      9     10     11    12
         Initiate and Plan
         Assess and Define
         Prepare Solution
         Production Readiness
         Production
         Close




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                                                      Page | 53
                 Tyler Content Manager Enterprise Timeline




City of Riverton, UT
Tyler Technologies, Inc.                                     Page | 54
