                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council

From:            Planning Department

Date:            April 21, 2020

Subject:         REZONE, 4185 WEST 12600 SOUTH, PROPOSED REZONE OF
                 APPROXIMATELY 2.5 ACRES FROM PCC TO C-R (COMMERCIAL
                 REGIONAL), JOHN LINTON REPRESENTING HOLIDAY OIL, APPLICANT.


On March 12, 2020, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this rezone
application. At that meeting, the Commission voted to recommend APPROVAL of this
application.  Minutes from that meeting are included below.      The Commission
recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #20-10, rezoning properties located near 4185 West
12600 South from Planned Commercial Center (PCC) to Commercial Regional (C-R), as shown
on the attached Exhibit “A”.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone of approximately two-acres located near 4185 West 12600
South. The property is located at the southwest corner of 12600 South and the new 4150 West
street which is now under construction. The property is currently zoned Planned Commercial
Center (PCC). The current General Plan designation is Regional Commercial/Office. Nearby
zoning includes PCC to the south and east, RM-14 SD to the west and C-R to the north.

The current PCC Zone allows a large variety of commercial uses, including convenience stores
with gas stations. The requested Commercial Regional (C-R) zone also allows for a convenience
stores with gas stations. The two zones are very similar in architectural and site plan standards
and both zones would require a fence to be constructed along the shared line with the housing
development to the west.

The key difference between the two zones is the minimum lot size for a standalone site. The PCC
zone requires 5-acres, and the C-R zone requires 2-acres. A site less than the minimum lot size
could be developed in either zone if it were part of a larger master site plan, in this instance

Report by: TJP
4/14/2020
Holiday Oil would like to begin development sooner than the remaining property. There is also a
significantly larger setback requirement in the PCC Zone, as that zone contemplated much larger
scale buildings and development. The setback itself in the PCC is set at 40 feet, which is the
same as the Commercial Regional Zone, but then in a separate section of the PCC ordinance,
Section 18.100.070(3), it indicates that “No buildings shall be allowed within 100 feet of a
noncompatible zone”. While the intent of this rezone was not to circumvent any setback
requirements, the additional 60 foot separation requirement is, in staff’s perspective, excessive
for this parcel. The Commercial Regional zone is the more appropriate development standard for
a commercial parcel of this size, and for development such as the proposed Holiday Oil.

The Planning Commission, following a public hearing on this application, recommended approval
of the rezone application. Staff concurs with that recommendation. Minutes from that meeting are
included below.



Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1. Public Notice including Area Map.
          2. Current and Proposed Zoning Maps
          3. Planning Commission minutes.




Report by: TJP
4/14/2020
Holiday Oil Rezone
  RR-22                         RR-22
            CURRENT                       PROPOSED
   C-R                           C-R




                 PCC     C-R                    PCC     C-R



                       C-PO                           C-PO
RM-14                          RM-14
        SLR-SP                         SLR-SP
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               3
March 12, 2020

      3.     Applicant complete a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan
             according to Riverton City standards and ordnances.

      4.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
             construction grading on the site.

      5.     The site and structures comply with any and all applicable Riverton City
             standards and ordinances, including the International Building and Fire
             Codes.

      6.     The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

      7.     Roof top mechanical to be screened by parapet walls.

      8.     Signage, including drive-through menu boards, be installed consistent
             with the signage shown on the site plans and meeting the requirements
             of the Sign Ordinance.

      9.     This motion and Site Plan match those shown in the staff report.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Russell. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    REZONE, HOLIDAY OIL IS REQUESTING A REZONE OF ABOUT TWO ACRES
      NEAR 4185 WEST 12600 SOUTH. THE CURRENT ZONING IS PLANNED
      COMMERCIAL CENTER (PCC) AND THE REQUESTED ZONING IS
      COMMERCIAL REGIONAL (C-R).

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated that if approved, the rezone would apply
to other entities as well as Holiday Oil. The Commission would not be approving the rezone,
but would make a recommendation to the City Council for legislative action. He displayed a
map of the property located at 4185 West 12600 South and stated that it is a busy location.
The subject parcel is the frontage piece along 12600 South. A map of the current and
proposed zoning was displayed. The current zoning of the property is Planned Commercial
Center (PCC) and the zoning south of the proposed rezone is Specific Plat for the SLR
Property (SLRSP) allowing for a mix of residential and commercial property. The City
Council recently denied a rezone application request to change the PCC zone to multi-
family. A map of the General Plan was also provided to the Commission.

Mr. Lethridge compared the purposes of the PCC and the Commercial Regional (C-R) Zones
and stated that they are similar. The PCC zone was developed to stimulate economic
development through large scale commercial and office developments served by regional
transportation corridor routes. The C-R Zone was established to stimulate economic
development by allowing for a diversity of land uses in areas that are accessible to regional
transportation facilities. The General Plan supports either zone and the zone purposes are
very similar. The applicant, Holiday Oil, has spurred significant public comment about gas
stations. The C-R and the PCC zones both allow gas stations, but the PCC zone requires
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  4
March 12, 2020

a minimum of five acres and is required to be Master Planned. The subject property is a
just over two acres in size. Staff believes the C-R zone would be the most appropriate.

The applicant spoke to staff about the zone type and staff advised them that the C-R zone
is more appropriate because it allows for stand-alone parcels. There was discussion about
the adjacent parcels to the proposed rezone.

John Wilson, from Holiday Oil, was willing to compromise with those impacted by the project.
He informed the Commission that the previous property owner wanted to develop the
property as residential.

Chair Russell Cannon opened the public hearing.

Kathy Park stated that she lives next to the subject property and was concerned about
increased usage of the adjacent road as a result of the gas station. She and her neighbors
were informed that their homes are in a residential area. Ms. Park was concerned about the
setback standards for a C-R zone and was not in favor of the proposed rezone.

There was no further public comment. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Lefgren asked staff about the fencing requirement. It was reported that when
the development was established, the property was seen as a holding zone and there was
uncertainty about what would be put in place. At that time, the Commission did not require
a fence be installed.

Commissioner Rushton asked about the difference in setbacks between the PCC and a C-R
zones. Mr. Lethbridge stated that there is a 100-foot setback in the PCC zone because it is
geared toward larger scale developments. The C-R zone has a 40-foot setback plus one
foot for every foot in building height. A gas station is possible on the property if it is zoned
PCC but it would depend on the layout. It was mentioned that the Planning Commission
cannot waive the fencing requirement set forth by City Code.

Commissioner Rushton was not aware of any gas stations near residential neighborhoods
and was concerned about the compatibility of a gas station next to homes. It was noted that
there may be better locations in the City for a gas station.

Commissioner James asked what the zoning would be for this area as it develops.
Mr. Lethbridge explained that there is no intent to significantly change the rezone of the
subject property.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Hartley, Mr. Lethbridge sate that a rezone
would not be required if the property was over 10 acres. A comment was made that there
is a conflict with a gas station in a residential area.

Commissioner Russell moved to recommend approval of Application PLZ-20-4002
rezoning properties located near 4185 West 12600 South as shown on the attached
Proposed Zoning Map from Planned Commercial Center (PCC) to Commercial
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               5
March 12, 2020

Regional (C-R). The motion was seconded by Commissioner James. Vote on motion:
Gary Cannon-Aye, Commissioner James-Aye, Commissioner Hartley-Aye,
Commissioner Hansen-Aye, Commissioner Lefgren-Aye, Commissioner Rushton-
Nay, Chair Russell-Aye. The motion passed 6-to-1.

4.    ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
      AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 18 “LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT”, OF THE
      RIVERTON CITY CODE IN CHAPTER 18.10 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated that the matter was being proposed by
staff as a housekeeping matter. Chapter 18.10.010 lists the City’s zoning districts. Over the
years sections were added to the Code but changes were not made to the zoning list. The
amendment will add three zones to the list that are already on the books and eliminate one
that no longer exists.

Chair Russell opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Lefgren moved to recommend approval of PLZ-20-5002 amending
Section 18.10.010 of the Zoning Ordinance be amended as shown on the attached
exhibit. The motion was seconded by Commissioner James. The motion passed with
the unanimous consent of the Commission.

5.    ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
      AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 18 “LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT”, OF THE
      RIVERTON CITY CODE IN CHAPTERS 18.70.070, 18.85.070, 18.100.070 STREET
      FRONTAGE IMPROVEMENTS.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the above item involves correcting text inconsistencies. In
2017, an updated Book of Standards was adopted. It included street sections that showed
straight sidewalks of five feet and park strips of five feet along roads. The City’s zoning
ordinance designates sidewalks as either straight or meandering. It was noted that the City
no longer installs meandering sidewalks. The amendment amends the Code to match the
standard so that a developer can clearly identify the expectation. The proposed change
impacts the Commercial Gateway (C-G), the Commercial-Regional (CR), and the Planned
Commercial Center (PCC) zones by striking “meandering” and replacing it with “straight”.

Chair Russell opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner James moved to recommend approval of PLZ-20-5003 amending
Sections 18.70.070, 18.85.070 and 18.100.070 of the Zoning Ordinance be amended as
shown in the attached exhibit. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Russell.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.
