                                    MEMORANDUM

DATE:         April 18, 2023

TO:           Honorable Mayor and City Council Members

FROM:         Salt Lake County

SUBJECT: Adoption of a Resolution Granting Consent to the County of Salt Lake to
         Form the Salt Lake County Convention and Tourism Assessment Area
         (SLCo CTAA) and Include the City of Riverton in the SLCo CTAA.



RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt Resolution No. 23-28, granting consent to the County of Salt Lake to form the Salt
Lake County Convention and Tourism Assessment Area (“SLCo CTAA”) and include the
City of Riverton in the SLCo CTAA.


RESULT OF RECOMMENDED ACTION:

The recommended action, adoption of the attached resolution granting consent to the
County of Salt Lake to form the SLCo CTAA and include the City of Riverton in the SLCo
CTAA, will enable the County of Salt Lake and Visit Salt Lake to move forward with the
SLCo CTAA formation process and include the City of Riverton in the subsequently
formed SLCo CTAA.


BACKGROUND:

The Salt Lake County Convention and Tourism Assessment Area (“SLCo CTAA”) is a
benefit assessment district proposed to create a revenue source to provide specific
benefits to payors by funding brand development and sales promotional efforts for
assessed hotel businesses. An assessment is levied upon benefitted property, identified
as lodging businesses as defined in the SLCo CTAA Management Plan. The proposed
SLCo CTAA includes all lodging businesses, existing and in the future, located within the
boundaries of the West Valley City, Taylorsville, West Jordan, Township of Kearns,
Sandy, South Jordan, Riverton, Draper, and zip codes 84103, 84101 and 84111 in Salt
Lake City.

Lodging business owners decided to pursue formation of the SLCo CTAA in order to
create a revenue source devoted to marketing Salt Lake County as a tourist, meeting and
event destination. If established, the SLCo CTAA would generate an estimated
$7,500,000 in the initial year of operation for promotion of travel and tourism specific to
Salt Lake.
Tourism Convention and Tourism Assessment Area Districts

Tourism Convention and Tourism Assessment Area Districts (CTAAs) utilize the
efficiencies of private sector operation in the market-based promotion of tourism. These
special assessment districts allow lodging business owners to organize their efforts to
increase tourism. Lodging business owners within the CTAA fund the CTAA, and those
funds are used to provide services that are desired by and benefit the lodging businesses
within the CTAA.

CTAAs are formed pursuant to Convention and Tourism Business Assessment Area Act,
Title 11, Chapter 42b. This law allows for the creation of a CTAAs to raise funds within a
specific geographic area.

Management Plan

The Management Plan (Attachment 1) includes the proposed boundary of the SLCo
CTAA, a service plan and budget and a proposed means of governance. The SLCo CTAA
will include all lodging businesses, existing and in the future, located within the boundaries
West Valley City, Taylorsville, West Jordan, Township of Kearns, Sandy, South Jordan,
Riverton, Draper, and zip codes 84103, 84101 and 84111 in Salt Lake City.

The SLCo CTAA is hereby designated as an assessment area and is formed for a five (5)
year life, beginning July 1, 2023, or as soon as possible thereafter and end five (5) years
from its start date. Once per year beginning on the anniversary of the assessment area
formation there is a 30-day period in which hotel owners paying more than sixty percent
(60%) of the assessment may protest and initiate a County Council hearing on the
termination of the CTAA.

The Utah Third-Party Administrator (in agreement with Salt Lake County) will be
responsible for collecting the assessment on a monthly basis (including any
delinquencies, penalties and interest) from each lodging business. The Third-Party
Administrator (in agreement with Salt Lake County) shall take all reasonable efforts to
collect the assessments from each lodging business. The County shall forward the
assessments collected to the third-party administrator.


FISCAL IMPLICATIONS:

None immediately. Because the SLCo CTAA programs are intended to increase room
night sales for assessed businesses within the SLCo CTAA, there may be an increase in
tax collections.
Salt Lake County shall be paid a fee equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of
assessment collected, or the actual cost, to cover their costs of collection and
administration.

Attachments:
                  1. Resolution Granting Consent to the County of Salt Lake to Form
                     the SLCo CTAA and Include the City of Riverton in the SLCo
                     CTAA
                  2. Adopted Resolution Requesting Consent
                  3. SLCo CTAA Management Plan
