                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            December 15, 2020
Subject:         Text Amendment, Ordinance 20-32, Regulating Locating and Operating
                 Food Trucks in Riverton City and Creating Section 18.230, Mobile Food
                 Vendors, Amendments Proposed By Riverton City


On November 12, 2020, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this text
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission
recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #20-32, regulating locating and operating Food
Trucks in Riverton City and creating Section 18.230, Mobile Food Vendors, as shown in Exhibit
“A”.

Background

Riverton City does not currently have an ordinance specific to the operation of mobile food
vendors, or “food trucks”. The City is seeing an increase in operations of such vendors within the
City, and in response is proposing adoption of language regulating food trucks. This was
presented previously to the Commission, and, as a result of feedback from the Commission, the
draft was revised for clarity and simplicity.

The proposed ordinance is modeled from ordinances of communities similar to Riverton City. The
ordinance allows the operation of food trucks within the City, and establishes criteria for location
and function. Food trucks would not require special permitting or licensing, but would be required
to have a compliant business license.

One of the primary requirements for mobile food vendors would be limitations on such uses to be
temporary. Section 18.230.020 in the proposed text addresses this, with a limitation to the total
number of calendar days a mobile food vendor can operate. Limitations on hours of operation are
also included. As this is a new propose ordinance rather than amendments to existing language,
should the Commission desire further review or amendments beyond what can reasonably be
included in a motion, this item can be tabled to better address concerns.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of the ordinance as presented.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Proposed Riverton City Code Section 18-230:
Report by: TJP
12/8/2020
Exhibit “A”

                                          CHAPTER 18.230
                                       MOBILE FOOD VENDORS

SECTION:
18.230.010: Definitions
18.230.020: License Required, Health Department Permit, Fees, Regulations
18.230.030: Permitted Locations
18.230.040: Prohibited Acts
18.230.050: Compliance with Law

18.230.010: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings set forth in this section:
    1. CITY OWNED PROPERTY: City property shall include all parks, open space, parcels containing
        City operations, buildings, rights of way, and all other such properties. City owned property
        includes all parking lots on these properties.
    2. MOBILE FOOD VENDING: Sale or donation of food or beverages from a mobile food vendor unit.
    3. MOBILE FOOD VENDOR UNIT (UNIT): An enclosed truck, trailer, or similar vehicle mounted unit
        that is:
             a. A licensed motor vehicle or is capable of being moved by a licensed motor vehicle;
             b. Independent with respect to water, wastewater, and power utilities; and
             c. Used for the preparation, sale, or donation of food products and beverages.
The definition of mobile food vendor unit shall not include vending carts or ice cream trucks.

18.230.020: LICENSE REQUIRED, HEALTH DEPARTMENT PERMIT, REGULATIONS:
    1. License Required: It is unlawful for any person to operate, conduct, carry on, or maintain mobile
       food vending without a business license. A mobile food vendor who has a valid business license
       from another political subdivision within the state is not required to obtain a Riverton City
       business license. All mobile food vendors must be able to produce a valid business license,
       health department food truck permit, and evidence of a successful fire safety inspection for each
       mobile unit upon request by a City official.
    2. Health Department Permit and Fire Safety Inspection: Prior to issuance of a Riverton City license,
       vendors must obtain a Salt Lake Valley health department permit. Such permit must remain in
       force during the license period. A vendor must also pass a fire safety inspection performed by the
       City, or show that it has passed a fire safety inspection by another political subdivision within the
       current calendar year.
    3. Business Activity To Be Temporary: All business activity related to mobile food vending shall be
       of a temporary nature subject to the following requirements:
           a. Permitted hours of operation are seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.,
                except as otherwise authorized by the City.
           b. No overnight parking is allowed. An exception may be granted by the Development
                Services Director for an approved multi-day event.
           c. The mobile food vending unit shall not conduct business within City limits for more than
                any part of sixty (60) days per calendar year.

18.230.030: PERMITTED LOCATIONS:
    1. Mobile Food Vending on Private Property: Vendors may only operate on private property with the
       express prior written permission of a person with authority to act on behalf of the property owner.
       The written permission shall include any restrictions such as specific location on the property,
       hours of operation, limitations on employee and/or public sales, etc. The location and use of a site
       may not interfere with the existing parking demand and circulation of the surrounding


Report by: TJP
12/8/2020
        development. The vendor, while operating, shall produce the written permission upon request of
        an authorized City official.
     2. Zoning Restrictions: Mobile food vending is only permitted in Commercial and Light Industrial
        zones.
     3. Limited Permitted Residential Mobile Food Vending: Mobile food vending is also permitted in
        residential zones but only on public and private school property, churches, parks, or other
        government owned property with the written permission of the property owner as required in
        Subsection 1 of this section.
     4. Mobile Food Vending on City Owned Property and in City Rights Of Way: Mobile food vending is
        prohibited on City owned property and City rights of way except as authorized in writing by the
        City.

18.230.040: PROHIBITED ACTS:
    1. Preparation Outside The Mobile Food Vending Unit: Vendors may prepare food and beverages
       outside of the unit (e.g., meat smoking, corn roasting) but such preparation shall not obstruct
       vehicle or pedestrian traffic nor create safety hazards to the public. Vendors, however, shall not
       serve food directly to customers from such outside food preparation area.
    2. Items for Sale: Only food and beverage items, and merchandise branded with the mobile food
       vending logos such as apparel or beverage containers, may be sold from units. The sale or
       distribution of other merchandise, professional or personal services, or alcoholic beverages is
       prohibited.
    3. Obstruction of Traffic: Placement of units or related accessories shall not obstruct or impede
       pedestrian traffic or vehicular traffic, access to and from driveways, or clear vision lines for vehicle
       drivers.
    4. Drive-Through or Drive-In Service Prohibited: Units shall serve pedestrians only. Drive-through or
       drive-in service is prohibited.

18.230.050: COMPLIANCE WITH LAW:
Unit placement, mobile operation and any associated accessories must adhere to federal, state and local
laws, regulations and policies. Local laws, regulations and policies include, but are not limited to, the
City's zoning ordinances, noise ordinances, stormwater regulations, and fire and building codes.




Report by: TJP
12/8/2020
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              7
November 12, 2020

Commissioner James moved to APPROVE Application PLZ-20-2036, “Whitney Short-
Term Rental” to be located at 12931 Sandy Slope Circle with the following conditions:

      1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
             applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances specifically the City’s
             Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190.051) and appliable Building and
             Fire Codes.

      2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City Business License.

      3.     Home Occupation must operate according to the Riverton City Code for
             Short-Term Rentals as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance.

Commissioner Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

Chair Cannon asked if going forward they can require that a similar request comply with
CC&Rs and if so, how that would be enforced. Mr. Prestwich explained that it is a specific
requirement under the short-term rental and could be further addressed with the City
Attorney to determine how to track that internally and convey it to the Commission.

Commissioner Lefgren supported including the CC&Rs. As a Commission Member, he
appreciates knowing whether there are CC&Rs recognizing that it is not the role of the City
to enforce them.

      c.     ZONE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING AMENDMENTS
             TO TITLE 18 REGARDING FOOD TRUCKS.

Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge presented the staff report and provided
the Commission with a variation of South Jordan City’s Food Truck Ordinance. As a result
of feedback received at the last meeting, staff simplified the draft ordinance.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved to recommend APPROVAL of the Zone Text Change
for locating and operating Food Trucks, creating Section 18.230, Mobile Food
Vendors, as shown on the attached documents. Commissioner Russell seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

      d.     ZONE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING AMENDMENTS
             TO ITS ACCESSORY STRUCTURE ORDINANCE ADDRESSING SQUARE
             FOOTAGE REQUIREMENTS.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated that the proposed text change pertains
to the maximum allowed size for accessory structures. There are two standards in the
ordinance that include the following:
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  8
November 12, 2020


       1.     Individual structures can exceed two times the footprint of the house; and

       2.     The total amount of accessory structure square footage cannot exceed 25%
              of the rear yard.

Mr. Lethbridge explained that the ordinance states that the rear yard area is measured from
the closest point of the home to the rear property line. The challenge is that there are several
different interpretations. It is also a very challenging measurement for most people to make.
There is some inequity involved. Staff discussed with the Council how to address that and
proposed that it be a maximum of 10% of the total lot area. It was suggested that the
calculation exclude private alleys.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Russell moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of the Zone Text Change for Accessory Buildings, amending Sections 18,225.030 and
18.225.040, as sown on the attached documents with the added verbiage that a private
lane be excluded from the lot square footage. Commissioner Lefgren seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.     DECISION ITEMS.

       a.     AMENDED SITE PLAN, TONY SKANCHY IS PROPOSING AMENDMENTS
              TO ITS ACCESSORY STRUCTURE ORDINANCE ADDRESSING SQUARE
              FOOTAGE REQUIREMENTS.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that South Hills Dental is located off of 13400 South immediately
west of Bangerter Highway. The applicants are proposing to amend the east side of the site
to enclose the garage area and add a small storage area. A new entrance was to be added
onto the front and the curbing and landscaping along the roadway were to be replaced. The
applicants recalculated the parking needs based on the new space and have sufficient
parking. The same building architecture would continue into the addition. Staff
recommended approval with the conditions set forth in the staff report.

Commissioner Hansen moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the amended
site plan for South Hills Dental, located at 4013 West 13400 South, as shown on the
accompanying plans with the following conditions:

       1.     The building materials shall be compliant with the approved plans.

       2.     Areas designated or described as “storage” shall not be utilized for any
              other purpose.
