                                                                                                                    Quotation No.: CC21034
                                       Riverton City Purchasing
                                       12830 S Redwood Rd * Riverton, Utah 84065
                                       REQUEST FOR QUOTATION
                                              BEFORE REPLYING TO THIS QUOTATION PLEASE READ THE INSTRUCTIONS AND
                                                       GENERAL PROVISIONS PROVIDED WITH THIS DOCUMENT
                                                                              REPLIES MUST BE LEGIBLE
                                                                         Company:                                                 Fed. ID No.

                                                                         Legal Status: Sole Proprietor Non-Profit Corp. Profit Corp. Partnership                Gov.

                                                                         Ordering Address:

                                                                                                                    Contact Person:

Department:                                                              Phone:                                              Fax:

Requisition Number:           156251                                     E-Mail:

Inquiries Sent To: Craig Calvert                                         Remit Address:

E-Mail: ccalvert@rivertoncity.com                                                                                   Price Guaranteed Until - Date:

Phone:       801-208-3175            Date Sent: 3/25/2021                Payment Terms:                          Shipment will be made                      A.R.O.

1.     The item(s) specified on this quotation are produced, mined, grown, manufactured, or performed in Utah?                 Yes           No
       IF No then where produced, etc.:
2.     Quotations must include manufacturer's descriptive literature & F.O.B. origin and destination freight cost or freight allowed or they may be rejected.
3.     Terms of shipment for F.O.B. origin means: Shipper load, carrier count and stow, consignee unload, freight collect!

RETURN QUOTATION TO:                                 Note: Quotations MUST be received by:                  FREIGHT INFORMATION:
 Riverton City                                                                                               Shipping point and zip code:
       Attn: Purchasing
                                                       April 6, 2021
       12830 S Redwood Rd                              THE QUOTATION NUMBER LISTED IN THE                      National Motor Freight Classification:
       Riverton, Utah 84065                            UPPER RIGHT-HAND CORNER OF THIS
                                                       DOCUMENT MUST BE REFERENCED
         Fax: 801-208-3176                                                                                     Shipping Weight:
                                                       WHEN RETURNED.
          Email: ccalvert@rivertoncity.com
     Visit the Riverton City Home Page at: www.rivertoncity.com

                                            Item(s) and Specifications                                               Quantity Unit       Net Unit        Extended
                                                                                                                                          Price            Price


Quote for Refurbishing 57 Street Lights at the following locations:                                                     57        Ea                                       -
 _ 30 lights on11800 south, from approximately 4557 West to Redwood, south side of
       the road only.
     _ 15 lights on 4000 west, from 11800 south to 12600 south.
     _ 12 lights on 2700 west, from 11800 south to 12600 south.

Refurbish, meaning sandblast and paint an existing pole, banner arm and fixture head.
Sandblasting will be done to the SSPC-SP-10 Near White Metal Blast Standards and
then paint using an application of an epoxy primer that has a minimum of 50% solids +/-
2%, and a top coat application of an acrylic-aliphatic urethane. Paint color is to be
black paint, semi gloss #PPG95-8500black.
Paint could be brushed or sprayed. Paint thickness is:
4 to 5 mils DFT on the epoxy primer.
2 to 3 mils DFT on the urethane top coat.
      Total Price, without freight (FOB Origin) $   -                      Total Price, with freight (FOB Destination) $                                               -
Receipt of addendum acknowledgement. Addendum # 1               2    3    4     5    6    .



The undersigned certifies that the vendor is willing and able to furnish the item(s) specified on this quotation!
Vendors Authorized Agent: type or print NAME and TITLE)

Signature:                                                                                                                     Date:
                Please SIGN IN INK or this quote may be rejected, Your signature indicates you have read and agreed to the Instructions & General Provisions.
                                                                      Electronic submittal Implies signature
                          Request for Quotation                                                                Continuation Page



Quotation No.: CC21034                                                 Requisition No.(s): 156251

Date: March 25, 2021                                                  Department: 0

                                    Item(s) and Specifications                                 Quantity Unit   Net Unit   Extended
                                                                                                                Price       Price


Contractor is to refurbish on-location, without removing the pole, or off-location by
removing the pole, taking to contractors booth, refurbishing and reinstalling within 48
hours. Bidders should know that the last time we had a contractor refurbish street lights
the contractor could not remove the poles because the bolts were rusted to the pole.

If bidding to remove and refurbish off-location, a licensed electrician must do the dis-
connect and re-connect. Poles are to be removed such that every other pole is left in
working condition while those removed are being refurbished, when refurbished and re-
installed the ones that were left may be removed and refurbished. The exposed wiring
must be protected from vandalism or exposure to non-qualified individuals. All liability for
vandalism or loss will be the contractor’s responsibility. The contractor is to coordinate
with City Staff on the removal and delivery prior to start.


Three (3) year warranty on paint.

See the attached Contract Terms and Conditions
Request for Quotation Instructions and
General Provisions
"Failure to comply with the following instructions may cause rejection of this quotation"
1.   Administrative Authority:
     The administration of this purchasing process is conducted by the Riverton City Purchasing Agent. No contact of the City Mayor, City Council or any employee in regards to this
     solicitation other than those listed herein.
2.   No Obligation Implied:
     This Request for Quotation implies no obligation on the part of Riverton City.
3    Contract requirements:
     Any contract that may arise from this Request for Quotation is subject to the following Terms and Conditions:
     INDEMNIFICATION - The contractor agrees to protect, indemnify and hold Riverton City, the City Council, the Mayor, and all employees (collectively the "Indemnities") free and
     harmless from and against all losses, claims liens, demands and causes of action of every kind and character arising out of performance of the Work by the contractor or by its
     subcontractors, including the amount of judgment, penalties, interest, court costs and legal fees incurred by the Indemnities or any of them in defense of the same, arising in favor
     of any party, including governmental agencies or bodies, on account of, but not limited to, taxes, claims, liens, debts, personal injuries, death or damages to property (including
     property of Indemnities). The Contractor further agrees to; investigate, handle, respond to, provide defense for and defend any such claim, demand or cause of action at its sole
     expense, and agrees to bear all other costs and expenses related thereto, even if such claim, demand or cause of action is due solely to the fault of Riverton City and, release,
     indemnify and hold the Buyer, its officers, agents and employees harmless from liability of any kind or nature, including the contractor’s use of any copyrighted or uncopyrighted
     composition, secret process, patented or unpatented invention, article or appliance furnished or used in the performance of this contract. Riverton City is a governmental entity
     under the Governmental Immunity Act and waives no defenses, limits of liability or other rights.
     INDEPENDENT CONTRACT - It is understood and agreed by the parties that the contractor is to act in the capacity of an independent contractor and as such will have no
     authorization, express or implied to bind Riverton City to any agreements. Contractor's officers and employees shall not be considered as employees or officers of the City and
     shall not be entitled to any employee benefits as City employees as a result of the execution of this agreement.
     INSURANCE - The contractor agrees to acquire and maintain the appropriate insurance, in the appropriate amounts, for the service(s) provided. This may include, but not limited
     to workers compensation, liability and errors in omission. Proof of insurance will be provided to the City upon request.
     WORKFORCE - The Contractor agrees to register and participate in the Status Verification System to verify the work eligibility status of the Contractor's new employees that are
     employed in the state. The Contractor further agrees to have each contractor or subcontractor who works for or under main contractor, certify by affidavit that the contractor or
     subcontractor has verified through the Status Verification System the employment status of each new employee of the respective contractor or subcontractor.
4.   Riverton City Reservations:
     The right is reserved to cancel this Request for Quotation or to accept or reject any or all quotes, and to waive any informality or technicality in any quote, in the interest of Riverton
     City. Riverton City reserves the right to award multiple contracts to more than one vendor for the same or similar items. Riverton City reserves the right for an option to renew or
     extend any contract that may arise from this Request for Quotation, not to exceed four (4) renewals or extensions. Unless specifically provided for elsewhere in this quote, multiple
     or alternate quotes will not be accepted. The City Mayor and City Council reserves the right to purchase such brands as it desires, irrespective of price. The right is reserved,
     unless supplier countermands, to increase or decrease the quantity of any item(s) as the quoted price. Riverton City reserves the right to cancel any item(s) not delivered after the
     purchase order issued. Riverton City reserves the right to select some or all of the items from any vendor unless an "all or nothing" statement is included in the quote. Riverton
     City does not guarantee to make any purchase from this quote. Estimated quantities are for quoting purposes only and are not to be interpreted as a guarantee to purchase any
     amount.
5.   Failure to Quote:
     Failure to respond may result in the removal of your firm from the vendor's list for the commodity(s) listed. Unless you advise the Purchasing Agent prior to the quote due date that
     you desire to receive future invitations to quote on this commodity. Three consecutive no responses will result in removal
6.   Quote Preparation:
     A.   Fill out this quote form completely filling in all blanks, either in ink or typewritten. All information provided must be legible.
     B.   Errors may be crossed out and corrections made in ink or typewritten (no type covers) adjacent and must be initialed in ink by the person signing the quote.
     C.   Any manufacturer's name, trade names, brand names or catalog number(s) used in this specification are there for the purpose of establishing and describing general
          performance and quality levels. Such references are not intended to be restrictive, and quotes are invited on these and comparable brands or products by any manufacturer.
          All items will be evaluated on an "acceptable substitute" basis unless stated otherwise, Riverton City determining acceptability.
     D.   Price each item separately and extend, unless each item makes up a complete system or a lot price requested. Unit price will govern if there is an error in the extension.
     E.   Furnish descriptive literature for each item quoted. If a substitute is offered make a full written explanation on the quote as to its brand name, model number etc.
     F.   Submit your quote on the documents furnished herein.
     G.   Do not quote on items you cannot supply promptly.
     H.   Provide information on local availability of parts and service for all items quoted and service literature to allow for in-house maintenance and repairs
7.   Quote Submittal:
     A. The quote must be signed in ink and delivered to Purchasing by the "Due Date & Time." Quotes may be delivered via mail, fax or electronic means. Electronic submittal
         implies signature.
     B. Quotes, modifications, or corrections received after the closing time on the "Due Date" will be considered late.
     C.   All purchases are subject to Riverton City purchasing ordinance.
8.   Warranties:
     Contractor warrants that all equipment, and/or materials, and/or labor that is furnished or performed will be free from defects for a minimum period of twelve (12) months from date
     of acceptance. Upon notice from the City of any defect during the applicable warranty period, the affected item, parts or work shall be redone, redesigned, repaired or replaced by
     contractor (at contractor’s expense) at a time acceptable to the City.
9.   Conformance Warranty:
     Vendor warrants the item(s) quoted will conform to the description as quoted, and applicable specifications, and shall be of good and merchantable quality for the known purpose
     for which it is sold.
10. Quote Evaluation:
    Any item quoted is subject to evaluation. Any item which fails to qualify for approval when evaluated shall not be accepted regardless of compliance to quote requirements.
    Quotes will not be accepted from vendors who require assignment of payment to another agent. Note: Riverton City will only pay the vendor named on the order.
    Riverton City will not deal with a factor or make payment to such.
11. Antidiscrimination Act:
    The vendor agrees to abide by the provisions of the Utah Antidiscrimination Act, Title 34 Chapter 35, U.C.A. 1953, as amended, and Title VI and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
    1964 (USC 2000e), which prohibit discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment, or any applicant or recipient of services, on the basis of race, religion, color, or
    national origin: and further agrees to abide by Executive Order No. 11246, as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex: 45 CFR 90 which prohibits
    discrimination on the basis of age, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of handicap. This purchase may be canceled if
    the vendor fails to comply with the provisions of these laws and regulations. Vendor must include this provision in every subcontract or purchase order relating to
    purchases by Riverton City to insure that subcontractors and vendors are bound by this provision.
                             TERMS & CONDITIONS

General

Bidders must meet or exceed all specifications and requirements as set forth in this
document. Contractor must furnish all equipment, materials, labor, tools, transportation,
supplies and incidentals necessary to complete the entire project which includes hauling
off and properly disposing of all debris.

Amendments

Any changes in quantity, specifications, schedules, opening date, corrections, clarifications,
etc. will be in the form of an addendum. Addendums will be in writing, will be distributed to all
bidders by the purchasing department and will become part of this bid. Any attempts to alter
this bid verbally should be ignored.

Conflict with submittals/inconsistencies in conditions

In the event of conflict with submittals from bidders or inconsistencies in bidding documents,
this bid document will take precedence.

Consideration, award and rejection of bids

All bidders must be able to demonstrate that they are responsible, competent contractors with
the resources to complete a project of this magnitude and must be prepared to provide
documented proof of such upon request including references and financial statements. The
contractor's past performance history, organization, equipment and demonstrated ability to
perform and complete their contracts in the manner and within the time limit specified will be
elements along with the dollar amount of the bid which will be considered by the City in the
letting of the contract, if any award is made. The City reserves the right to reject any and all
bids by reason of this paragraph.

Construction dates/deadlines

Contractor is required to get all permits, and complete the project within 60 calendar days
after receipt of the Notice to Proceed.

The anticipated timeframe, or timeline, is as follows:
          City will issue a Notice to Proceed within three (3) business days after the due
           date.
          Contract time (commencement of work date) begins seven (7) calendar days
           after the Notice to Proceed Date.
          Work cannot begin until the following is submitted to the City Purchasing
           Department.
                   All Required Permits
                   Proof of Insurance
                   Certificate of employee verification
Contact

Questions of a technical nature regarding this project or the specifications should be
directed to Craig Calvert at 801-208-3175.

Contract clauses

Any contract arising from this solicitation will include the following:
      A.     The unilateral right of the City to order written changes in the work and/or time
             of performance (change order);
      B.     Liquidated damages as appropriate;
      C.     Specific excusable delays are as follows: if the contractor is delayed by the City
             by change orders.
      D.     The City may terminate the contract for any reason at any time if the contractor
             fails to perform (default) or if it is in the best interest of the City (convenience).

Inspections

Contractor must be prepared, willing and accommodating to on-site inspection of all work, at
any time, by a City representative, during job progress.

Liability

Any damages occurring from the execution of the contract, incidental or otherwise, to City or
private properties must be repaired, at the contractor’s expense, to the owner’s satisfaction.
Indemnification

The contractor agrees to protect, indemnify and hold Riverton City, the City Council, the
Mayor, and all employees (collectively the "Indemnities") free and harmless from and
against all losses, claims liens, demands and causes of action of every kind and
character arising out of performance of the Work by the contractor or by its
subcontractors, including the amount of judgment, penalties, interest, court costs and
legal fees incurred by the Indemnities or any of them in defense of the same, arising in
favor of any party, including governmental agencies or bodies, on account of, but not
limited to, taxes, claims, liens, debts, personal injuries, death or damages to property
(including property of Indemnities).
The Contractor further agrees to; investigate, handle, respond to, provide defense for and
defend any such claim, demand or cause of action at its sole expense, and agrees to
bear all other costs and expenses related thereto, even if such claim, demand or cause of
action is due solely to the fault of Riverton City and, release, indemnify and hold the
Buyer, its officers, agents and employees harmless from liability of any kind or nature,
including the contractor’s use of any copyrighted or uncopyrighted composition, secret
process, patented or unpatented invention, article or appliance furnished or used in the
performance of this contract.
Riverton City is a governmental entity under the Governmental Immunity Act and waives
no defenses, limits of liability or other rights.

Insurance

An ACORD CERTIFICATE must be submitted. The following information must be on the
ACORD.
Description of Operations:

Certificate Holder:
Riverton City, its elected officials, appointed officials, officers, employees and volunteers.
Coverage is for all operation performed by or on behalf of the named insured.
REQUIREMENTS:
Workers Compensation insurance, sufficient to cover all employees in the employ during
the term of the contract including any renewal thereof must be maintained. Coverage
amount should be in the amount required by Utah Workmen’s Compensation Laws.
Liability insurance (general and auto) in the amount of $1,000,000.00 per occurrence with
an aggregate of $2,000,000.00 must be maintained during the term of the contract
including and renewals.

Insurance needs to include Project Name with the location and description of the project,
and the Project Number and Bid Number (if known). Insurance must name as the
certificate holder; Riverton City, its elected officials, appointed officials, officers,
employees and volunteers. Coverage is for all operation performed by or on behalf of the
named insured.

Insurance provided is required to be primary and non-contributory.

Proof of coverage must be provided before work can begin, and the Contractor agrees to
provide proof of insurance upon demand by the City throughout the terms of the contract.
The insurance must have a 30 day written cancelation notice. If any of the required
insurance coverage is cancelled or lapse, the City may at the City's discretion, obtain
substitute coverage at reasonable rates. The City may deduct the cost of such coverage,
plus 10% for administrative charges, from any monies that are owing to contractor.

Riverton City will assume no liabilities for the contractor including any of the contractor’s
representatives, employees or properties. The contractor agrees to, at all times, protect,
indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City and city employees from any and all claims.
Contractor shall, at all times, keep the work area in a neat, clean, safe and secure condition
to avoid the risk of loss, theft, vandalism or sabotage.

Any damages occurring during the completion of this project, incidental or otherwise, to city
or private properties must be repaired, at the contractor’s expense, to the owner’s
satisfaction.

Independent Contract

It is understood and agreed by the parties that the contractor is to act in the capacity of an
independent contractor and as such will have no authorization, express or implied to bind
Riverton City to any agreements. Contractor's officers and employees shall not be
considered as employees or officers of the City and shall not be entitled to any employee
benefits as City employees as a result of the execution of this agreement.

Workforce

The Contractor agrees to register and participate in the status verification system to verify
the work eligibility status of the Contractor's new employees that are employed in the
state. The Contractor further agrees to have each contractor or subcontractor who works
for or under main contractor, certify by affidavit that the contractor or subcontractor has
verified through the status verification system the employment status of each new
employee of the respective contractor or subcontractor.

Laws/codes

Contractor must abide by all federal, state and local laws including, but not limited to,
employment laws such as the Americans with Disabilities Act and meet or exceed all
applicable building codes and Utah state energy code requirements.

OSHA Requirements

Contractor agrees to comply with all OSHA requirements that may be associated with this
project. For any OSAH violation that occurs with this project the Contractor agrees to pay
any fine accessed to the City and the City will not accept any bids from the contractor on
any project for the next year.

Permits

The Contractor is responsible to obtain the following Riverton City Permits. Permits can
be viewed at the following web sites:
      1. Encroachment Permit (bonding is a requirement of this permit)
         http://www.rivertoncity.com/departments/public_works/engineering/index.php
      2. Building Permit (only if removing poles)
         http://www.rivertoncity.com/departments/building_department/index.php

The Contractor may also be required to obtain permits from other agencies that may be
necessary to complete the project.

Licensing

Bidders must meet all current licensing requirements of the City, County and State of
Utah to do the type of work required under this bid including the proper license
classifications with a sufficient monetary limit as established and issued by the division of
occupational and professional licensing, state department of commerce. Licensing must
be current and valid at the date of bid opening. Please provide license number with
response.

Liquidated damages

Time is the essence of the Contract Documents. Contractor agrees that the City will
suffer damage or financial loss if the project is not completed on the agreed completion
time or within any time extensions that are allowed by written pre approval. The
Contractor and the City agree that proof of the exact amount of any such damage or loss
is difficult to determine. Accordingly, instead of requiring any such proof of damage or
specific financial loss or late completion, the Contractor agrees to pay the following sums
to the City as liquidated damages and not as a penalty.

     1.   Late Time Completion:
          Five hundred dollars and no cents ($500.00) for each day or part thereof that
          expires after the completion time until the work is accepted as substantially
          complete.

     2.   Interruption of Public Services:
          No interruption of public services shall be caused by the Contractor, its agents
           or employees, without the engineer’s prior written approval. The City and
           Contractor agree that in the event the City suffers damages from such
           interruption, the amount of liquidated damages stipulated below shall not be
           deemed to be a limitation upon the Cities right to recover the full amount of such
           damages. One thousand dollars and no cents ($1,000.00) for each day or part
           thereof of any utility interruption caused by the Contractor without prior written
           authorization.

The City shall be entitled to deduct and retain liquidated damages out of any money
which may be due or become due the Contractor. To the extent that the liquidated
damages exceed any amounts that would otherwise be due the Contractor, the
Contractor shall be liable for such amounts and shall return such excess to the City.

Notice to proceed

Notice to proceed will be in the form of a purchase order from the city purchasing
department. Do not proceed without a purchase order.

Payment

Payment for this project will be upon completion and acceptance only.

Riverton City reserves the right to make payments with a credit card. If the prices change
because of a credit card payment bidder must provide two prices, a price for payment by
credit card and a price for payment by check.

Subcontractors

Riverton City reserves the right to approve or reject any subcontractor. The City will not
provide drawings, bidder’s lists, etc. to subcontractors or suppliers.

Terms and conditions

In the event of breach, the prevailing party will be entitled to attorneys fees, regardless of
whether the issue is brought to court.
Riverton City requests assignment of rights to recover damages from any antitrust
violations.

Warranty

Contractor warrants all equipment, materials, and labor furnished or performed will be
free from defects for a period of twelve (12) months from date of acceptance. Upon
notice from the City of any defect during the applicable warranty period, the affected item,
parts or work shall be redone, redesigned, repaired or replaced by contractor (at
contractor’s expense). Warranty repairs must be completed within 10 calendar days after
notice or a negotiated time that is acceptable to the City. All liquidated damages specified
for original work will apply on warranty repairs.
