                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            October 5, 2021
Subject:         Ordinance 21-26, Amending Section 18.150.120, Monument Signs, Allowing for
                 incorporation of a monument sign in masonry fencing, amendments proposed by
                 Riverton City


On September 23, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this proposed
text amendment. Minutes from that meeting will be available once transcribed. The Planning
Commission voted to recommend approval, with the following suggested motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance #21-26, amending Section 18.150.120(8), allowing signage
incorporated into certain types of fencing to qualify as monument signs, as shown on Exhibit “A”.

Background

This is a proposed amendment to Riverton City Sign Ordinance, specifically to the section regulating
monument signage. The amendment is proposed by Riverton City. A request was made by a business in
the City who had enclosed their site in a precast masonry fence to replace the existing monument, now
enclosed within the fencing, with a sign attached to one of the fence panels. Riverton City Code section
18.150.040 defines a monument sign as a “freestanding” sign, and there is not specific language in the
code that can be interpreted to allow for signage attached to or cast into a fence. In reviewing potential
amendments to sign ordinance, the Council indicated their willingness to consider allowing use of a fence
panel in a precast fence as a monument sign, and instructed staff to prepare an amendment for
consideration.

The proposed language amends in the ordinance section 18.150.120, Exceptions and Qualifications for
Specific Sign Types, an allowance for utilization of a masonry fence panel for signage, where a monument
sign would otherwise be allowed. The fence cannot exceed height that would be allowed for a monument
sign, and must be architecturally consistent with the site and buildings. The amendment also specifies that
only a single sign/panel can be utilized, and is the only allowed monument sign for the property. Such
signage must also be removed prior to any other monument signage being permitted on the property.

The Planning Commission following their review of this amendment, voted to recommend approval. Staff
concurs with that recommendation.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
   1. Draft text amendment to Section 18.150.120




Report by: TJP
9/30/2021
