                      WATER SERVICE INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT

        This Agreement is made and entered into this _____ day of April, 2020 (the “Effective Date”),
by and between Riverton City, a municipal corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Utah (“Riverton”), and the City of South Jordan, a municipal corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the state of Utah (“South Jordan”), individually a “Party,” and collectively,
the “Parties.”

                                             RECITALS

        A.      Riverton is the owner and operator of waterworks providing intake and distribution
of canal grade water for irrigation purposes to Riverton residents.

        B.       South Jordan similarly owns waterworks providing intake and distribution of canal
water for irrigation purposes to South Jordan residents.

         C.    South Jordan has identified a limited regional area within its municipal territory which
currently does not have access to canal grade water for irrigation purposes. This regional area is
described in Exhibit “A” attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference (the “Area”). South
Jordan has determined that provision of canal grade water service to the Area requires a significant
capital investment which will take a number of years to achieve (the “Project”).

        D.     South Jordan has determined that as it works to improve irrigation water facilities
servicing the Area, South Jordan may temporarily provide water service for irrigation to its residents
by connecting to the existing waterworks owned by Riverton.

        E.     South Jordan and Riverton are each authorized to enter into this Inter local Agreement
to provide water service, pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act of Utah, Utah Code Ann. §§ 11-
13-101 et seq.

        F.     South Jordan desires to obtain a supply of irrigation water from Riverton in order to
provide adequate supplies of irrigation water to South Jordan residents located within the Area
described in Exhibit “A.”

                                           AGREEMENT

        Subject to the terms and provisions described in this Agreement, Riverton and South Jordan
agree to the following:

       1.      Terms.

               a.     South Jordan shall maintain at its sole cost and expense, existing supply water
       interconnection facilities consisting of a meter station and distribution lines (hereinafter the
       “Interconnection Facilities”) that is connected to Riverton’s existing distribution line located
       at approximately 11600 South 1300 West, South Jordan, Utah..

              b.       The distribution line shall feature sufficient capacity to enable it to supply the
       requirements of the South Jordan system during peak demand periods, but shall not exceed
       the capacity of 500 gallons per minute.


                                                   1
               c.      South Jordan agrees to purchase from Riverton in accordance with terms of
       this Agreement, irrigation water service through a metered connection authorized by Riverton.
       South Jordan shall receive water from Riverton waterworks and distribute for resale such water
       service to residents within the Area.

              d.     Riverton agrees to own, maintain, and operate its water works to the point of
       connection and supply South Jordan with irrigation water for use within the Area.

         2.     Quantity of Water to Be Furnished. Riverton agrees to supply to South Jordan for use
by its customers, such quantities of irrigation water not in excess of the amount described in paragraph
1 and Exhibit “B,” attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Irrigation water service shall
commence no later than April 15th each calendar year, and shall be discontinued by October 15th each
calendar year. Riverton's obligation under this Agreement shall not exceed on any given day the
maximum daily amount of irrigation water as shown in Exhibit “B.” Exhibit “B” may be modified
periodically, but only by mutual written agreement of Riverton and South Jordan. The maximum day
amount specified in Exhibit “B” is 720,000 gallons per day. The maximum hourly rate of withdrawal
of water from the Interconnection Facilities shall not exceed 30,000 gallons per hour.

        3.      Facilities, Equipment and Operation. At its sole expense, South Jordan will maintain
existing transmission mains, valves, meters and appurtenances necessary to transmit irrigation water
from Riverton's waterworks facility to South Jordan residents within the Area. South Jordan shall
maintain a mutually acceptable meter for measuring the supply of water from Riverton to South
Jordan. The master meter will be the primary device used for the registration and billing of quantities
of water supplied under this Agreement. The facilities to be maintained by South Jordan are more
particularly described in attached Exhibit “C,” incorporated herein by reference. South Jordan may,
from time to time, expand its system as necessary to deliver the irrigation water to be furnished under
this Agreement and any extension of it; provided, however that any resulting increases in quantity of
water to be furnished must be approved in writing by Riverton, in compliance with Paragraph 10.

              a. Riverton reserves the right to inspect the Interconnection Facilities and monitor
       meter data of the flow of water supply to South Jordan in its sole discretion.

               b. South Jordan will, at its own expense, operate, maintain, replace and improve South
       Jordan system and the Interconnection Facilities as it deems necessary for Riverton to deliver
       Irrigation water to South Jordan during the term of this Agreement, including any extension
       of the same.

         4.      Delivery. Riverton shall provide irrigation water to South Jordan for use in the Area.
Riverton agrees to deliver water in accordance with Exhibit “B” to South Jordan's transmission main
for supplying the Area with irrigation water service. South Jordan acknowledges and agrees that supply
of irrigation water service by Riverton is subject to water availability from existing shares and rights
held by Riverton, featuring points of diversion which reasonably can be used to supply water service
to the Area. In the event Riverton’s water supply is sufficient to serve Riverton residents, but
insufficient to simultaneously serve South Jordan, Riverton may restrict water service to South Jordan
before restricting water service to Riverton residents.

                      a. If for any reason unrelated to availability, Riverton is unable to supply in full
               the quantities of water to be furnished to South Jordan, Riverton shall use due


                                                   2
               diligence to operate Riverton system and the Interconnection Facilities during any
               such occurrence to provide Irrigation water to South Jordan as soon as practicable.

                       b. In the event of interruption of irrigation service due to damage to the
               delivery system, Riverton shall as promptly as possible, take such actions, including
               expediting repairs or adjustments as are necessary to restore irrigation water service to
               South Jordan. South Jordan or Riverton shall each notify the other as promptly as
               practicable of all emergencies, failures, malfunctions or other conditions in their
               respective system which may directly or indirectly affect the other Party's system.

        5.       Water Quality. Riverton shall supply South Jordan with water of a quality
commensurate with that furnished to Riverton customers within Riverton city limits. Each of the
Parties shall immediately notify the other of an emergency or condition which may affect the quality
of water in either Party's system. South Jordan understands and agrees that water canal companies
periodically treat their respective canal systems with chemical agents, which eradicate canal systems of
algal growth and nuisance vegetation. South Jordan understands and agrees to accept the canal water
supplied by Riverton even though such canal water may be affected by chemical treatments conducted
by canal companies.

         6.     Reporting Requirements. Riverton shall submit a monthly bill and report showing the
amount of irrigation water delivered under this Agreement for the previous month. At the end of each
fiscal calendar year during the term of this Agreement, and not later than August 1st of each year,
Riverton shall submit to South Jordan a written copy of the prevailing water rate applicable to South
Jordan.

         7.     Rates, Discounts and Billing. The charges for water furnished to South Jordan under
this Agreement shall be at the rate described in the study which South Jordan participated in and
attached as Exhibit “C” incorporated herein by reference. Future rate adjustments may be established
by passage of resolution of the Riverton City Council based on a similar study and analysis as the
current rate. With the exception of fees for late payments, water service rates shall not be subject to
any additional subcharge, fee or tax. Riverton shall bill South Jordan at monthly intervals for all
irrigation water furnished to South Jordan under this Agreement. South Jordan shall pay the water
bill within 30 days. Fees and penalties for late payments shall be governed by ordinance of Riverton
City. For the purpose of assessing penalties for late payment, South Jordan shall be deemed to hold
the status of an ordinary water user under the Riverton Municipal Code. When it is determined that
a measuring device has operated incorrectly, an estimate of the amount of water furnished through
the faulty device shall be prepared by Riverton for the purpose of billing South Jordan. The estimate
shall be based upon the best available information, including summation of other available meter
readings, the amount used by South Jordan during the same month of the prior year, exclusive of
incorrect reading, and calibration of the master meter.

       8.      Standard Terms and Conditions.

               a.       This Agreement shall have a term of one (1) year commencing on the date of
       this Agreement, and shall automatically renew on the anniversary date of this agreement unless
       notice is given by either party at least 6 months in advance of the renewal date of its intent not
       to renew this agreement.



                                                   3
                b.    No officer, official or agent of Riverton or South Jordan has the power to
       amend, modify or alter this Agreement or waive any of its conditions as to bind Riverton or
       South Jordan by making any promise or representation not contained herein. All amendments
       to this Agreement must be approved by resolution of the Riverton City Council and the South
       Jordan City Council.

              c.       This Agreement shall not be assigned or transferred, by either Party without
       the express written consent of the other Party.

               d.     This Agreement will be subject to cancellation in the event a court of
       competent jurisdiction restricts or limits, directly or indirectly, any of Riverton's or South
       Jordan's rights to obtain, provide, sell, contract for, or distribute irrigation water as
       contemplated by this Agreement.

               e.      In any case by reason of "Force Majeure" Riverton or South Jordan is rendered
       unable wholly or in part to carry out its obligations under the Agreement; notice and full
       particulars of such "Force Majeure" are to be given in writing within a reasonable period of
       time by the Party unable to carry out its obligations to the other party. The obligation of the
       Party given such notice, so far as it is affected by "Force Majeure," shall be suspended during
       the continuance of the inability claimed, but no longer. The term "Force Majeure" as used in
       the Agreement shall mean acts of God and any event or effect that cannot reasonably be
       anticipated or controlled. Both Riverton and South Jordan may exercise their rights under this
       "Force Majeure" section with regards to all provisions of this Agreement.

        9.       Governmental Immunity. Riverton and South Jordan are governmental entities and
subject to the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Ann. §§63-30d-1, et seq. (“Act”).
Subject to the provision of the Act, each of the Parties agree to indemnify and hold harmless the other
Party, its agents, officers and employees from and against any and all actions, claims, lawsuits,
proceedings, liability damages, losses and expenses (including attorney’s fees and costs) arising out of
or resulting from the performance of this Agreement to the extent the same are caused by any
negligent or wrongful act or omission of that Party , its officers, agents and employees. Nothing in
this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any rights, statutory limitations on liability, or defenses
applicable to the Parties under the Act.

        In any claim against Riverton which alleges an act or omission was due to negligence of South
Jordan or its employees, agents, or contractors, South Jordan shall, at its own expense, appear, defend
and pay all charges of attorneys and all costs and other expenses arising from or incurred in connection
with attorney fees, and if any judgment shall be rendered against Riverton in any such action, South
Jordan shall, at its own expense, satisfy and discharge the same. South Jordan expressly understands
and agrees that any performance bond or insurance protection required by this Agreement, or
otherwise provided by South Jordan or by its contactors, shall in no way limit the responsibility to
indemnify and defend Riverton as provided.

        10.      Service of Notice. All notices or communications provided for in this Agreement shall
be in writing and shall be delivered to Riverton or South Jordan either in person or by United States
mail, via registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to Riverton as follows
until and unless other addresses are specified by notice given in accordance with this agreement.



                                                   4
       Riverton City
       12830 S. 1700 W.
       Riverton, UT 84065

or addressed to South Jordan as follows:

       South Jordan City
       1600 W. Towne Center Dr.
       South Jordan, Utah

                        [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]




                                           5
“RIVERTON CITY"           Approved as to Form and Legality



Mayor                     Attorney for the City

ATTEST:



City Recorder


“SOUTH JORDAN CITY"       Approved as to Form and Legality



Mayor                     Attorney for the City

ATTEST:



City Recorder




                      6
EXHIBIT “A”


THE AREA
   EXHIBIT “B”

WATER CALCULATION
EXHIBIT “C”

WATER RATES
