                                       City Council Meeting Agenda
                                             January 20, 2026



PRESENTER:             Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director


ITEM:


Ordinance No. 26-01 - Utah Collective SD Rezone - Proposed Addition of Specific Development
Designations Stipulating Setbacks and Architectural Requirements for Agricultural Buildings on Property
Located at 2673 West 11800 South. Applicant, Benjamin and Sarah Milar - Jason Lethbridge, Development
Services Director
On November 13, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider this
application. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted to recommend
approval, with the following recommended motion (additional text added in clarification):
I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 26-01, the “Utah Collective Rezone”, adding the following
Specific Development Designations to the current RR-22 Zone on property located at 2673 West 11800
South:
1. Animal shelters may be built with wood siding and metal roofs, as described and as shown in the
attached exhibits.
2. Chicken coops may be built from natural wood siding and chicken wire enclosure for a chicken run, as
described and as shown in the attached exhibits.
3. A greenhouse may be built with aluminum and glass/polycarbonate clear panels.
4. A greenhouse may be built with a 10 ft setback from property line adjacent to 2700 West.


SUMMARY:
The applicants, Benjamin Milar, received approval for and constructed a private school on property located
at 2673 West 11800 South. That property is zoned RR-22, and a private school is permitted in that zone
under the section regulating “Churches, religious, cultural, public, and quasi-public uses”, which are
permitted in the zone. Following completion and occupancy of the project, the applicant sought approval for
construction of agricultural buildings on the property, including a greenhouse and animal enclosures. The
applicant was informed that development of any additional structures or uses on the property required both
conformance with the zoning requirements and approval of an amended Site Plan by the Planning
Commission. The applicable section of the RR-22 zone, 18.25.130(8), regulates “Building Architecture” for
all quasi public buildings, and does not distinguish between primary and accessory structures. The
applicant was informed that accessory structures for the project must meet the same architectural standards
as the primary building. In response, the applicant submitted this application requesting by “SD” designation
allowance for alternative materials as described.


FISCAL IMPACT:         N/A
FUNDING SOURCE: N/A
