                                      RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
                                       ORDINANCE NO. 23-05

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 18.235, WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS, OF THE
 RIVERTON CITY CODE UPDATING AND AMENDING EXISTING TEXT, AMENDMENTS
                      PROPOSED BY RIVERTON CITY

       WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing to consider said amendment; and

      WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the public
amend the Riverton City Code Section 18.235, Water Efficiency Standards, as described in Exhibit “A”.

       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Riverton City, Utah as follows:

       Section 1. The Riverton City Code Section 18.235, Water Efficiency Standards, shall be, and
       hereby is, amended as shown in Exhibit “A.”

       Section 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon passage, and shall supersede any language to the
       contrary in other sections of Riverton City Code .

      PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 21st day of February,
2023 by the following vote:

                                            YES    NO
       Councilmember Tish Buroker           ____   ____
       Councilmember Tawnee McCay           ____   ____
       Councilmember Troy McDougal          ____   ____
       Councilmember Andy Pierucci          ____   ____
       Councilmember Claude Wells           ____   ____


                                            RIVERTON CITY

       [SEAL]

ATTEST:                                     __________________________________
                                            Trent Staggs, Mayor


__________________________________
Jamie Larsen, Recorder
Exhibit “A”
Sections:
18.235.010    Purpose.
18.235.020    Applicability.
18.235.030    Indoor fixture requirements.
18.235.040    Outdoor landscaping standards.
18.235.050    Landscaping requirements.

    *Code reviser’s note: Ord. 22-18 sets out this chapter in full. Exh. A, Section 3 of Ord. 22-18 was codified
    as part of RCC 18.05.030, Definition of terms.

18.235.010 Purpose.
The purpose of these water efficiency standards is to conserve the public’s water resources by establishing water conservation
recommendations for outdoor landscaping and indoor plumbing and fixtures. [Ord. 22-18 § 1 (Exh. A § 1).]

18.235.020 Applicability.
The standards contained herein shall be recommended and encouraged for all developer/contractor installed residential,
commercial, institutional, and industrial construction, as applicable. The outdoor landscaping standards shall also be
recommended and encouraged for new landscaping construction installed by homeowners. [Ord. 22-18 § 1 (Exh. A § 2).]

18.235.030 Indoor fixture requirements.
It is recommended and encouraged, but not mandated, that all new and future construction and future additions, remodels, or
refurbishments install plumbing fixtures that have the WaterSense label, including: lavatory faucets, shower heads, sink faucets,
water closets (tank and flushometer-valve toilets), and urinals, to the extent Utah law allows municipalities or local districts to
require these fixtures. [Ord. 22-18 § 1 (Exh. A § 4).]

18.235.040 Outdoor landscaping standards.
It is recommended and encouraged, but not mandated, that all new and rehabilitated landscaping for public agency projects,
private development projects, developer-installed landscaping in multifamily and single-family residential projects within the
front and side yards, and homeowner-provided landscape improvements within the front and side yards of single- and two-family
dwellings comply with the landscaping standards set forth in RCC 18.235.050 to the extent possible. It is recommended and
encouraged, but not mandated, that rear yard landscape improvements of single- and two-family dwellings comply with these
same standards. [Ord. 22-18 § 1 (Exh. A § 5).]

18.235.050 Landscaping requirements.
(1) All irrigation should be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the highest water efficiency. Drip irrigation or
bubblers should be used except in lawn areas. Drip irrigation systems should be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-
end assembly, and any other appropriate components.

(2) Each irrigation valve should irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope and soil conditions, and plant materials with similar
watering needs. Lawn and planting beds should be irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers
should be placed on separate irrigation valves.

(3) Landscaped areas should be provided with a WaterSense labeled smart irrigation controller which automatically adjusts the
frequency and/or duration of irrigation events in response to changing weather conditions. All controllers should be equipped
with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.

(4) At least three to four inches of mulch, permeable to air and water, should be used in planting beds to control weeds and
improve the appearance of the landscaping.

(5) At maturity, landscapes are recommended to have enough plant material (perennials and shrubs) to create at least 50 percent
living plant cover at maturity at the ground plane, not including tree canopies.

(6) Lawn should be minimized in park strips, paths, or on slopes greater than 25 percent or 4:1 grade. To the extent reasonably
practicable, lawn should be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes, etc.).


                                                                  2
(7) In residential landscapes, the landscaping should adhere to the following Localscapes® requirements and should be properly
labeled on the landscape plan submitted to the city for review:

    (a) If size permits, the landscaped areas of the front yard and back yard should include a designed central open shape created
    by using lawn, hardscape, groundcover, gravel, or mulch.

    (b) Gathering areas should be constructed of hardscape and placed outside of the central open shape. In a landscape without
    lawn, gathering areas may function as the central open shape.

    (c) Activity zones should be located outside of the central open shape and should be surfaced with materials other than
    lawn.

    (d) Paths should be made with materials that do not include lawn, such as hardscape, mulch, or other groundcover.

    (e) Lawn areas should not exceed the greater of 250 square feet, or 35 percent of the total landscaped area.

    (f) Small residential lots, where the total landscaped area is less than 250 square feet, and where the front yard dimensions
    cannot accommodate the minimum eight-feet-wide lawn area requirement of the landscaping requirements in subsection (6)
    of this section, are exempt from the eight-foot minimum width lawn area requirement.

(8) In commercial, industrial, institutional, and multifamily development common area landscapes, lawn areas should not exceed
20 percent of the total landscaped area, outside of active recreation areas. [Ord. 22-18 § 1 (Exh. A § 6).]


                                                     Chapter 18.235
                                             WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
 Sections:
Sections:
18.235.010   Purpose.
18.235.020   Definitions.
18.235.030   Applicability of Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance.
18.235.040   Landscape Design Standards
18.235.050   Irrigation Design Standards.
18.235.060   Landscapes in New Single-family Residential Developments.
18.235.070   Landscapes in Commercial and Multi-Family Developments
18.235.080   Documentation for Commercial and Multi-Family Projects.
18.235.090   Plan Review, Construction Inspection, and Post-Construction Monitoring

18.235.010 Purpose.
 The purpose of these water efficiency standards is to conserve the public’s water resources by establishing water conservation
 standards for outdoor landscaping and irrigation.

18.235.020 Definitions.
 The following definitions shall apply to this ordinance:

     Active Recreation Area: An area that is dedicated to active play where turf grass may be used as the playing surface.
     Examples of active recreation areas include sports fields, play areas, and other similar uses.

     Bubbler: An irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding” the planted area, usually measured in gallons
     per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or short stream pattern.
     Check Valve: A device used in sprinkler heads or pipe to prevent water from draining out of the pipe through gravity flow.
     Controller: A device used in irrigation systems to automatically control when and how long sprinklers or drip systems
     operate.
                                                                3
Drip Emitter: Drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root zone of the plant, usually measured in gallons
per hour.
Grading Plan: The Grading Plan shows all finish grades, spot elevations, drainage as necessary and existing and new
contours with the developed landscaped area.

Ground Cover: Material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over the ground that can be maintained at a
height not more than twelve (12) inches.

Hardscape: Patios, decks and paths. Does not include driveways and sidewalks.
Irrigation Plan: The irrigation plan shows the components of the irrigation system with water meter size, backflow
prevention, precipitation rates, flow rate and operating pressure for each irrigation circuit, and identification of all irrigation
equipment.

Landscape Architect: A person who holds a professional license to practice landscape architecture in the state of Utah.
Per State Code, licensed landscape architects, licensed architects, licensed land surveyors, and licensed engineers can
professionally stamp plans that fall under the practice of landscape architecture. This includes commercial landscape and
irrigation plans. Each municipality has the authority to require that only a licensed landscape architect can stamp plans
that fall under the practice of landscape architecture.

Landscape Designer: A person who may or may not hold professional certificates for landscape design/architecture and
cannot legally create commercial landscape plans. Landscape Designers generally focus on residential design and
horticultural needs of home landscapes.

Landscape Documentation Package: The preparation of a graphic and written criteria, specifications, and detailed plans to
arrange and modify the effects of natural features such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks and other
features to comply with the provisions of this ordinance. The Landscape Documentation Package shall include a project
data sheet, a Site Plan, a Planting Plan, an Irrigation Plan, Construction Details, and a Grading Plan.

Landscape Zone: A portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water needs, areas with similar
microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind, etc.) and soil conditions, and areas that will be similarly irrigated. A landscape
zone can be served by one irrigation valve, or a set of valves with the same schedule.

Landscaping: Any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers, annuals, perennials,
ornamental grass, or seeding; natural features such as rock, stone, or bark chips; and structural features, including but not
limited to, fountains, reflecting pools, outdoor art work, screen walls, fences or benches.

Localscapes®: A locally adaptable and environmentally sustainable urban landscape style that requires less irrigation than
traditional Utah landscapes (see www.Localscapes.com).
Mulch: Any material such as rock, bark, wood chips or other materials left loose and applied to the soil.
Park Strip: A typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb and sidewalk.
Planting Plan: A Planting Plan shall clearly and accurately identify the type, size, and locations for new and existing trees,
shrubs, planting beds, ground covers, turf areas, driveways, sidewalks, hardscape features, and fences.
Pop-up Spray Head: A sprinkler head that sprays water through a nozzle in a fixed pattern with no rotation.

Precipitation Rate: The depth of water applied to a given area, usually measured in inches per hour.

Pressure Regulating Valve: A valve installed in an irrigation mainline that reduces a higher supply pressure at the inlet
down to a regulated lower pressure at the outlet.

Pressure Compensating: A drip irrigation system that compensates for fluctuating water pressure by only allowing a fixed
volume of water through drip emitters.
Rotor Spray Head: A sprinkler head that distributes water through a nozzle by the rotation of a gear or mechanical rotor.

                                                              4
   Runoff: Irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it is applied, and which flows onto other
   areas.

   Spray Sprinkler: An irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.
   Stream Sprinkler: An irrigation head that projects water through a gear rotor in single or multiple streams.

   Turf: A surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots.
   Water-Conserving Plant: A plant that can generally survive with available rainfall once established although
   supplemental irrigation may be needed or desirable during spring and summer months.


18.235.030      Applicability of Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance

   The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to all new and rehabilitated landscaping for public agency projects,
   commercial development projects, required developer-installed landscaping in multi-family and in front and side yards of
   single-family residential projects, and homeowner provided landscape improvements on new construction within the front
   and side yards of single family dwellings. These standards are highly encouraged where landscaping is being installed or
   renovated on existing residential homes.

18.235.040      Landscape Design Standards

       A. Plant Selection. Plants shall be well-suited to the microclimate and soil conditions at the project site. Both native
             and locally-adapted plants are acceptable. Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped together as much as
             possible.

       B. Mulch. After completion of all planting, all irrigated non-turf areas shall be covered with a minimum 3 to 4-inch
             layer of mulch to retain water, inhibit weed growth, and moderate soil temperature. Non-porous material shall
             not be placed under the mulch.

       C. Soil Preparation. Soil preparation will be suitable to provide healthy growing conditions for the plants and to
             encourage water infiltration and penetration. Soil preparation shall include scarifying the soil to a minimum
             depth of six (6) inches and amending the soil with organic material as per specific recommendations of the
             Landscape Designer/Landscape Architect based on the soil conditions. In some cases, soil testing will provide
             additional recommendations for amending the soil.

       D. Tree Selection. Tree species shall be selected based on growth characteristics and site conditions, including
             available space, overhead clearance, soil conditions, exposure, and desired color and appearance. Trees shall be
             selected as follows:

                 1. Broad canopy trees shall be selected where shade or screening of tall objects is desired;
                 2. Low-growing trees shall be selected for spaces under utility wires;
                 3. Select trees from which lower branches can be trimmed to maintain a healthy growth habit where
                      visual clearance and natural surveillance is a concern;

                 4. Narrow or columnar trees shall be selected for small spaces, or where awnings or other building
                      features limit growth, or where greater visibility is desired between buildings and the street for natural
                      surveillance;

                 5. Street trees shall be planted within existing and proposed park strips, and in sidewalk tree wells on
                      streets without park strips. Tree placement shall provide canopy cover (shade) and avoid conflicts with
                      existing trees, retaining walls, above and below ground utilities, lighting, and other obstructions; and

              6. Trees less than a two-inch caliper shall be double-staked until the trees mature to a two-inch caliper.
       E. Areas with slopes greater than 25 percent, or 4:1 grade, shall be landscaped with deep- rooting, water-conserving
                                                               5
            plants, that do not include turf.


       F. Turf or sod may not be used in park strips or landscaped islands less than eight (8) feet wide.

       G. Certain special purpose landscape areas (e.g. stormwater management areas, etc) may receive exceptions from
            slope and other limitations of this title, as approved on a case-by-case basis by the City.

18.235.050 Irrigation Design Standards

       A. Pressure Regulation. A pressure regulating valve shall be installed and maintained by required by Riverton
            City’s Standards and Specifications, or by specific requirement of the Public Works Department . The pressure-
            regulating valve shall be located between the meter and the first point of water use, or first point of division in
            the pipe, and shall be set at the manufacturer's recommended pressure for the sprinklers.

       B. Irrigation Controller. Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense labeled smart irrigation controller
            which automatically adjusts the frequency and/or duration of irrigation events in response to changing weather
            conditions. All controllers shall be equipped with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.
       C. Each valve should irrigate a landscape with similar site, slope and soil conditions and plant materials with
            similar watering needs. Turf and non-turf areas should be irrigated on separate valves. Drip emitters and
            sprinklers should be placed on separate valves.

       D. Drip emitters or a bubbler shall be provided for each tree. Bubblers for trees shall be placed on a separate valve
            unless specifically exempted by the City due to the limited number of trees on the project site.

       E. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used to irrigate plants in non-turf areas.
       F. Sprinklers shall have matched precipitation rates with each control valve circuit.
       G. Sprinkler heads shall be attached to rigid lateral lines with flexible material (swing joints) or other approved
            materials designed to reduce potential for breakage.

       H. Check valves shall be required where elevation differences cause low-head drainage. Pressure compensating
            valves and sprinklers shall be required where a significant variation in water pressure occurs within the
            irrigation system due to elevation differences.

       I.   Filters and end flush valves shall be provided as necessary for drip irrigation lines.

       J.   Unless otherwise determined by the City, valves with spray or stream sprinklers shall be scheduled to operate
            between 6 p.m. and 10 a.m. to reduce water loss from wind and evaporation.

18.235.060 Landscapes in New Single-family Residential Developments

       A. No more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the front and side yard landscaped area in new single family
            residential construction may be lawn.

       B. Homebuilders and/or developers subdividing lots and/or constructing new single-family residential homes are
            encouraged to offer a water-efficient landscaping option to prospective home buyers, such as the Localscapes
            design style.

       C. Homebuilders and/or developers who construct model homes for a designated subdivision are encouraged to
            have at least one model home with water-efficient landscaping, such as the Localscapes design style

       D. Model homes shall have landscaping and irrigation plans approved by the City Planning Department prior to
            issuance of building permits.

                                                               6
        E. Model homes shall include an informational brochure on water-efficient landscaping or Localscapes.
             Localscapes brochures can be obtained from the City or from other relevant agencies.

18.235.070 Landscapes in Commercial and Multi-Family Developments

        A. Commercial and multi-family landscapes shall meet the Landscape Design Standards and Irrigation Design
            Standards of this ordinance, and the turf area shall not exceed 20% of the total landscaped area, outside of
            active recreation areas. In multi-family development, this is measured as 20% of common area landscaping.
18.235.080 Documentation for Commercial and Multi-Family Projects

    Landscape Documentation Package. A copy of a Landscape Documentation Package shall be submitted to and approved
    by the City prior to the issue of any permit. A copy of the approved Landscape Documentation Package shall be provided
    to the property owner or site manager and to the local retail water purveyor. The Landscape Documentation Package shall
    be prepared by a professional landscape architect (PLA) and shall consist of the following items:

        A. Project Data Sheet. The Project Data Sheet shall contain the following:
                 1. Project name and address;
                 2. Applicant or applicant agent's name, address, phone number, and email address;
                 3. Landscape architect's name, address, phone number, and email address; and
                 4. Landscape contractor's name, address, phone number and email address, if available at this time.
        B. Planting Plan. A detailed planting plan shall be drawn at a scale that clearly identifies the following:
                 1. Location of all plant materials, a legend with botanical and common names, and size of plant materials;
                 2. Property lines and street names;
                 3. Existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, utilities, paved areas and other site improvements;
                 4. Existing trees and plant materials to be removed or retained;
                 5. Scale: graphic and written;
                 6. Date of design;
                 7. Designation of landscape zones, and
                 8. Details and specifications for tree staking, soil preparation, and other planting work.
        C. Irrigation Plan. A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the planting plan and shall
             contain the following information:

                 1. Layout of the irrigation system and a legend summarizing the type and size of all components of the
                      system, including manufacturer name and model numbers;

                 2. Static water pressure in pounds per square inch (psi) at the point of connection to the public water
                      supply;

                 3. Flow rate in gallons per minute and design operating pressure in psi for each valve and precipitation
                      rate in inches per hour for each valve with sprinklers, and

                 4. Installation details for irrigation components.
        D. Grading Plan. A Grading Plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the Planting Plan and shall contain the

                                                               7
            following information:

                 1. Property lines and street names, existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, utilities, paved areas
                     and other site improvements, and

                 2. Existing and finished contour lines and spot elevations as necessary for the proposed site
                     improvements, as well as drainage.

18.235.090. Plan Review, Construction Inspection, and Post-Construction Monitoring.

        A. As part of the Building Permit approval process, a copy of the Landscape Documentation Package shall be
            submitted to the City for review and approval before construction begins.

        B. All installers and designers shall meet state and local license, insurance, and bonding requirements, and be
            able to show proof of such.

        C. During construction, site inspection of the landscaping may be performed by the City.
        D. Following construction and prior to issuing the approval for occupancy, an inspection shall be scheduled with
            the City to verify compliance with the approved landscape plans.

        E. The City reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time before, during or after the irrigation system and
            landscape installation, and to require corrective measures if requirements of this ordinance are not satisfied.




                                                              8
                                     CERTIFICATE OF POSTING


       I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby

Certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 23-05 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on

the 21st day of February 2023 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following

locations:

       1. City Hall

       2. Riverton Library

       3. Riverton City Website


Dated this 21st day of February, 2023.



                                           _______________________________
                                           Jamie Larsen, Recorder
       [S E A L]




                                                      9
