    RIVERTON CITY COUNCIL
RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE

Updated March 2, 2021June 18, 2024
                                             Riverton City Council
                                         Rules of Order and Procedure


                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART 1   COUNCIL ASPIRATIONAL VALUES AND GOALS -------------------------------------------------- 1
  1.1    Council Values Governing Its Decision-Making Process -------------------------------------------------- 1
  1.2    City Council Goals -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2
PART 2   COUNCIL INTERNAL POLICIES --------------------------------------------------------------------- 32
  2.1    Meals/Refreshments at City Council Meetings ------------------------------------------------------------ 32
  2.2    Council Office Travel ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
  2.3    Filling a Vacancy on the City Council -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
  2.4    Mayor as Presiding Officer; Election of Mayor Pro-Tem ------------------------------------------------- 5
  2.5    Legislative Action Items ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 65
  2.6    Participation on City Boards and Commissions ------------------------------------------------------------- 6
  2.7    City or Council Photography for Official Purposes and Newsletters----------------------------------- 6
  2.8    News Media --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 6
  2.9    Working on Issues Outside Own Council District ----------------------------------------------------------- 7
  2.10   Transition for Council Office Following Municipal Elections-------------------------------------------- 87
  2.11   Council Retreat ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 8
  2.12   Filing Fees ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 8
  2.13   Service of Legal Documents ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 8
PART 3   COUNCIL MEETINGS --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 98
  3.1    Attendance of Members ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 98
  3.2    City Council Meeting Schedule --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9
  3.3    Council Meeting Agendas and Paperwork ------------------------------------------------------------------- 9
  3.4    Minutes of Meetings --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 10
  3.5    Resolutions of Support, Appreciation, or Recognition ----------------------------------------------- 1211
  3.6    Public Hearings and Notification ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 12
  3.7    Closed Meetings --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 14
  3.8    Electronic Council Meetings ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 15
  3.9    Citizen Comments at Council Meetings---------------------------------------------------------------------- 16
  3.10   Communication Devices ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1716
  3.11   Council Subcommittees ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 17
  3.12   Removal of Disorderly Persons -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 17


                                                              i
                                             Riverton City Council
                                         Rules of Order and Procedure

  3.13   General Procedures ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 17
  3.14   Voting Procedures -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1918
  3.15   Appeal of Land-use Decisions to the City Council ----------------------------------------------------- 2019
PART 4   INTERACTION WITH CITY STAFF/OFFICIALS --------------------------------------------------- 21
  4.1    Interaction with City Staff/Officials --------------------------------------------------------------------------- 21




                                                           ii
                                     Riverton City Council
                                 Rules of Order and Procedure


            PART 1          COUNCIL ASPIRATIONAL VALUES AND GOALS
1.1   Council Values Governing Its Decision-Making Process

      1. Leadership Values. The City Council declares that it is committed to employing core values
         in the City’s decision-making process and operational activities. It is intended that these
         values will be reflected in actions among Council Members and City staff and include the
         following:

         a. City Team Leadership. Each Council will be committed to the success of the City and to
            providing responsible, efficient, and cost-effective governance and services to the public.
            They will do so by cooperatively making informed choices in establishing the municipal
            budget and in setting public policy.

         b. Mutual Respect. Individuals in the City’s Legislative and Administrative branches of
            government will care about and have respect for each other, as persons. Notwithstanding
            differences of opinion, each City official is expected to be cognizant of and have respect
            for staff and citizens. All shall be treated with courtesy. Thus, each Council Member and
            the City Manager are expected to:

              i. refrain from making threats or uttering disparaging personal remarks in public
                 meetings, to the news media or at other times, even when provoked;

              ii. show courtesy by addressing problems directly with the Council Member involved,
                  before taking the matter to the Council as-a-whole or uttering public statements;

             iii. seriously consider each comment or concern that comes before the Council and
                  follow the Council Rules, Policy and Procedures, in good faith, so they can be
                  addressed in a fair, open and timely fashion;

             iv. retain and use a sense of humor appropriately, but not over use it;

              v. focus attention on what can be accomplished and constructively work to build the
                 community and individuals;

             vi. respect the City’s Administrative procedures and chains-of-command, including
                 addressing problems related to Administrative Department heads and staff directly
                 with the City Manager or (alternatively) to the Council as-a-whole, when appropriate;
                 and

            vii. work to resolve differences between individual Council Members and others with tact
                 and sensitivity, recognizing the value of individuals and treating each person with
                 respect.

         c. Responsive Governance. The Council believes that the best government is one that is
            close to the people, is responsive to their needs, and acknowledges that it is accountable
            to the electorate.


                                                 1
                                       Riverton City Council
                                   Rules of Order and Procedure

          d. Innovation, Ethics and Efficiency. The City’s objective at all times is to take courageous
             and pro-active action to: a) stay on the leading edge of technology and management
             theory; and b) be a well-run, efficiently managed and an innovative City, where policies
             and decisions are undertaken in a fiscally sound and ethically responsible manner.

1.2   City Council Goals

      1. Goals. City government aspires to be efficient and accessible to the public it serves. It seeks
         to do so, among other means, by employing the following principles:

          a. Accessible Government. The City’s goal is to promote government accessibility to all
             citizens, in all its proceedings, by openness and transparent public processing, including:
             a) encouraging interaction with elected officials and Administrative staff in a logical and
             effective manner; b) promoting quantifiable analysis and accounting of government
             performance for public view; c) promoting electronic communications to enhance the
             public’s ability to participate in and observe government processes; and d) encouraging
             citizens and interested parties to exercise their right to petition their government for
             redress or change, and providing appropriate avenues for them to be heard and have
             their views considered, impartially.

          b. Effective Government. The City’s goal is to be innovative in achieving effectiveness and
             efficiency in all its operations by: a) making it a City standard to be pro-active in
             identifying and resolving problems; b) rendering reason-based decisions and employing
             professional advice, citizen input, and using verifiable information; and c) funding and
             encouraging active participation in training for staff, elected and appointed officials.

          c. Cooperative Government. The City’s goal is to be a State leader and advance good
             government and public service through cooperative interactions with others, including:
             a) providing leadership and service in regional, state, and national programs, councils,
             organizations and meetings; b) fostering positive relationships between the City,
             business, government and other service oriented entities, whose function is to improve
             economic conditions and the quality of life in the City; and c) receiving and soliciting
             citizen participation in the City’s decision-making and advisory committee process.

          d. Responsible Government. The City’s goal is to provide necessary public services, but be
             frugal with public resources. The City will seek to be supportive and pro-active with City
             boards and committees and to function with the highest ethical standards by: a) being
             fiscally conservative in the expenditure of taxpayer resources; b) acting and requiring the
             highest standards of ethical conduct, at all levels of City government; c) establishing high
             standards of accountability and employee performance, which includes exposing and
             correcting unproductive or inappropriate activities at all levels of City government; and d)
             meeting with the Planning Commission, General Plan Committee, Board of Adjustment
             and other City committees to discuss the Council’s vision and purpose, together with
             receiving reports regarding the needs, accomplishments and goals of that reporting body.




                                                  2
                                       Riverton City Council
                                   Rules of Order and Procedure

                       PART 2           COUNCIL INTERNAL POLICIES
2.1   Meals/Refreshments at City Council Meetings

      1. Meals and Refreshments. The Council may provide meals and/or refreshments for the City
         Council Members and staff during Council meetings, City Council Retreats, annual City
         Council/Manager Strategic Planning sessions, meetings with dignitaries for City business
         related purposes, or similar events. To do so, the Mayor shall request the City Manager to
         make appropriate arrangements, provided that appropriated funds are available for that
         purpose.

      2. Funding. Refreshments will be purchased only for the functions listed above, and will be
         purchased within appropriated funding levels, in the most cost effective manner possible.

      3. Staff. As a courtesy, food at Council meetings may also be provided for Department Heads,
         the City Attorney and the Police Department security. If additional food is available, others
         may be invited by the Council to receive food/refreshments.

      4. Use of Surplus. If the City Manager wishes to have the Council authorize extra food for others
         in an emergency or for special occasions, he/she may make said request of the City Council
         provided that the expenditure has a bona fide public purpose and appropriated funds are
         available.

2.2   Council Office Travel

      1. Conferences/Conventions. Any or all Council Members may travel to conferences and
         conventions related to City business.

      2. Budgeting. The Council currently budgets for travel by asking each Council Member, at the
         beginning of the through ordinary budget formulation process, which conferences/activities
         he/she desires to attendare desired by the Council to attend. Based on this information, the
         City Manager will prepare cost estimates for inclusion in the Council Office travel budget.

      3. Council Approval Required; City Manager Duties. When a Council Member expresses
         interest in traveling to a conference, convention or seminar which is not taken into
         consideration during budget formulation, the City Manager will notify the council of a
         proposal by a Council Member to travel. If the Council is opposed to the proposed travel or
         if appropriated funds are not available, the trip will not be scheduled. If approved, the City
         Manager will arrange for the travel.

2.3   Filling a Vacancy on the City Council

      1. Duty to Fill Vacancy within 30 Days. Whenever a vacancy occurs on the Council, either
         through death, resignation or removal (either during a term or as a Council Member or Mayor-
         elect), the vacancy will be filled by the Council within thirty (30) days, to hold the position
         until the next municipal election as provided in State law. It is also the policy of the City
         Council to make known the procedures outlined below to all those interested in applying for
         appointment to the Council.


                                                  3
                                   Riverton City Council
                               Rules of Order and Procedure

2. Minimum Requirements for Appointment. All applicants must meet the requirements for
   qualification for public office, as specified in State law and City ordinance. All applications will
   be screened by the City Manager, prior to submittal of their name to the City Council to assure
   each applicant meets the minimum legal qualifications, employing the following criteria:

    a. Each applicant must have resided in the City for at least twelve (12) consecutive months
       and be a current resident of the voting District in which the vacancy occurred;

    b. Each must have no other compensated employment with Riverton City. If they do have
       other compensated employment with the City, the applicant must sign a commitment to
       resign the employment upon appointment to the City Council; and

    c. Each must be a registered voter and an elector in Riverton City.

3. Public Notice. Within one week of the vacancy, the City Manager shall give public notice of
   the vacancy by causing such notice to be published at least one time in The Salt Lake Tribune
   and the Deseret Newsaccording to Utah Code. Such notice shall: (i) identify the date, time
   and place of the meeting where the vacancy will be filled; (ii) request resumes and/or letters
   of interest and qualification (hereafter referred to as “application”) from residents of the
   affected voting District, who are interested in being appointed to fill the vacancy; (iii) state
   the date of the vacancy and identify the last day the applications must be submitted; and (iv)
   state that applications must be submitted to the City Manager. Such notice shall be given at
   least 14 calendar days before the Council meets to make its final selection of the person to fill
   the vacant Council seat. The deadline for receipt of applications will be no less than 14
   calendar days following the vacancy.

4. Applicants. The City Council requests the following be submitted to the City Manager, as the
   minimum information necessary in an application:

    a.   Name
    b.   Street address
    c.   Phone number(s)
    d.   Occupation (optional - for press information)
    e.   Declaration of meeting the minimum qualifications for appointment

5. Distribution to Council. On the first working day following the application deadline, copies
   of the qualifying applications, along with all related letters of recommendation received to
   that date, will be distributed to the Council Members.

6. Meetings. During the week following distribution of applicant information, Council Members
   will hold one or more informal meetings to become better acquainted with the applicants and
   to allow applicants to ask questions pertaining to the role of Council Member. As these
   meetings are for informal exposure only, no formal interviewing will take place at these
   meetings. However, all such meetings will be noticed and held in compliance with the Utah
   Open and Public Meetings Act.

7. Executive Session. Immediately following the informational meetings, the Council will meet
   in Executive Session to consider the field of applicants. During this meeting, Council Members
   may candidly discuss the candidates, sharing their personal reactions and feelings about any
   aspect, positive or negative, of the candidates’ qualifications and ability to perform. The
                                             4
                                         Riverton City Council
                                     Rules of Order and Procedure

          discussion shall continue until Council Members have had an opportunity to voice anything
          they wish to say about any candidate.

      8. Open Meeting Interview. The City Manager, on behalf of the City Council, shall notify the
         applicants of the date, time and place of their interview, which will occur in an open meeting.
         However, if the Council desires to question any applicant regarding his or her character,
         professional competence, or physical or mental health, the Council may, in its discretion, ask
         such questions of the applicant in an Executive Session, held consistent with the Utah Open
         and Public Meetings Act.

      9. Formal Vote on Selection. The City Manager, on behalf of the City Council, shall inform the
         applicants of the date, time, and place the vote will take place for final selection of the person
         to fill the vacant Council seat. This selection date may be the same day as the open interview
         date, above provided. This election date shall be during a regular Council meeting or in a
         special Council meeting called in order to meet the thirty-day deadline imposed by State law.
         The Council decision shall be by a majority vote and the selected person shall be sworn in by
         the City Recorder. If no applicant receives a majority vote of the Council at this meeting, the
         vacancy shall be filled by lot between the two (2) applicants receiving the highest number of
         votes, which action shall be taken in an open meeting and in the presence of the Council.

      10. Public Information. All written information and letters of recommendations concerning
          applicants for appointment will be made available to the press and the general public, in an
          attempt to facilitate public input prior to the final selection. In addition, the City Manager will
          prepare a list of applicant names, phone numbers, and occupations following the deadline for
          filing applications and a list of the finalists will be made available, as soon as possible after
          their selection.

      11. Council Member Conflict and Voting Disqualification. A sitting Member of the Council may
          not participate in any part of the process established by this section to fill a vacancy, if that
          Member is being considered for appointment to fill the vacancy.

2.4   Mayor as Presiding Officer; Election of Mayor Pro-Tem

      1. Presiding Officers. The Mayor shall be the presiding officer and chairperson of the Riverton
         City Council and of all meetings thereof. In the Mayor’s absence, the Mayor Pro-Tem shall
         preside. In the absence of the Mayor and the Mayor Pro-Tem, the City Council Member with
         the longest tenure on the Council shall preside; however, if more than one Council Member
         has identical amount of tenure, those Council Members will flip a coin to determine who will
         be the temporary presiding official.

      2. Election of Mayor Pro-Tem. At its first regular meeting in January of each calendar year, City
         Council Members shall nominate and, by majority vote, select one of its members to serve as
         Mayor Pro-Tem. The Mayor Pro-Tem shall serve from the election until a successor is duly
         elected. In the event of a vacancy in the position of Mayor Pro-Tem, the vacancy will be filled
         by an election as above prescribed.

      3. Eligibility. All Council Members who will be in office during the subject year shall be eligible
         to serve as the Mayor Pro-Tem.


                                                    5
                                       Riverton City Council
                                   Rules of Order and Procedure

2.5   Legislative Action Items

      1. Council Initiatives. Council Members may initiate legislation, rather than simply reacting to
         proposals from the Administration. This policy includes land-use and zoning issues; however,
         these matters usually require review or a factual development and recommendation by the
         Administration and the Planning Commission.

      2. Process of Development and Full Council Vote Required. An individual Council Member who
         wishes to initiate legislation is encouraged to talk to the City Manager about the goal of the
         contemplated legislation and how the Council Member would like to achieve that objective.
         The City Manager will see that an appropriate Legislative Action Item (such as, an ordinance
         or resolution) is prepared and put on the Council’s agenda, as expeditiously as possible.

2.6   Participation on City Boards and Commissions

      1. Service Limited to Ex-Officio Capacity. Council Members shall not serve on any City
         appointed boards or commissions, except in an ex-officio capacity.

      2. Non-City Committee Service. Council Members are free to participate on non-City appointed
         boards; however, where those organizations interact with City government on a policy,
         procedural, or financial basis, the following conditions apply:

          a. Each Council Member shall submit, in writing, to the City Council a list of all non-City
             appointed boards on which that Council Member sits, where the organization interacts
             on any policy, procedural, or financial basis with Riverton City.

          b. When issues arise before the Council that directly or indirectly affect an organization on
             whose board a Council Member sits, that Council Member will declare a conflict-of-
             interest and abstain from both the debate and the vote.

2.7   City or Council Photography for Official Purposes and Newsletters

      1. Official Photograph. An official photograph shall be taken when a Council Member is elected
         to office. The photographs are for official use and are to be used throughout the Council
         Member’s term of office.

      2. Private Use. If a Council Member wishes to use his/her photograph(s) for personal purposes,
         he/she must purchase any such photo(s) directly from the photographer. The City Council
         may not order or purchase any photographs on behalf of a Council Member for that Council
         Members’ personal use.

2.8   News Media

      1. Mayor as Spokesperson. The Mayor or a designee of the Mayor is the official spokesperson
         for the City Council on items the Council has voted upon. As such, the Mayor is responsible
         for representing the Council to the news media. The Mayor and individual Council Members
         may meet with media representatives or media editorial boards. When doing so, they shall
         make it clear that the opinions presented are their own; indicate they are speaking on their
         own behalf, rather than on behalf of the full Council; and be careful to say “I” versus “we”
         when stating opinions. Press releases are a common form of communication with the media.
                                                 6
                                       Riverton City Council
                                   Rules of Order and Procedure


      2. City Manager Prepare Press Releases. It is appropriate for City Manager, on behalf of Council,
         to prepare press releases:

          a. Quoting the Mayor on issues relating to the City Council, as a group, or providing general
             information regarding public hearings or other public meetings that the City Council will
             hold.

          b. Announcing, for a Council Member, a public event/meeting occurring in a Council
             Member’s district. It is also appropriate for the Council Member to either announce such
             a district event or request the City Manager to do so.

          c. Announcing for a Council Member who serves on a special committee (such as the
             National League of Cities and Towns), the committee’s findings or activities. However,
             the press release cannot be contrary to the official position held by the City Council, as a
             group, and cannot represent the entire City Council.

      3. Inappropriate Political Releases. It is not appropriate for individual Council Members to
         prepare official Council press releases regarding a Council Member’s campaign, events
         relating to a campaign, or for any reelection purposes.

      4. Press Contacts. When a representative of the media contacts the Council to request an
         interview with the Mayor or a Council Member on an issue that relates to the entire Council,
         the following will apply:

          a. The interview request shall be directed to the Mayor.

          b. If the Mayor is not available for the interview, the request shall be referred to the Mayor
             Pro-Tem.

          c. If the Mayor or the Mayor Pro-Tem is not available, the request is then referred to the
             next senior Council Member, as designated in B.7, above.

          d. If a Council Member, other than the Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem, agrees to the media’s
             interview request, that Council Member must clarify that he/she is not speaking on behalf
             of the entire Council; rather, the opinions/views stated are only that of the individual
             Council Member.

2.9   Working on Issues Outside Own Council District

      Due to Council Members’ roles as elected officials, constituents commonly contact Council
      Members to request their assistance in resolving issues and problems. There are instances when
      constituents contact a Council Member for assistance on an issue outside the Council Member’s
      council district or because the Council Member is elected “at large.” When a Council Member
      (either elected from a district or those elected “at large”) is asked to assist a constituent on an
      issue outside that Council Member’s district, the Council Member may refer the constituent to
      the Council Member who represents the constituent or choose to assist the constituent and give
      a courtesy notification to the Council Member in whose district the issue relates, as soon as is
      reasonably possible.

                                                  7
                                         Riverton City Council
                                     Rules of Order and Procedure

2.10   Transition for Council Office Following Municipal Elections

       1. Transition Period. There is a period of approximately eight weeks from the November
          elections until the first of January, when Council Members begin serving their term of office.
          This period is considered a transition phase for the Council and the City Manager. In order to
          avoid confusion regarding the roles of Council Members, the following policy shall apply:

           a. Meeting Executive Staff. Council Member(s)-Elect are encouraged to meet with officials
              in the Administration prior to taking the oath of office, if they so desire. Upon request,
              the City Manager will make arrangements for convenient meeting times.

           b. Agenda Packets. When preparing agenda packets for regular Council meetings and Work
              Sessions, the City Manager will prepare an agenda packet for Council Members and
              Council Member(s)-Elect. Agenda packets for regular Council meetings will be delivered
              made available to the Council Members city mail delivery box office and delivered to the
              homes of the and Council Member(s)-Elect not later than Friday afternoon preceding the
              scheduled Council meeting.

           c. Mail and Miscellaneous Notices. The City Manager will provide Council Member(s)-Elect
              with copies of routine mail and other material that is sent to all Council Members.

           d. Surrendering City Property. Council Member(s) leaving office will deliver any City-owned
              equipment to the City Manager no later than noon on the day of the Induction Ceremony.
              City-owned property will include, but is not be limited to, laptop computers, printers,
              software, cell phones, office keys, desk keys, and official City identification.

2.11   Council Retreat

       1. Retreat to Consider Policy/Planning. At the discretion of the Council, the City Manager may
          schedule a Strategic retreat each year. This annual retreat of the City Council may occur in
          January with Council Members, Administrative staff and other personnel, as needed, to
          discuss policy, annual planning, City’s budget and other issues of mutual interest and concern.

2.12   Filing Fees

       Council Members will not sponsor legislative action items or petitions directing the Administration
       to allow citizens to avoid paying a required filing, building or permit fees. City ordinances govern
       such matters and cannot be waived, unless the ordinance provides a lawful process for exempting
       payment.

2.13   Service of Legal Documents

       The Mayor and each Council Member will refer service of all legal documents to the City
       Attorney’s Office.




                                                    8
                                       Riverton City Council
                                   Rules of Order and Procedure

                             PART 3          COUNCIL MEETINGS
3.1   Attendance of Members

      1. Meeting Attendance Required. The attendance of Council Members at regularly scheduled
         Council meetings is encouraged, acknowledging that absences will occasionally occur as a
         result of unavoidable circumstances. Anticipated absences shall be communicated to the
         Mayor or Mayor Pro-tem as soon as it is known when Council Members will be unable to
         attend. If a Council Member anticipates being absent for two or more consecutive regular
         Council meetings, the Council Member shall so advise the City Manager, who shall advise the
         attending Council Members at the next regularly scheduled Council meeting..

      2. Penalty for Non-Attendance. If any Council Member is absent for more than four regularly
         scheduled Council meetings, in a year’s time, $100.00 shall be deducted from his/her
         paycheck for each meeting missed beginning with the fourth absence. An absence that is the
         result of official City business will not be counted under this rule.

3.2   City Council Meeting Schedule

      1. Regular Meetings. The City Council holds at least one regular Council meeting per month to
         approve City business items. Such regular meetings will typically be held on the first, Tuesday
         of the month. In addition to regular Council meetings, work session meetings may be held
         during the third Tuesday of the month. Typically, City business items will not be presented to
         the City Council for approval during work session meetings, unless a special need arises to
         consider a business item for approval before a business meeting may convene, and the City
         Recorder has properly disclosed that a business item will be considered for approval by the
         City Council, in compliance with the Utah Open Public Meetings Act.

      2. Special/Emergency Meetings. Special or emergency meetings may be called by the Mayor or
         other member of the City Council, as provided by the Utah Open Public Meetings Act.

      3. Notice. The City Recorder shall be responsible for posting agendas and providing notice of all
         Council meetings, as provided by Utah law.

3.3   Council Meeting Agendas and Paperwork

      1. Regular Council Meeting Agendas. All proposed resolutions, ordinances, or other items
         which qualify for placement on a Council Meeting Agenda Items may be placed on the same
         Council agendas by the City Manager, the Mayor or two Council Members, who must
         individually communicate this request to the city Recorder as herein provided:

          a. Submittal to Recorder the City Manager and to Mayor. Requests to be placed on an
             agenda and supporting documents should be delivered to the Mayor and City Recorder
             Manager for a regular Tuesday Council meeting, no later than 5:00 p.m. on the preceding
             Tuesday. A courtesy copy of information submitted to the Recorder City Manager for the
             agenda should be delivered to the Mayor at or before the time such information is
             submitted to the RecorderCity Manager.

          b. Supporting Materials for Agenda Item. All items submitted for Council action, on a regular
             Council meeting agenda, should may include the following:
                                                  9
                                        Riverton City Council
                                    Rules of Order and Procedure


               i. Issue Paper. A written report that outlines the subject matter, fiscal impact and
                  recommendation in a form approved by the City Manager for matters requiring
                  approval by majority vote of the Council.

              ii. City Attorney Approvals. Many documents require the City Attorney’s approval “as
                  to form” before they can be executed. Such documents include Interlocal
                  Cooperation Agreements and contracts. It is, also, the preference of the Council to
                  have attorney approval on all other documents before formal Council approval,
                  including Ordinances, Resolutions, budget documents and the like. Except for good
                  cause shown, all such documents will be approved “as to legal form” by the City
                  Attorney, prior to being placed on a Council agenda.

             iii. Supporting Documents. All background material appropriate to an agenda item
                  should be included with the request to have a matter placed on the Council agenda.

          c. Consent Items on Council Agenda. If the agenda item is routine and likely non-
             controversial, it will be placed on the formal Council meeting “consent” line, for action at
             the soonest possible date. These items are only of a routine or ongoing nature. Consent
             agenda items shall include, but are not limited to: Resolutions for appointments and
             reappointments to City boards; Resolutions for appointment of administrative executive-
             level employees; Resolutions authorizing signature of non-controversial agreements, and
             other non-controversial items requiring a majority vote of the Council. If a Council
             Member has a question concerning a Council calendar item, they should talk to the City
             Manager prior to the meeting, if practical, rather than have the item pulled for discussion
             during the meeting.

          d. Business Items on Council Agenda. If agenda items are not routine, the item will be placed
             on the formal Council meeting “business” category in the agenda. The City Manager shall
             determine which items are to appear as business items. When non-routine agenda items
             appear to be of a controversial or politically sensitive nature, the City Manager will discuss
             the items with the Mayor before the item is scheduled for a Council agenda.

          e. Citizen Comments. Each regularly scheduled Council meeting will contain an agenda
             schedule for citizen comments. Any person desiring to address the Council will be
             permitted to speak, subject to legal constraints and the other applicable provisions of
             these rules, including but not limited to C.9.

3.4   Minutes of Meetings

      1. Utah Law general requirements. Under the Utah Open Public Meetings Act, Riverton City is
         required to keep written minutes of open meetings conducted by the Riverton City Council.
         Said minutes are required to include (without limitation) such information as: 1) the date,
         time and place of the meeting; 2) the names of council members present and absent; 3) the
         substance of all matters proposed, discussed or decided, which may include a summary of
         comments made by members of the public body; 4) the name of each person properly
         recognized to speak by the Mayor and the substance of the testimony or comments provided
         by that person. The City Council is also required to establish procedures for the public Body’s
         approval of the written minutes of each meeting. See Generally Utah Code § 52-4-101 et seq.

                                                  10
                                 Riverton City Council
                             Rules of Order and Procedure

2. Establishment of procedures for the approval of minutes. The City Council relies on the
   expertise of the City Recorder to draft minutes which comply with Utah law, and to furnish
   the same to the Council for approval. Although not required by law, written minutes should
   be furnished to the Council in the meeting immediately following the subject meeting for
   which minutes are created. Reasonable delays in furnishing draft minutes of prior public
   meetings due to occasional personnel management issues or other reasons which interfere
   with the carrying of ordinary workload are not considered a failure to meet the City Council’s
   standards set by these procedures. Council members shall not, individually, involve
   themselves in the drafting of meeting minutes while this process is being undertaken by the
   City Recorder. Ordinarily, the Council is first provided a draft of meeting minutes for review
   when the same are enclosed with the distribution of a City Council meeting agenda and packet
   some days before commencement of said meeting. Any requests to amend minutes supplied
   to the Council before a council meeting shall be made in the presence of the Council as a
   whole by email or other group communication. Requests to amend said meeting minutes
   before a scheduled meeting should be limited to grammar, spelling, and punctuation issues.
   The Council should refrain from requesting material changes to the substance of the minutes
   until the Council convenes in a scheduled meeting.

3. Features of Riverton City Council meeting minutes eligible for approval. The Council notes
   under the foregoing standards that meeting minutes may be created in a number of ways
   which comply with the Utah Open Public Meetings Act. A transcript of a meeting, for
   example, complies with the Act, but is generally too burdensome to undertake for each
   Council meeting. Conversely, meeting minutes which contain links to digital recordings of
   attendees’ statements, but provide no written summary of what was said, comply with the
   Act. In establishing procedures for approving minutes, the Council seeks to strike a balance
   between transparency of City business and efficiency in governance. Therefore, minutes
   which are eligible for approval by the Council shall, at a minimum, contain the following
   features:

        a. Compliance with Utah law. All minutes submitted for Council approval shall contain
           sufficient information to comply with each applicable section of the Utah Open Public
           Meetings Act.

        b. Links to digital recordings of statements made during Council meetings. Upon the
           commencement of each item to be discussed or otherwise presented to the Council,
           the Minutes shall provide a link to a digital recording which can be reviewed online
           or by visiting the City Recorder’s office. Said links shall note the time of the meeting
           which correlates to the commencement of a given item before the Council. Links shall
           not be required for each statement made by individuals involved in an item presented
           to the Council.

        c.b. Written summary of statements made by or before the Council. The City Recorder
             shall listen to and draft a summary of the substance of each statement made by
             persons duly recognized to speak in a Council meeting. The City Recorder shall listen
             to and may draft a summary of the substance of statements made by persons who
             are not recognized to speak in a Council meeting.

        d.c. Summary or transcript of staff reports or other written records may be included in
             minutes. The City Recorder may, at the Recorder’s discretion, summarize staff

                                           11
                                         Riverton City Council
                                     Rules of Order and Procedure

                   reports or other written records for inclusion in the Council minutes, or may provide
                   copies of such records in the minutes.

               e.d. Designees of City Recorder’s office allowed to create minutes. References to the
                    office of the City Recorder in drafting meeting minutes under these procedures
                    should not be interpreted to mean the City Recorder alone can draft said minutes.
                    The City Recorder may assign any tasks related to drafting meeting minutes to
                    individuals other than the City Recorder, at the Recorder’s discretion.

3.5    Resolutions of Support, Appreciation, or Recognition

       1. Resolutions. Resolutions of support, appreciation or recognition are placed on the Council
          agenda at the request of the City Manager, the Mayor or one or moreat least two Council
          Members.

       2. Council Members Requests. If a Council Member wishes to have a resolution placed on the
          Council agenda, the procedure will be as follows:

           a. The City Recorder will coordinate preparation of the resolution;

           b. If the City Manager views the subject of the resolution to be controversial, the City
              Recorder will make the other Council Members aware, in advance, that the item is going
              to be placed on the agenda;

           c. If the resolution appears to be routine or facially non-controversial, it will be prepared
              and placed on the agenda, without advance notification to other Council Members. As
              with all other agenda items, a copy of the resolution and background information will be
              included in the agenda packet that is delivered to Council Members, in advance of regular
              Council meetings.

           d. The City Manager will make the arrangements for appropriate City staff to be in
              attendance at the meeting to address the resolution that will be presented, if requested
              by the sponsoring Council Member.

       3. Non-City Requests. If a non-City organization contacts the City Manager/City Recorder and
          requests that a resolution be placed on the Council agenda, the City Manager will consider
          the matter. If the City Manager deems the matter controversial or not appropriate for his/her
          sole action, the requestor will be advised to get the Mayor or a Council Member sponsor.

       4. Employee/Department Recognition. When a proposed resolution is intended to recognize a
          City employee, department or division for achievement, the City Manager will draft a letter
          to be signed by the Mayor and Council Members congratulating the employee, department
          or division, or (as appropriate) cause time on the Council’s agenda to permit the Mayor, on
          behalf of the Council Members, to present or announce the award during a Council meeting.

3.63.5 Public Hearings and Notification

       1. Policy Statement. The Riverton City Council encourages input from the public on major
          issues, particularly those involving funding, budgeting and major policy initiatives. To
          facilitate that citizen participation, the Council favors holding public hearing, after appropriate
                                                    12
                                 Riverton City Council
                             Rules of Order and Procedure

    published notification, of City residents, particularly those impacted by the pending Council
    action.

2. Mandatory Hearings. Statutory law requires public hearings on some matters, even when
   some may view this process as unnecessary, expensive or merely imposing an unreasonable
   delay. These mandatory hearings include:Riverton City will follow all applicable state laws or
   City code when noticing mandatory hearings.

    a. Annexations.

        i. Adoption of Policy of Declaration. Unless State law is changed, the City Council must
           hold a public hearing concerning a proposed annexation. The Council will officially
           set the date in a regular Council meeting, allowing for sufficient time ahead of the
           meeting date to enable the City Recorder to publish adequate notices required under
           Utah law, and adopt a resolution of annexation at that time.

        ii. Adoption of Annexation Ordinance. Following the public hearing, the Council may
            adopt a motion, conceptually approving the annexation. After conceptual approval,
            state statute requires a five-day waiting period for the filing of any protests. The
            Council may adopt the official annexation ordinance after the five-day waiting period.
            Normally this ordinance is scheduled on the Consent agenda of the Council’s next
            formal meeting. The territory is annexed when the ordinance is adopted.

    b. Disconnections. Before citizens can disconnect their property from a municipality, the
       City Council must hold a public hearing and receive public comment. Notice of this
       hearing must be published in accordance with Utah law prior to convening the meeting.

    c. Special Improvement Districts.

        i. Protest Hearing. The Council must adopt a resolution declaring its intent to create a
           Special Improvement District which identifies the boundaries of the district and the
           work to be performed. Following adoption of the resolution, advertisement of the
           Council’s intent to create the district and the time and date of the protest hearing
           must be published in compliance with Utah law

        ii. Notice of Intention. Additionally, a copy of the Notice of Intention and a notification
            of the protest hearing must be mailed to each property owner to be assessed within
            the Special Improvement District, prior to the protest hearing. Following the protest
            hearing, the Council may adopt a resolution creating the District.

    d. Street/Alley Narrowing/Vacating/Closure/Name Change. Prior to taking action on a
       proposal affecting the public right-of-way, the Council must hold a public hearing.
       Advertisement of the hearing concerning the proposed action must occur once a week
       for four consecutive weeks, prior to the hearing. A notice of the proposed action must be
       mailed to the owners of record for all land abutting the affected street or alley.

    e. Zoning Changes. Following receipt of the recommendation of the Planning Commission
       concerning the proposed zoning change or change to the requirements in the City’s
       zoning ordinance, a public hearing will be set by the City Recorder. Advertisement of the
       hearing must occur one time, at least 10 days prior to the hearing, unless a greater
                                          13
                                        Riverton City Council
                                    Rules of Order and Procedure

               advance notification period is required by ordinance. The City Recorder will mail notices
               to affected property owners within 300 feet of the proposed rezone.

          f.   General Plan Creation and Amendment. The Municipal Land Use and Development Act
               requires that City Councils adopt a General Plan. From time to time, the City Council may
               amend the General Plan. For both the adoption and amendment of the General Plan, the
               Act requires that the City Council hold a public hearing and provide notice of that hearing,
               at least 10 days prior to the day the hearing is held, unless a greater advance notification
               period is required by ordinance.

          g. Subdivision Ordinance Amendment. The City’s Subdivision Ordinance, which governs the
             requirements for how subdivisions are platted and constructed, will be amended as the
             City develops. Before the City Council can amend the Subdivision Ordinance, they shall
             hold a public hearing and publish notice of that hearing ten days prior to the day it is held,
             unless a greater advance notification period is required by ordinance.

          h. Budgets. In accordance with the State Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities, the
             City Council shall adopt a budget. Prior to adopting the budget, the Council must adopt a
             “Tentative Budget” following a public hearing. Notice of this public hearing must be
             published in a newspaper of general circulation, at least seven days prior to the date of
             the hearing. In addition, at any time during the budget year the City Council may vote to
             increase one or more of the funds listed in the Fiscal Procedure Act, including capital
             improvement, general, special revenue and debt service funds. Before the City Council
             may increase any of these funds, they must first hold a public hearing with notice provided
             as described above.

3.73.6 Closed Meetings

      1. Open and Closed Meeting Standards. Utah Law requires that every meeting of a legislative
         body remain open to the public unless it is lawfully closed. However, §52-4-204, of the Utah
         Code provides that a closed meeting may be held upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
         the members of the public body, provided that a quorum is present. No ordinance, resolution,
         rule, regulation, contract, or appointment can be approved at a closed meeting. The reason(s)
         for holding a closed meeting and the vote, either for or against the proposition to hold such
         a meeting, must be cast by each Council Member, by name, and the vote shall be entered in
         the minutes of the meeting. Utah law allows a closed meeting to be held for any of the
         following purposes:

          a. Discussion of the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an
             individual; however, the Council may not interview a person to fill an elected position in
             a closed meeting; provided, however that a public body may not interview a person
             applying to fill an elected position in a closed meeting;

          b. strategy sessions to discuss collective bargaining;

          c. strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation; or

          d. strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property when public
             discussion of the transaction would disclose the appraisal or estimated value of the

                                                   14
                                         Riverton City Council
                                     Rules of Order and Procedure

                property under consideration or prevent the public body from completing the transaction
                on the best possible terms;

           e. strategy sessions to discuss the sale of real property when:

                 i.    public discussion of the transaction would disclose the appraisal or estimated
                       value of the property under consideration or prevent the public body from
                       completing the transaction on the best possible terms;

                ii.    the public body had previously given public notice that the property would be
                       offered for sale; and

                iii.   the terms of the sale are publicly disclosed before the public body approves the
                       sale;

           f.   discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and

           g. investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal misconduct.

       2. Records or Minutes Required. Section §52-4-206 of the Utah Code, defines the record of
          closed meetings and how they must be kept. This section states that if a public body closes a
          meeting to discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of
          an individual or to discuss the deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems, the
          person presiding must sign a sworn statement affirming that the meeting was closed for one
          of these sole purposes. If a public body closes a meeting for any other purpose, the public
          body shall either tape record the closed portion of the meeting or keep detailed written
          minutes that disclose the content of the closed portion of the meeting.

       3. Confidentiality Required. It is imperative that all closed meeting discussions remain
          completely confidential. No Council Member shall disclose confidential information acquired
          by reason of the officer’s official position or use such information for the officer’s or another’s
          private gain or benefit. Any person violating this duty of non-disclosure may be subject to
          criminal sanctions.

       4. Notice. Notice of a closed meeting must be in an Council agenda, dully posted and publicized.
          This notice must, usually, be given 24 hours before a scheduled meeting. However,
          emergency meetings, including closed meetings, may be held as provided and controlled by
          §52-4-202 of the Utah Code.

3.83.7 Electronic Council Meetings

       1. Conditions; Elements. Utah law authorizes the City Council to hold meetings electronically.
          The law defines an electronic meeting as a public meeting convened or conducted by means
          of a telephonic, telecommunications or computer conference. In order to participate,
          members of the Council must have the ability to communicate with all other members, either
          verbally or electronically, so that each Council Member can hear or see the communication.
          Public hearings are also allowed, as part of the electronic meeting. However, as with any
          public meeting, electronic meetings must be properly noticed in compliance with the Open
          Meetings Act.

                                                    15
                                        Riverton City Council
                                    Rules of Order and Procedure

      2. Limitations. For those instances, when the Council elects to hold an electronic meeting:

          a. the meeting will be held with a quorum (3 members) physically present at the same
             physical location;

          b. the meeting will be called only for a declared City emergency, to accommodate Council
             Members who are traveling outside the City on official City business, or other unique
             circumstances that make such a meeting in the public interest;

          c. the meeting will be held within Riverton City Hall, or at the Emergency Operations Center
             of the Fire Station of the Unified Fire Authority, if necessary and at a facility that allows
             the public to attend, monitor and participate in open portions of the meeting;

          d. audio equipment will be used so that comments of each Council Member participating
             electronically will be audible to those attending the meeting; and

          e. reasonable but diligent efforts shall be made to notify and accommodate Council
             Members who are traveling outside the City on official City business so that they can
             participate in such a meeting, if they desire to do so.

3.93.8 Citizen Comments at Council Meetings

      1. Citizen Comment. During the citizen comment portion of Council meetings, members of the
         audience will be permitted to address the Council concerning any matter, if it pertains to City
         business or a matter over which the Council has jurisdiction, time permitting. However, if the
         matter to be discussed is the subject of a public hearing, the citizen will be required to speak
         when that hearing is conducted and public comments presented. Audience members
         addressing the Council and/or Mayor will be called forward to the podium by the presiding
         officer of the Council meeting. Each speaker is required to speak into the microphone at the
         podium, clearly state their name and indicate if they are a resident of Riverton City. The
         Council will allow three (3) minutes to address the Council, unless the Council, allocates more
         time in a content-neutral and uniform manner. There shall be a cap of fifteen (15) minutes
         allowed for Citizen Comment period each Council meeting.

      2. At the beginning of the formal Council meeting, those wishing to comment will be called
         forward to the podium. The presiding officer may take a poll of those wishing to speak for or
         against an issue, in determining how many individuals or spokespersons to accommodate.
         When groups are going to speak to the same issue, the presiding officer will request a
         spokesperson(s) to represent that position as an aid and to facilitate the efficient and effective
         use of the limited time available at the meeting. The order of presentations shall be at the
         sole discretion of the presiding officer; however, the presiding officer should give preference
         to those persons who have requested in writing, before the commencement of the meeting,
         to be heard or on the agenda. At that time, the Council may direct the City Manager to assist
         the citizen on the issue, which could include future formal action by the Council. Citizens may
         also supplement their comments by providing documents or supplement their oral
         statements by filing written comments.

      3. Address and Phone Numbers. In order to permit follow-up by City staff, each person
         addressing the Council will may be requested to provide their address; however, that person

                                                  16
                                         Riverton City Council
                                     Rules of Order and Procedure

           or the presiding officer may elect to have their information given only to the City, in writing,
           and on a card provided by the City Recorder, if privacy or security is a concern.

      4. Written Supplementary Information. Due to the limitation on the time available for an oral
         presentation, any person wishing to communicate is encouraged to submit any written
         materials or comments to the Council by submitting them through the City Recorder, either
         before or at the time of the meeting he or she participates in.

3.103.9        Communication Devices

      1. Duty to Disengage Electronic Equipment. Persons attending Council meeting are to refrain
         from using and shall turn off audible features of cellular telephones, audible pagers or other
         communication devices, while meetings are in session.

      2. Removal for Violation. A person who violates these provisions is disorderly and may be
         evicted from the meeting upon a two-thirds majority vote of the Council, pursuant to §10-3-
         608 of the Utah Code.

3.113.10       Council Subcommittees

      The Council may choose to create Council Subcommittees for certain issues. Council
      Subcommittees are comprised of up to three Council Members, with the City Manager providing
      support services. Subcommittees are created to facilitate discussion, draft proposed policies and
      make recommendations to the full Council for its consideration.

3.123.11       Removal of Disorderly Persons

      Persons who exceed the time or are otherwise disorderly may be expelled by the Council upon a
      two-thirds majority vote, as provided in §10-3-608 of the Utah Code. However, nothing herein
      shall limit or preclude a person from being arrested, cited or otherwise subject to police action
      for a violation of other applicable law.

3.133.12       General Procedures

      1. Modified Roberts Rules. Roberts Rules were developed for large-scale legislative bodies. A
         scaled-down and modified version is more appropriate for a City Council comprised of seven
         members. Thus, the Council adopts a simplified parliamentary procedures, as follows:

      2. Presiding Officer. The Mayor is the Presiding Officer and acts as Chair at Council meetings.
         In the absence or incapacity of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro-Tempore serves as presiding officer.

      3. Seating. The Mayor Pro-Tempore is seated immediately next to the Mayor. The Mayor, with
         the approval of individual Council Members, shall establish other seating arrangements for
         regular Council meetings.

      4. Signing Documents. The Mayor, unless unavailable, shall sign all ordinances, resolutions,
         contracts and other documents which have been adopted by the City Council and require an
         official signature. However, the Council may delegate to the City Manager or specific
         Department Heads the authority to sign documents and contracts, by separate resolution or


                                                   17
                                Riverton City Council
                            Rules of Order and Procedure

   motion. In the event that the Mayor is unavailable, the Mayor Pro-Tempore’s signature may
   be used.

5. Discussion Rules. To assist the City Council in conducting meetings in an orderly manner, the
   following structure and rules for the orderly discussion of items are adopted:

   a. Obtaining the floor. A member of the City Council shall first address the Mayor and gain
      recognition. Comments and questions should be limited to the issue before the Council.
      Cross-exchange between Council Members and public should be avoided.

   b. Questions to Staff. A Council Member may, after recognition by the Mayor, address
      questions to the staff member designated to be familiar with the topic related a Council
      Member’s question.

   c. Interruptions. Once recognized, a Council Member should not be interrupted while
      speaking, except to make a point of order or personal privilege. If a Council Member is
      called to order while speaking, the individual shall cease speaking until the question order
      is determined. Upon being recognized by the Mayor, members of the staff shall hold the
      floor until completion of their remarks or until recognition is withdrawn by the Mayor.

   d. Discussion Limit. A Council Member should not speak more than once on a particular
      subject, until every other Council Member has had the opportunity to speak; however, it
      is the prerogative of the Chair to recognize a Council Member, who has already spoken,
      before all other members have had the chance to speak. Council Members are
      encouraged to discuss items during the decision-making process.

   e. Tabling Procedure. A motion to table a matter immediately stops discussion and causes
      a vote to postpone the matter indefinitely or to a time and date certain. In the event a
      matter is tabled to a time and date certain, no special publication of notices is required,
      provided the City Recorder satisfies the minimal noticing requirements of the Utah Open
      Public Meetings Act for the subsequent meeting wherein the tabled matter is again
      discussed.

   f.   Right of Protest. A Council Member may, but is never required to, state reasons for a
        dissenting vote.

   g. Obligation to Maintain Order and Decorum. Each Council Member shall work to preserve
      appropriate order and decorum during all meetings. This objective will be advanced by:
      discouraging side conversations, disruptions, interruptions or delaying efforts. Also, each
      Council Member shall inform the Mayor when departing from a meeting.

   6. Limit Disruptive Behavior. Persons demonstrating rude, boisterous, or profane behavior
      will be called to order by the Mayor. When faced with continued rude, boisterous, or
      profane behavior any member of the Council may call a recess, request a vote on
      removing such disorderly person(s) from the Council Chambers, adjourn the meeting, or
      take such other appropriate action as permitted by law.

   7. Public Demonstrations Inappropriate. Applause, booing or other similar behavior from
      the public during meetings is discouraged and, if persistent, may constitute disruptive

                                          18
                                       Riverton City Council
                                   Rules of Order and Procedure

              behavior or render an individual a disorderly person, subject to removal and other lawful
              sanctions.

           8. Values of Respect. The City Council recognizes the importance of approaching the
              public’s business in an environment of personal respect. The public’s business should be
              conducted on a basis of considering policy and advancing the best interests of the
              community, while protecting individual rights and property. As such, Council Members
              should focus discussions on policy matter and avoid personal criticism. Polite and
              reasoned discourse should be observed, while following and observing proper rules of
              procedure.

           9. Enforcement of Order. The Police Chief or his/her designee is the Sergeant-at-Arms. Any
              Council Member may request the Mayor to enforce the rules of protocol and move to
              limit or end disruptive behavior or remove disorderly persons, consistent with law.

3.143.13      Voting Procedures

      1. Obligation to Vote. When present, each Council Member is to vote.

      2. How Vote Taken. Each ordinance, resolution, and any action which would create a liability
         against the City, and other cases at the request of any Member of the Council, shall be acted
         upon by a roll call vote of each Council Member, by a “yes” or “no” vote. Every resolution or
         ordinance shall be in writing before the vote is taken and no ordinance, resolution or motion
         shall be passed or become effective, without an affirmative majority vote of the quorum,
         including: (1) not less than the minimum votes required by §10-3-507 Utah Code Ann., 1953
         as amended or its successor provision; or (2) a super majority vote, if mandated by applicable
         State law.

      3. Abstention. If a seated Council Member abstains and refuses to vote, the abstention will be
         counted as a “no” vote.

      4. Tie Vote. A tie vote is equivalent to a vote that has failed

      5. General Consensus. Matters not requiring a “roll call” vote may be acted upon by the
         presiding officer declaring a general consensus in his/her discretion provided there is no
         negative vote or objection by a Council Member. Alternatively, the presiding officer may call
         for a collective vote of the Council, as a yea or nay vote.

      6. Recording. All action and votes of the Council shall be recorded by the City Recorder. The
         City Recorder retains some discretion in the order votes are called from Council Members.
         When the Council considering an application to rezone property, however, the City Recorder
         is expected to take the last vote of the Council from the Member whose voting district
         envelops the property which is the subject of the rezone application. A failure by the City
         Recorder to obtain the last vote of the Council in the manner described in this section will not
         render void the voting decision of the Council.

      7. Courtesy Votes. At times a Council Member will be absent from a meeting. At the next
         meeting, the absent Council Member may state on the record how he/she would have voted
         and briefly explain that intended vote, if that Council Member had been in attendance.

                                                  19
                                        Riverton City Council
                                    Rules of Order and Procedure

      8. Reconsideration. Reconsideration of decided matters or issues is discouraged; however,
         requests will be considered by majority vote, if orally made. A motion for reconsideration
         must be made: (1) by a member of the prevailing majority, when the previous vote was taken;
         and (2) within two regular meetings following the previous council vote, unless a majority of
         the Council determines that significant new information has arisen which warrants such
         reevaluation. If a member is absent from the meeting, a motion for reconsideration may be
         entertained on the first regular meeting of his/her return.

      9. Conflicts of Interest. If a Council Member has a conflict of interest under State or City law,
         that Council Member shall declare that conflict and excuse him/herself from the dais. The
         conflicted Council Member shall not lobby, vote or address the matter with Council Members
         or staff.

3.153.14       Appeals of Land-use Decisions to the City Council

      1. The Riverton Municipal Code provides for appeals to be made to the City Council in a variety
         of instances. This Rule sets forth the manner and procedure for these appeals, and is subject
         to the provisions of the Riverton Municipal Code.

           a. Agenda. All appeals to the City Council shall be placed on the City Council agenda
              pursuant to Rule 4 of these Rules.

           b. Record. Appeals to the City Council shall be based upon the record of the decision from
              which the appeal is being taken. The record shall consist of (1) only those documents and
              exhibits submitted to the decision making body, or individual, whose decision is being
              appealed, at or before the meeting giving rise to the appeal, and (2) any written decision,
              findings of fact, conclusions of law, and all other documents relating to the decision being
              appealed. The record shall also include the minutes and transcripts of that same meeting.

               i.      Supplemental Documentation. Upon petition of the Appellant, and for good
                       cause shown, the City Council may allow the Appellant to supplement the record
                       within the time set forth in Section 10.3.2 below. City Staff shall also be allowed
                       to respond to any supplemental documentation submitted by the Appellant
                       within the time limits set forth below.

      2. Time Limits. Unless otherwise required by ordinance or statute, Appeals to the City Council
         shall be made within 15 calendar days after the date of the decision which is being appealed.
         The end of the 15th day is at 5:00 p.m. If the 15th day falls on a weekend or holiday, the
         Notice of Appeal must be filed before 5 p.m. on the next regular business day.

               a. Manner of Appeal. An appeal of a decision may be made by submitting to the City
                  Recorder a Notice of Appeal. The Notice of Appeal shall be in writing, and must
                  include a concise summary of the decision being appealed, the legal basis for the
                  appeal, and the remedy being sought by the Appellant. The Notice of Appeal shall
                  also include a copy of the record which can be obtained from the Department from
                  which the appeal originates. Failure to comply with the above requirements will
                  render an appeal defective and be grounds for rejection by the City Recorder of the
                  Appeal. No extensions of time will be granted to correct a defective appeal except
                  for good cause shown.

                                                  20
                                        Riverton City Council
                                    Rules of Order and Procedure

              b. Time limits for Supplemental Documentation. A request to submit supplemental
                 documentation must be included within the Notice of Appeal. The reasons for
                 submitting supplemental documentation must be clear and cogent. The City Council
                 will rule on the Appellant’s request to submit supplemental documentation at the
                 earliest available City Council meeting. All supplemental documentation the
                 appellant wishes to submit shall be forwarded to the City Recorder within 5 days after
                 the decision of the City Council granting the Appellant’s request to submit the same.
                 Following the submittal by the Appellant of supplemental documentation, the City
                 Staff will then be allowed to respond to the supplemental documentation within 10
                 calendar days after the Appellant’s documentation is received by the City Recorder.

      3. Hearing. Appeals to the City Council shall be heard by the City Council at a regularly scheduled
         open City Council meeting. The date and time of the hearing shall be scheduled pursuant to
         Rule 4 of these rules and on a date and at a time convenient to the City Council, and the
         Appellant shall be notified of the City Council hearing date at least seven (7) days prior to the
         scheduled City Council hearing.

          a. Hearing Procedure. The hearing for the appeal shall reasonably proceed as follows: the
             Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem will call for the appeal to be heard and invite the Appellant to
             come forward and address the City Council. The Appellant will then be allowed 15
             minutes to address the City Council, summarize the information contained in the record
             and in the supplemental documentation, if any, and make any arguments. The Appellant
             will not be allowed to raise new issues, or refer to new information not previously
             submitted to the City Council. Following the Appellants presentation, the City Staff will
             be allowed fifteen minutes to make a presentation. City Staff will also not be allowed to
             raise new issues, or refer to new information not previously submitted to the City Council.
             Following presentations to the City Council by the City Staff, the Appellant will have five
             minutes for a rebuttal presentation. This presentation shall be limited to responding to
             the presentations of the City Staff. The Appellant will not be allowed to raise new issues
             or refer to new information not previously submitted to the City Council

          b. Voting by the Council. Following the presentations, the City Council may then discuss the
             appeal and ask questions of the Appellant, City Staff, and Planning Commission
             representative. Following any questions and answers, the Mayor will declare the hearing
             closed. The Mayor will then call for a motion, and the City Council may, in any lawful way:
             (1) move and vote to deny the appeal; (2) move and vote grant the appeal with
             appropriate remedies; or (3) Move and vote to take the appeal under advisement,
             pending a final decision. The City Council may also, with appropriate instructions
             regarding a final decision, direct the City Attorney to draft a written decision for
             consideration and approval at a later meeting of the City Council.

      4. Decision to be Final. All appeals decided by the City Council shall be final.

               PART 4           INTERACTION WITH CITY STAFF/OFFICALS
4.1   Interaction with City Staff/Officials

      1. Overview. City Council policy is implemented through professional staff. Therefore, it is
         critical that the relationship between Council and staff be well understood by all parties in
         order that City policies and programs may be implemented successfully. The City has a long
                                                21
                                   Riverton City Council
                               Rules of Order and Procedure

    tradition of positive relationships between members of the City Council and staff. To maintain
    these effective relationships, it is important that roles are clearly recognized.

2. Council-Manager Form of Government. Riverton City has created an office of the City
   Manager by ordinance. Basically, this structure of government reflects that it is the City
   Council’s role to establish City policy and priorities. The Council appoints a City Manager to
   assist the Mayor in implementation of Council policies and undertake the administration of
   the organization. The City Council is to work through the City Manager in dealing with City
   staff.

3. City Manager Duties. The City Manager is appointed by the City Council to enforce its laws;
   to direct the daily operations of City government; to prepare and monitor the municipal
   budget; and to implement the policies and programs initiated by the City Council. The City
   Manager is responsible to the City Council, rather than to individual Council Members. The
   Manager has the sole responsibility to direct and coordinate the various departments and City
   staff.

4. Council/Manager Relationship. The employment relationship between the City Council and
   City Manager honors the fact that the City Manager provides executive functions and services
   for the City. The City Council should avoid situations that can result in City staff being directed,
   intentionally or unintentionally, by one or more members of the City Council. Regular
   communication between the City Council and the City Manager is important in maintaining
   open communications. All dealings with the City Manager, whether in public or private,
   should respect the authority of the City Manager in administrative matters.

5. The City Council is to evaluate the City Manager on a regular basis (at least annually) to ensure
   that both the City Council and City Manager are in agreement about performance and goals
   based on mutual trust and common objections. Riverton City Councils have utilized the
   following areas of performance: communications; interpersonal/community relations; and
   ability to accomplish goals and objectives.

6. As in any professional relationship, it is important that the City Manager keep the City Council
   informed. The City Manager respects and is sensitive to the political responsibility of the City
   Council and acknowledges that the final responsibility for establishing the policy direction of
   the City is the City Council. The City Manager communicates with City Council in various ways.
   There is a formalized approach by holding briefing meetings with individual Council Members
   and through “For Your Information” memorandums, and by bi-weekly City Activity Reports.
   Communication must be undertaken in such a way that all Council Members are treated
   similarly and kept equally informed.

7. City Manager Code of Ethics. The City Manager is subject to a professional code of ethics
   from his/her professional association. It should be noted that this code binds the City
   Manager to certain practices which are designed to ensure actions are in support of the City’s
   best interests. Violations of such standards can result in censure by the professional
   association.

8. City Council/City Attorney Relationship. The City Attorney is the legal advisor for the City as
   a corporate entity. The general legal responsibilities of the City Attorney are to: 1) provide
   legal assistance necessary for formulation and implementation of legislative policies and
   projects; 2) represent the City’s interest, as determined by the City Manager, in litigation,
                                           22
                                  Riverton City Council
                              Rules of Order and Procedure

    administrative hearings, negotiations and similar proceedings; 3) prepare ordinances,
    resolutions, contracts and other legal documents to best reflect and implement the purposes
    for which they are prepared; and 4) to keep City Council and staff apprised of court rulings
    and legislation affecting the legal interest of the City. It is important to note that the City
    Attorney does not represent individual members of Council, but the City Council as a whole.

9. Roles and Information Flow. It is the responsibility of the City Manager to provide Council
   Members free and reasonable access to information from the City and to insure that such
   information is communicated completely and with candor to those making the request. To
   carry out this responsibility, however, Council Members must avoid intrusion into those areas
   which are the responsibility of the City Manager and the Administration. Individual Council
   Members may not intervene in Administrative decision-making, the development of
   recommendations, scheduling of work, and executing department priorities, without the prior
   knowledge and approval of the City Council as a whole. This limitation is necessary to protect
   Administrative staff from undue influence and pressure from individual Council Members and
   to allow Administrative personnel to execute priorities given by management and the Council,
   as a whole, without fear of reprisal.

10. Council Roles. Individual members of the City Council shall not attempt to pressure or
    influence Administrative staff decisions, recommendations, workloads, schedules, or
    department priorities, without the prior knowledge and formal approval of the City Council,
    as a whole. If a Council Member wishes to influence the actions, decisions, recommendations,
    workloads, work schedule, and priorities of Administrative staff, that Council Member must
    prevail upon the Council and to do so as a matter of Council policy.

11. Legislative/Executive Communications. When the information or action of interest to a
    Council Member is minor and will require minimal staff time, or information sought is
    available to the general public, the Council Member may make the request to the affected
    department head. However, when the information or action requested is significant,
    requiring considerable staff-time or deals with a sensitive issue, the Council, as a whole, will
    submit the request to the City Manager, in writing. In no event will requests be made by the
    Council or an individual Council Member to City staff, other than the City Manager, the
    Assistant City Manager and the City Attorney. Nevertheless, Council Members are welcome
    to contact the City Manager, the Assistant City Manager, the City Attorney or Department
    Heads or their designees to obtain information. In some cases, Department heads will have
    specified Division Managers, who are available to address Council Member concerns.

12. Council Members may periodically choose to contact Department heads to discuss ideas,
    express concerns on behalf of constituents, request information, etc. It is acknowledged that
    the Department head is naturally in a somewhat difficult position in communicating with
    Council Members. Department heads formally report to the City Manager, yet are charged
    with managing their departments within resources provided by the Council. There may be
    circumstances where the Department head would like to say yes to the request made by a
    Council Member, but is unable to do so because of differing management directives from the
    City Manager; inadequate budget resources; applicable law; ordinance restrictions; concerns
    about setting a precedence (saying yes to this request would mean that the service must be
    provided Citywide and that is not possible within existing resources); or other reasons. In
    those instances, the Council agrees and understands that the Department head may request
    that the Council Member’s request be processed through the City Manager. The Council
    recognizes that when seeking information related to matters under investigation or
                                           23
                                 Riverton City Council
                             Rules of Order and Procedure

    management by law enforcement, protecting the integrity of case investigations and
    maintaining safety for all involved are of paramount concern. Accordingly, when requesting
    information related to an ongoing law enforcement investigation, emergency response, or
    other significant matters involving law enforcement, Council Members shall refrain from
    involving themselves in the matter by undertaking such actions as (without limitation)
    entering crime scenes, speaking with witnesses, speaking with law enforcement personnel,
    or seeking time and attention of the Riverton Police Chief. Rather, the inquiring Member(s)
    of Council shall await a response from the Mayor or designee of the Mayor to communicate
    with Council Member(s) at a time deemed appropriate by the Mayor about law enforcement-
    related matters.

13. Access to Information. Individual Council Members, as well as the Council as a whole, are
    permitted complete freedom of access to any public information and shall receive the full
    cooperation and candor of Administrative staff in being provided with any such information,
    without fee or other charge. Confidential information held by the City is also accessible to
    members of the Council on a need-to-know basis, however no Council Members shall disclose
    confidential information acquired by reason of the officer’s official position or use such
    information for the officer’s or another’s private gain or benefit. Any person violating this
    duty of non-disclosure may be subject to criminal sanctions. Privileged, confidential or other
    non-public information will be requested and subject to the provisions of subparagraph “h”
    above.

14. Restrictions on Political Involvement by Administrative Staff. No City property or funds will
    be used for Council Members political campaigns or elections. For Administrative staff, the
    City Manager strongly discourages any involvement in a local campaign, even while on
    personal time, because such involvement erodes the tenet that staff are to provide an equal
    level of service to all members of the City Council and the public. However, the City Manager
    specifically prohibits any political involvement in local campaigns by department heads and
    Council Members will not make requests of them to participate in campaigns for election.




                                           24
