                                     Riverton City, Utah
                                   CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                                           Minutes
                                       January 17, 2023

                               Riverton City Hall
                            12830 South 1700 West
                             Riverton, Utah 84065
____________________________________________________________________________
Attendance:

Mayor Trent Staggs

Councilmembers:                              City Staff:
Councilmember Tish Buroker                   David Brickey, City Manager
Councilmember Tawnee McCay                   Kevin Hicks, Administrative Services Director
Councilmember Troy McDougal                  Jamie Larsen, City Recorder
Councilmember Andy Pierucci                  Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
Councilmember Claude Wells                   Cary Necaise, Deputy Public Works Director
                                             Stacie Olson, Water Manager
                                             Chief Don Hutson, Riverton Police Department
                                             Ryan Carter, City Attorney
                                             Casey Saxton, Communications Director
                                             Chief Wade Watkins, Unified Fire Authority
                                             Sheril Garn, Director of Events and Operations

Mayor and Council Informal Meeting

WORK SESSION – 5:45 PM

Call to Order

Mayor Staggs called the Work Session to order at 5:46 PM and conducted a roll call.
Councilmembers Buroker, McCay, McDougal, Pierucci and Wells were present.

Discussion Items

       Choice Awards Discussion

Mayor Staggs explained he was trying to make the presentation of the Choice Awards as evenly
as possible among all of the Councilmembers. Jamie Larsen, City Recorder, provided an email
to the Councilmembers, including the district maps overlaid with the school boundaries of
elementary schools, middle schools and high schools within Riverton City. These maps are
included in the packet.

Mayor Staggs said in looking at the maps, he realized there were a couple of schools that were
included in the boundaries that could be added to the list for recognition. This would allow each
Councilmember to present to two or three schools. The three schools that were added were
Hidden Valley Middle School, Silvercrest Elementary and Ridgeview Elementary. He would like
to have metrics to determine what schools to recognize.
Page | 2 Minutes – City Council Meeting
January 17, 2023




Councilmember McCay suggested including Northstar Academy because it has 70% Riverton
residents. Mayor Staggs said Draper City recognizes this school in their city.

Casey Saxton, Communications Director, forwarded an email to the Council that includes
percentage of Riverton students at each school in Jordan School District. This email was
included in the packet.

Councilmember Buroker said she like recognizing every school in the same year instead of
rotating over multiple years. She would like to rotate the schools based on theeeeee
percentage of Riverton students that attend. For example, Rosamond Elementary has over
95% of Riverton residents that attend and she would like them recognized more frequently.

Councilmember McDougal recommended that the schools to be included should reside in
Riverton boundaries or have a 20% threshold of Riverton students attending.

Councilmember Pierucci said Copper Mountain has about 90 Riverton residents that attend and
he believes this is a significant number that should be recognized.

Mayor Staggs said he would like to continue recognizing each school once a year. He
suggested taking out Ridgeview Elementary because only 2% of Riverton residents attend. He
likes the idea of a 20% Riverton resident threshold for the schools that will be recognized.

Councilmember McCay suggested recognizing the high schools on different nights instead of
the same night.

Councilmember Buroker asked if any of the schools, particularly the middle schools, had
expressed concern about participating in the Choice Awards because they have their own
award system. Ms. Larsen said all of the schools have been eager to participate.

Mayor Staggs said that he would create a final schedule and send it to the Council.


         RFSA and RLESA Board Meetings Discussion

Mayor Staggs said the RFSA and RLESA meetings had consisted primarily of meeting minutes
over the past few months.

Councilmember Buroker explained these meetings have been on her mind for several months
because the meetings are held to approve the meeting minutes and nothing else is discussed.
She gave each of the Councilmembers copies of minutes and agendas from various meetings
which was included with the packet.

Councilmember Buroker included an agenda for Unified Fire Service Area which is essentially
the same type of special district as RFSA which was created when the City separated from
Unified Fire Service Area. She would like Riverton district meetings to look like these meetings.
She would like to include a section in Riverton district meetings for the conditions of the district
which would include a discussion about safety, safety trainings, workers compensation, etc.

Councilmember Buroker said a bill in the legislature will change the local districts back to
special districts because the federal government doesn’t recognize local districts.
Page | 3 Minutes – City Council Meeting
January 17, 2023




Mayor Staggs commented that the meetings had been agenda-light because Councilmembers
are wearing multiple hats. Some of the other agencies are much larger in terms of the dollar
amount they are managing. He said there could be finance committees and he would like to
see safety reports. He said they could possibly put together an enhanced agenda.

Councilmember McCay agrees that these meetings should have more information and
discussion. Councilmember Buroker said that safety is now part of fire and she would like to
receive a report regularly.

Councilmember Pierucci said he would like the public to have reports regularly and would like to
hear more from police and fire.

Mr. Saxton said that RFSA and RLESA are both funding mechanisms. However, the operations
of Unified Fire and Riverton Police department are done by the City.


         City Owned Fiber Optic Infrastructure Project Discussion

Mayor Staggs explained that Fund 15 is the American Rescue Funds and the Council has
agreed on various projects to use this money. There has been a RFP for the City owned fiber
optic infrastructure. The bid came in at or about $1 million which will connect 5 City facilities
with 10 gig connectivity for 10 years with no cost to the City. The cost right now is about
$50,000 per year. The City is negotiating with the group who bid on the project and he is hoping
to have more details soon.


Mayor/Council/Manager Reports

Mayor Staggs said he has a project meeting with staff on Tuesdays before Council meeting to
go over a list of 25-30 projects based on the strategic plan and are priority projects. The top
project currently on the list is the Greenwell project. The design of this project was awarded to
Epic Engineering and is now complete. The construction was awarded to Stapp Construction
and the timeline for completion is March 15. The City needs to be able to meet the June 30
deadline to deliver water to the County.

Mayor Staggs said another project is the installation of secondary water meters. The contract to
install phase 2 of the secondary water meters was awarded to Newman Construction. During
the project meeting, they also discussed the renovations at the Sandra Lloyd building. The
Council will walk over to the building on Saturday during the Strategic Planning meeting and
discuss the costs involved with each of the three options for the auditorium.

Mayor Staggs said they discussed the 13400 South interchange during the project meeting.
There are also two projects for the Welby Canal and a number of projects that relate to
development which Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director, will be focusing on.

Mayor Staggs reported that he met with the Google team. They have a hut secured and have lit
up 3 of 25 sections and 90% of the engineering is complete. They should have most of the City
connected by the end of the year.

Councilmember Wells said he would like to complete the ordinance enforcement issue. Mayor
Staggs also said a water ordinance that needs to be completed.
Page | 4 Minutes – City Council Meeting
January 17, 2023




Councilmember Buroker reported that she attended the UFA meeting. During the meeting, she
was given a list of all of the fire stations. She said the main thing that was discussed during the
meeting was the closure of the Bluffdale station on the west side. Chief Burchett indicated there
was a budget issue with this station. They anticipate being able to cover the needs of this area
with Stations 121, 123 and 124. This is not a long-term solution but they want to do this for a
few months. Bluffdale is working to make this an ambulance station. They are set to have a
public hearing in the month of February for their new budget and are planning to move to four-
man fire trucks.

Mayor Staggs asked for a resolution on the next agenda appointing Councilmember Buroker as
a representative for Riverton City on the UFA Board.

Councilmember McDougal asked if the additional 50 officers in the UFA budget included the
officers from the Bluffdale station. Mayor Staggs answered that Bluffdale is not part of UFA
which means they are not contributing to UFA, however, they are using officers from Stations
121, 123 and 124.

Councilmember McDougal reported that Transjordan had a board meeting this coming
Thursday. He asked if Google fiber is bringing areas of Riverton online piece by piece. Cary
Necaise, Public Works Director, said it is a balancing act and Google fiber said they should be
able to provide service within 45 days once they are finished with a neighborhood.

Councilmember McCay said it is good to see the maps of Google online so she can refer her
residents to this site. She said she is interested in having residents in her district complete the
CERT training and there is not currently a CERT training in Riverton. She would like to have a
map of Riverton showing what residents have completed the CERT training. She would also
like Jason Jones to come and give an update on what is happening with emergency
management. Mr. Saxton said that Jason Jones is planning on talking to the Red Cross about
hosting a CERT training in Riverton.

Councilmember Pierucci said that Hello Sugar called him and invited everyone to the VIP next
Thursday, February 26 and the grand opening on Friday, February 27.

Mayor Staggs asked Ms. Larsen to add a resolution appointing Councilmember Pierucci as a
representative of Riverton on the South Valley Chamber.

Mayor Staggs reviewed the remainder of the agenda for the City Council meeting.

Councilmember McCay asked that the library policy included on the consent agenda specify “on
City property.”


Adjournment of Work Session

Councilmember Wells MOVED to adjourn the Work Session. Councilmember Buroker
SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for a vote; the vote was as follows: Buroker-Yes,
McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Pierucci-Yes and Wells-Yes. The motion passed unanimously. The
Work Session adjourned at 6:41 PM.
Page | 5 Minutes – City Council Meeting
January 17, 2023



COUNCIL MEETING – 7:00 PM

Call to Order

Mayor Staggs called the Riverton City Council Meeting to order at 7:02 PM and conducted a roll
call. Councilmembers Buroker, McCay, McDougal, Pierucci and Wells were present.

Prayer / Pledge of Allegiance

Mayor Staggs offered the invocation and Chief Hutson led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Citizen Comment

Mayor Staggs called for public comments; there being none, he closed the Public Comment
period.

Discussion/Action Items

         Election of Mayor Pro Tem

Councilmember Wells nominated Councilmember McDougal to be the Mayor Pro Tempore.
Councilmember McCay seconded this nomination. Mayor Staggs called for a vote; the vote was
as follows: Buroker-Yes, McCay-Yes, McDougal-Yes, Pierucci-Yes and Wells-Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

Mayor/Council Reports

Councilmember Buroker – No Report.

Councilmember Pierucci reported that he would be meeting with UTA who had reached out to
him concerning the needs in his district.

Councilmember McDougal – No Report.

Councilmember McCay reported it was great to go with the youth council and get to know them
better. She thanked them for their service.

Councilmember Wells reported that Craig White was retiring from South Valley Sewer and his
replacement will be Joel Thompson. He reported that the Associated Municipal Councils talked
about growth in the southwest valley being 33%, the highest of anywhere else in the valley.
However, there is still no public transportation through UTA. He also reported that he attended
the South Valley Chamber meeting. The South Valley Chamber added 85 new members last
year and has 23 representatives on the Board.

Mayor Staggs thanked the Councilmembers for their service on various boards. He said the
Youth Council event at the capitol was worthwhile and he appreciates their service. The
legislative session starts today and runs for 45 days. He plans to meet with legislative
representatives on February 1 and 22.

Mayor Staggs said there is a link to the Google Fiber system on the Riverton City website. They
have installed and completed 3 out of 25 areas. By the end of the year, most residents will have
Page | 6 Minutes – City Council Meeting
January 17, 2023




access to Google Fiber.


Presentations/Recognitions

         Riverton Police Department Presentation

Chief Don Hutson presented on the Riverton Police Department. He said he is happy to help
add substance to the RLESA meetings. He reviews statistics and looks for trends in a good or
bad direction. This dictates where they will deploy manpower and where they will want to pay
attention. The statistics are very consistent from one year to another. His presentation is
included in the packet.

Councilmembers asked clarifying questions and thanked Chief Hutson for his presentation.

Consent Items

Mayor Staggs presented the following Consent Agenda:

    a. Minute Approval: January 3, 2023;
    b. Resolution No. 23-01 – Appointing Volunteer Members to the Riverton City Events
       and Inclusion Committee;
    c. Resolution No. 23-02 – Warranty Bond Release for Craig with Lane Subdivision
       (7402);
    d. Resolution No. 23-03 – Warranty Bond Release for Royal Farms Phase 2 (896); and
    e. Resolution No. 23-04 – Adopting Policies for Management of Donation Library on City
       Property.

Mayor Staggs asked Broc Stowe if he wanted to introduce himself. Mr. Stowe introduced
himself to the Councilmembers and said he was looking forward to serving on the Events and
Inclusion Committee.

Councilmember McCay asked that Item (e) be removed from the consent agenda.

Councilmember McCay MOVED that the City Council approve the Consent Agenda with
the removal of Item (e). Councilmember McDougal SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs
called for discussion on the motion. Mayor Staggs called for a roll-call vote. The vote was as
follows: Buroker-yes, McCay-yes, McDougal-yes, Pierucci and Wells-yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

         Resolution No. 23-04 – Adopting Policies for Management of Donation Library on
         City Property

Councilmember McCay asked clarifying questions about the Library Policy.

Councilmember McCay MOVED that the City Council approve Resolution No. 23-04 –
Adopting Policies for Management of Donation Library on City Property with the
addition of the language “on city property.” Councilmember Wells SECONDED the
motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion. Mayor Staggs called for a roll-call
vote. The vote was as follows: Buroker-yes, McCay-yes, McDougal-yes, Pierucci and Wells-
yes. The motion passed unanimously.
Page | 7 Minutes – City Council Meeting
January 17, 2023



Public Hearings

         Ordinance No. 23-01 – Code Amendment – Updating and Consolidating Section
         18.90.010, Table of Commercial Uses

Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director, explained this was a public hearing for a
proposed Text Amendment to adjust Riverton City’s Table of Commercial Uses. This proposal
does not make substantial changes to current policy or practice. The goal of this proposal is to
make it easier for customers, City officials, and city staff to identify land uses in the City’s
Commercial Zones. To achieve this goal, staff identified these objectives:

    1. Place all Commercial Zones in one Table of Uses;
    2. Eliminate categories in the Table of Uses that overlap, are defined elsewhere or are no
       longer relevant; and
    3. Add categories to address frequent questions or ongoing issues.

Mayor Staggs called for public comments; there being none, he closed the Public Hearing.

Councilmember McDougal MOVED that the Riverton City Council adopt Ordinance No. 23-
01 – Code Amendment – Updating and Consolidating Section 18.90.010, Table of
Commercial Uses as described in Exhibit “A” with the following condition: 1. Keep
landscaping services as permitted use in the C-R zone and 2. Add a reference table to
the different zonings. Councilmember Pierucci SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called
for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a roll-call vote. The vote was as
follows: Buroker-yes, McCay-yes, McDougal-yes, Pierucci-yes and Wells-yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

         Ordinance No. 23-02 – Amendment to the Moderate Income Housing Element of
         Riverton City General Plan, Updating the Moderate Income Housing Element
         Language Consistent with Utah State Code 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii)

Mr. Lethbridge explained that Riverton City must submit a report each year to the State of Utah
regarding the Moderate Income Housing Element of the Riverton City General Plan, specifically
regarding strategies contained in Utah State Code for cities to utilize. The language of those
strategies was amended slightly in the 2022 Utah State Code, and Riverton City, among many
other jurisdictions, is required to amend the corresponding language in its Moderate Income
Housing Element prior to acceptance of the required reporting. This must be completed before
February 2023.

Mr. Lethbridge said as Riverton City will be conducting an update to the Moderate Income
Housing Element in the coming year, and as the required correction is minor and technical
rather than substantive, the amendment is being done as a clarifying ordinance rather than a full
rewrite of the Element itself. This has been reviewed by Riverton City Attorney and by the State
of Utah, who determined that the update satisfied the requirements of the Notice of Non-
Compliance.

Mayor Staggs called for public comments; there being none, he closed the Public Hearing.

Councilmember Buroker MOVED that the Riverton City Council adopt Ordinance No. 23-02
– Amendment to the Moderate Income Housing Element of Riverton City General Plan,
Updating the Moderate Income Housing Element Language Consistent with Utah State
Page | 8 Minutes – City Council Meeting
January 17, 2023



Code 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii). Councilmember McCay SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs
called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a roll-call vote. The vote
was as follows: Buroker-yes, McCay-yes, McDougal-yes, Pierucci-yes and Wells-yes. The
motion passed unanimously.

Upcoming Meetings

    a.   January 21, 2023 – Strategic Planning Meeting
    b.   February 7, 2023 - Work Session & City Council Meeting
    c.   February 8, 2023 – State of the City & Awards Ceremony
    d.   February 21, 2023 – Work Session & City Council Meeting
    e.   March 6, 2023 – Work Session & City Council Meeting

Closed Session

    a. Discussion of the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an
       individual.
    c. Discussion of the sale, purchase, exchange or lease of real property, including any form
       of a water rights or water share.

At 7:57 PM, Councilmember McDougal MOVED to convene again in a Closed Session to
discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual
and the sale, purchase, exchange or lease of real property, including any form of a water rights
or water share. Councilmember McDougal also MOVED to adjourn the City Council meeting at
the conclusion of the Closed Session. Councilmember Wels SECONDED the motion. Mayor
Staggs called for discussion on the motion. There being none, he called for a roll-call vote. The
vote was as follows: Buroker-yes, McCay-yes, McDougal-yes, Pierucci-yes and Wells-yes. The
motion passed unanimously.

The City Council meeting resumed in a Closed Session at 8:05 PM. Minutes for the Closed
Session were taken and recorded and are now on file as a Protected Record.

Councilmember McDougal MOVED to adjourn the Closed Session at 8:56 PM. Councilmember
Pierucci SECONDED the motion. Mayor Staggs called for discussion on the motion. Mayor
Staggs called for a roll-call vote. The vote was as follows: Buroker-yes, McCay-yes, McDougal-
yes, Pierucci-yes, and Wells-yes. The motion passed unanimously.

Adjournment

As previously noted, Councilmember McDougal MOVED to adjourn the City Council Meeting at
the conclusion of the Closed Session. Councilmember Wells SECONDED the motion. All voted
in favor and the motion passed unanimously. The meeting adjourned at 8:56 PM.

Approved: Pending
