                                  Cash Receipts and Deposit Policy

                     Effective Date:
                     Reviewed / Revised:

A. PURPOSE

   The purpose of this policy is to establish a uniform cash control design for all departments of Riverton City who
   receive funds that are easy to distribute and promote within the City. This policy has been developed by the
   Administrative Services Department and approved by the Riverton City Council. The purpose of this policy is to
   expand upon the duties of the Treasurer as outlined in state of Utah Code (Title 10 Chapter 6) and City Code
   (2.30.020). Riverton City Code supersedes any inconsistencies between this policy and City Code. The policy will
   be reviewed and updated periodically to reflect changes in systems, organizational structure, or best practices.
   Proposed changes will be submitted by staff to City Council.

B. CASH RECEIPTS AT SEPARATE INDIVIDUAL LOCATIONS

   1. Recording Receipts

           a. All funds received must be entered into the accounting system at the time of the transaction.

           b. If the accounting system is not available at a location, funds must be logged into a pre-numbered
              receipt book and submitted to the City Treasurer.

                    i. Manual receipt books must have three copies: Customer copy, Treasurer copy, and Location
                       copy.

                   ii. A log of all prenumbered receipt books will be maintained by the City Treasurer.

   2. End-of-Day Close-Out

           a. At the end of each business day each responsible employee must reconcile their cash drawer with
              the system-generated report.

           b. Cash, checks, and any credit card slips (if applicable) must be placed in a deposit bag with supporting
              reports, if reports are not electronically available to the City Treasurer.

           c. The deposit bag must be delivered to the Treasurer’s office or placed in a secure, locked location
              approved by the City Treasurer no later than the following business day.

   3. Voids and Adjustments

           a. Only employees approved by the City Treasurer may process voids or adjustments. Two employees
              must sign off on the adjustment/void, documenting the reason.

           b. For manual receipts, all copies of the voided receipt must be retained.

           c. The system must generate a report of all voided/adjusted transactions for monitoring.

   4. Large Cash Balances
Cash Receipts and Deposit Policy                                                                            Page 2



                 a. Large amounts of cash should not remain onsite overnight, unless bank overnight drop is
                    unavailable. Regardless of the amount, cash should be secured at all times.

                 b. Deposits exceeding $1,000 in cash should be made the same day.

                 c. All sites must inform the City Treasurer of large deposits and coordinate pickup on the same day.

        5. Deposits with Treasurer’s Office

                 a. Deposits from all sites must be made with the Treasurer or designee on the same day or the next
                    business day.

                 b. Deposits may be dropped in the Treasurer’s safe or handed to the Treasurer or designee.

        6. Treasurer’s Role

                 a. The Treasurer or designee enters deposits into the accounting system and transports funds to the
                    bank.

                 b. All other duties as assigned in City Code for the Treasurer.

        7. Surveillance Requirements

                 a. Offices receiving funds must maintain surveillance systems.

        8. Mail Payments

                 a. Mail must be opened in the presence of two or more employees.

                 b. Payments must be made and processed by approved staff.


   C. DEPOSITS WITH TREASURER

        1. Receipt of Deposits

                 a. Treasurer or designee will count funds, verify amounts against documentation, and reconcile any
                    variances with departments.

        2. Recording Deposits

                 a. The Treasurer or designee will enter deposit information into the accounting system.

        3. Daily Deposit Reconciliation

                 a. Each day the Treasurer or designee will:

                            i. Compile all receipts,

                           ii. Reconcile totals with the accounting system, and

                           iii. Prepare a detailed bank deposit slip.
Cash Receipts and Deposit Policy                                                                               Page 3



                 b. Deposit slips must allow funds to be traced back to specific locations and transactions.

        4. Documentation Retention

                 a. Copies of deposit slips must be retained and used for bank reconciliations. Copies may be retained
                    electronically by the City’s banking system.

                 b. Documentation of supporting entries should be retained in the City’s ERP system or depositing bank.


   D. BANKING, CREDIT CARD, AND FINANCIAL SYSTEMS

        1. Banking System

                 a. The Treasurer will coordinate banking services and will be the designated contact in case of any
                    issues.

                            i. The Director of Administrative Services or other designated employee may act as backup in
                               the event the Treasurer is unavailable.

                 b. The Treasurer will be responsible to coordinate bidding our banking services, as required.

                 c. All services should be reviewed periodically and approved by the Treasurer.

                 d. ACH, check, or credit limits for banking services will be reviewed and recommended by the
                    Treasurer annually.

                 e. Access to the City’s banking systems should be approved by the City Treasurer and limited based on
                    need.

                            i. Accounting system superusers cannot be check signers with the City’s banking system.

        2. Credit Card Providers

                 a. The Director of Administrative Services and Treasurer should approve all credit card processors.

                 b. The Treasurer should have access to all payment platforms including credit card providers to allow
                    for proper reconciliations, deposits, and recording of fees.

        3. Financial Systems

                 a. The Treasurer should have access to the City’s financial ERP system to perform necessary job duties.

                 b. A separate employee from the Treasurer should perform bank reconciliations.

                 c. All entries made by the Treasurer should be approved by the Director of Administrative Services or
                    another assigned staff member.
