   5,9(5721&,7<&25325$7,21

5HSRUWRQ,QWHUQDO&RQWURODQG&RPSOLDQFH
                   $QG
      8WDK6WDWH&RPSOLDQFH5HSRUW

        <HDU(QGHG-XQH
                                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS


Independent Auditors’ Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
       and on Compliance and Other Matters Based on an Audit of Financial Statements
       Performed in Accordance with Government Auditing Standards ................................................. 1-2

Independent Auditors’ Report on Compliance and Report on Internal Control Over Compliance
       As Required by The Utah State Compliance Audit Guide ............................................................ 3-5

Schedule of Findings and Responses ............................................................................................................ 6
                                           COMMIT TED. EXPERIENCED. TRUSTED




CERTIFIED PUBL IC
A C C O U N TA N T S
                            INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
                           FINANCIAL REPORTING AND ON COMPLIANCE AND OTHER MATTERS
E. LYNN HANSEN, CPA
                             BASED ON AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMED IN
                                ACCORDANCE WITH GOVERNMENT AUDITING STANDARDS
CLARKE R. BRADSHAW, CPA
GARY E. MALMROSE, CPA
                          Honorable Mayor and Members of the City Council
EDWIN L. ERICKSON, CPA
                          Riverton City Corporation
MICHAEL L. SMITH, CPA
JASON L. TANNER, CPA      We have audited, in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
ROBERT D. WOOD, CPA       States of America and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in
AARON R. HIXSON, CPA      Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States,
TED C. GARDINER, CPA      the financial statements of the governmental activities, the business-type activities, each
JEFFREY B. MILES, CPA     major fund, and the aggregate remaining fund information of Riverton City Corporation
DONALD M. JACK, CPA       (the City) as of and for the year ended June 30, 2019, and the related notes to the
                          financial statements, which collectively comprise the City’s basic financial statements,
                          and have issued our report thereon dated November 22, 2019.

                          Internal Control over Financial Reporting

                          In planning and performing our audit of the financial statements, we considered the
                          City’s internal control over financial reporting (internal control) to determine the audit
                          procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of expressing our
                          opinions on the financial statements, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on
                          the effectiveness of the City’s internal control. Accordingly, we do not express an
                          opinion on the effectiveness of the City’s internal control.

                          A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not
                          allow management or employees in the normal course of performing their assigned
                          functions, to prevent, or detect and correct misstatements on a timely basis. A material
                          weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control, such that
                          there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the City’s financial
                          statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. A significant
                          deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less
                          severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those
                          charged with governance.

                          Our consideration of internal control over financial reporting was for the limited purpose
                          described in the first paragraph of this section and was not designed to identify all
                          deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting that might be material weaknesses
                          or significant deficiencies and, therefore, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies
                          may exist that were not identified. Given these limitations, during our audit we did not
                          identify any deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting that we consider to be
                          material weaknesses. However, material weaknesses may exist that have not been
                          identified.
  559 WEST 500 SOUT H BOUN TIFUL, UT 84010            //    O: 801.296.0200        //   F : 8 0 1 . 2 9 6 .1 2 1 8   //   HBME.COM

                                   HBME, LLC IS A CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


                                                                        1
Compliance and Other Matters

As part of obtaining reasonable assurance about whether the City’s financial statements
are free from material misstatement, we performed tests of its compliance with certain
provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements, noncompliance with
which could have a direct and material effect on the determination of financial statement
amounts. However, providing an opinion on compliance with those provisions was not an
objective of our audit and, accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. The results of
our tests did not disclose instances of noncompliance that are required to be reported
under Government Auditing Standards, and which is described in the accompanying
schedule of findings and responses as item 2019-1.

Riverton City’s Response to Finding

The City’s response to the finding identified in our audit is described in the
accompanying schedule of findings and responses. The City’s response is not subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the financial statements and,
accordingly, we express no opinion on it.

Purpose of this Report

The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control
and compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the
effectiveness of the City’s internal control or on compliance. This report is an integral
part of an audit performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards in
considering the City’s internal control and compliance. Accordingly, this communication
is not suitable for any other purpose.

HBME, LLC
November 22, 2019




                                             2
                                         COMMIT TED. EXPERIENCED. TRUSTED




CERTIFIED PUBL IC                INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT ON COMPLIANCE AND
A C C O U N TA N T S               REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER COMPLIANCE
                                  AS REQUIRED BY THE STATE COMPLIANCE AUDIT GUIDE
E. LYNN HANSEN, CPA
CLARKE R. BRADSHAW, CPA   Honorable Mayor and Members of the City Council
GARY E. MALMROSE, CPA     Riverton City Corporation
EDWIN L. ERICKSON, CPA
MICHAEL L. SMITH, CPA     Report on Compliance with State Compliance Audit Requirements
JASON L. TANNER, CPA
ROBERT D. WOOD, CPA
                          We have audited Riverton City Corporation’s (the City) compliance with the applicable
AARON R. HIXSON, CPA
                          state compliance requirements described in the State Compliance Audit Guide, issued
                          by the Office of the State Auditor, that could have a direct and material effect on the
TED C. GARDINER, CPA
                          City for the year ended June 30, 2019.
JEFFREY B. MILES, CPA
DONALD M. JACK, CPA
                          State compliance requirements were tested for the year ended June 30, 2019 in the
                          following areas:

                                  Budgetary Compliance                             Public Treasurer’s Bond
                                  Fund Balance                                     Enterprise Fund Transfers,
                                  Justice Courts                                   Reimbursements, Loans, and
                                  Utah Retirement Systems                          Services
                                  Restricted Taxes and Related                     Tax Levy Revenue Recognition
                                  Revenues                                         Impact Fees
                                  Open and Public Meetings Act

                          Management’s Responsibility

                          Management is responsible for compliance with the state requirements referred to
                          above.

                          Auditor’s Responsibility

                          Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the City’s compliance based on our audit
                          of the state compliance requirements referred to above. We conducted our audit of
                          compliance in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
                          States of America; the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government
                          Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States; and the
                          State Compliance Audit Guide. Those standards and the State Compliance Audit Guide
                          require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
                          noncompliance with the state compliance requirements referred to above that could
                          have a direct and material effect on a state compliance requirement occurred. An audit
                          includes examining, on a test basis, evidence about the City’s compliance with those
                          requirements and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
                          circumstances.

  559 WEST 500 SOUT H BOUN TIFUL, UT 84010           //   O: 801.296.0200     //    F : 8 0 1 . 2 9 6 .1 2 1 8   //   HBME.COM

                                HBME, LLC IS A CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

                                                                    3
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion on compliance for
each state compliance requirement referred to above. However, our audit does not
provide a legal determination of the City’s compliance with those requirements.

Opinion on Compliance

In our opinion, the City complied, in all material respects, with the state compliance
requirements referred to above for the year ended June 30, 2019.

Other Matters

The results of our auditing procedures disclosed an instance of noncompliance, which is
required to be reported in accordance with the State Compliance Audit Guide and which
is described in the accompanying schedule of findings and responses as item 2019-1.
Our opinion on compliance is not modified with respect to this matter.

The City’s response to the noncompliance finding identified in our audit is described in
the accompanying schedule of findings and responses. The City’s response was not
subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of compliance and,
accordingly, we express no opinion on the response.

Report on Internal Control Over Compliance

Management of The City is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective
internal control over compliance with the state compliance requirements referred to
above. In planning and performing our audit of compliance, we considered The City’s
internal control over compliance with the state compliance requirements referred to
above to determine the audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances for
the purpose of expressing an opinion on compliance with those state compliance
requirements and to test and report on internal control over compliance in accordance
with the State Compliance Audit Guide, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of internal control over compliance. Accordingly, we do
not express an opinion on the effectiveness of The City’s internal control over
compliance.

A deficiency in internal control over compliance exists when the design or operation of
a control over compliance does not allow management or employees, in the normal
course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or to detect and correct
noncompliance with a state compliance requirement on a timely basis. A material
weakness in internal control over compliance is a deficiency, or combination of
deficiencies, in internal control over compliance, such that there is a reasonable
possibility that material noncompliance with a state compliance requirement will not be
prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. A significant deficiency in
internal control over compliance is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in
internal control over compliance with a state compliance requirement that is less severe
than a material weakness in internal control over compliance, yet important enough to
merit attention by those charged with governance.




                                           4
Our consideration of internal control over compliance was for the limited purpose
described in the first paragraph of this section and was not designed to identify all
deficiencies in internal control over compliance that might be material weaknesses or
significant deficiencies. We did not identify any deficiencies in internal control over
compliance that we consider to be material weaknesses. However, material weaknesses
may exist that have not been identified.

Purpose of This Report

The purpose of this report on internal control over compliance is solely to describe the
scope of our testing of internal control and compliance and the results of that testing
based on the requirements of the State Compliance Audit Guide. Accordingly, this
report is not suitable for any other purpose.

HBME, LLC
November 22, 2019




                                           5
                           RIVERTON CITY CORPORATION
                           Schedule of Findings and Responses
                            For the Year Ended June 30, 2019

State Compliance Finding

Requirement/Program        Current Year Findings

2019-1 Open and Public
       Meetings Act        Finding: State law, Utah Code 52-4-203(4)(e), requires that the City
                           Council minutes be posted to the Utah Public Notice Website within
                           three business days after being approved by City Council. We noted that
                           various meeting minutes were not posted within three business days after
                           their approval.

                           Recommendation: The City should implement better procedures to
                           ensure all City Council meeting minutes are posted to the Utah Public
                           Notice Website within three business days after approval by City Council
                           to comply with State Code.

                           Management’s      Response:    Management    has    implemented
                           additional procedures to ensure all City Council meeting minutes
                           are posted as required.




                                              6
