                                      CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA

                                                  January 31, 2023
                                             12830 South Redwood Road,
                                                 Riverton, UT 84065

Riverton City Meeting nformation
The City Council Meeting will be conducted as a hybrid meeting with in person attendance and audio/video of
the meeting broadcast live via the City Meetings link. Accompanying agenda documents will be available for
public review through the City website prior to the meeting and audio/written minutes will be available following
the meeting. Citizen comment may be submitted via email to recorder@rivertonutah.gov or at e-comments at
City Meetings. All comments submitted by noon on the date of the meeting will be relayed to the City Council.

1.    COUNCIL MEETING - 4:55 PM

2.    Call to Order

3.    Closed Session
          a. Discussion of the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an
             individual
          b. Strategy session to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
          c. Strategy session to discuss the sale, purchase, exchange or lease of real property,
             including any form of a water rights or water share

4.    Adjournment

Riverton City Hall is an ADA compliant facility. Individuals needing special accommodations or assistance during this meeting
shall notify the City Recorder’s Office at 801-208-3126 at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Accessible parking and
entrance is located on the south end of the building with elevator access to the Council Chambers located on the second floor.

                                                      Certificate of Posting
I, Jamie Larsen, Riverton City Recorder, certify that, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting, the foregoing Agenda was emailed
to the Salt Lake Tribune, Deseret News and the Riverton Journal. A copy of the Agenda was also posted at Riverton City Hall,
on Riverton City’s Website at www.rivertonutah.gov, and on the Utah Public Meeting Notice Website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

Dated January 31, 2023




                                                                                                                                  1
