                                     AGREEMENT FOR
                               RESIDENTIAL WASTE SERVICES


This Agreement for Residential Waste Services (“Agreement”) is entered into this _____ day of
________ 2023, by and between Waste Management of Utah, Inc., a Utah corporation (“WM”) and
Riverton City, a municipality and political subdivision of the State of Utah, by and through its City
Mayor (the “City”).

In consideration of the mutual covenants and conditions hereinafter to be fully kept and performed, the
parties hereby agree as follows:

1. Definitions. The parties hereby agree that the following words and terms when used herein shall be
   defined as follows:

   1.1. Approved containers: Approved containers consist of 95-gallon Carts for mixed waste and 95-
        gallon Carts for recyclables; and 6-yard and 3-yard Bins for mixed waste for City facilities and
        park locations designated by the City.

   1.2. Bin: A watertight metal or heavy plastic receptacle with a hinged plastic lid and a capacity of
        3 or 6 cubic yards, designed or intended to be mechanically dumped into a packer type truck.

   1.3. Cart: A watertight heavy plastic receptacle with a rated capacity of approximately 95 gallons,
        having a hinged, tight-fitting lid, and two wheels.

   1.4. City: Riverton City.

   1.5. Commercial solid waste: Garbage, rubbish, trash, food waste, etc., resulting from the normal
        activities of commercial users.

   1.6. Commercial users: An enterprise, not a residence, such as a business, association,
        corporation, manufacturer, hotel, motel, resort, governmental entity, church, etc.

   1.7. Mixed waste: Means municipal solid waste as defined in the Utah Code, Section 19-6-
        509(1)(a).

   1.8. Recyclables: The materials defined as such in Exhibit A.

   1.9. Residential Unit: An occupied dwelling unit such as a single-family house or trailer, or multi-
        family residential unit of four (4) dwelling units or less units; this may include private
        communities if they desire the designated services. Each unit of a multi-family dwelling shall
        be considered a separate residence of purposes of billing. Communities and developments
        that contract though their homeowner’s association for mixed waste collection are not exempt
        from participating in the citywide collection program. A dwelling unit is not occupied if the
        persons living therein are absent for over 90 days, or absent for 30 continuous days after
        notice to the City whichever period is shorter.

   1.10.     Roll-off: An all-metal container with ten (10) cubic yards or more capacity that is
       loaded onto a specialized collection vehicle.

                                        Page 1 of 19
   1.11.     WM: The corporation performing residential recycling and solid waste collection and
       disposal services, and related services under contract with the City, herein identified as Waste
       Management of Utah, Inc.

   1.12.       Unacceptable waste: Any waste tires, radioactive, volatile, corrosive, flammable,
       explosive, biomedical, infectious, bio-hazardous, regulated medical or hazardous waste, toxic
       substance or material, as defined by, characterized, or listed under applicable federal, state, or
       local laws or regulations, any materials containing information protected by federal, state or
       local privacy and security laws or regulations, or any material the acceptance or handling of
       which would cause a violation of any applicable law, damage to WM’s equipment of facilities,
       or present a substantial endangerment to the health or safety of the public or WM’s
       employees. Title to and liability for unacceptable waste shall remain with the generator at all
       times.

2. Scope of work. WM shall provide all work under this Agreement, which shall consist of all the
   supervision, materials, equipment, labor and all other items necessary to complete weekly curbside
   collection of mixed waste and every other week collection and processing of recyclables, from all
   existing and future residential units in the City as herein defined; and a weekly or bi-weekly
   collection of mixed waste for City facilities and park locations designated by the City. Mixed
   waste will be delivered to the Trans Jordan Landfill; the City will pay all disposal fees. Work
   under this Agreement also includes collection of mixed waste and recyclables in 95 gallon Carts
   from all City parks and facilities designated by Riverton City, at no cost to the City. WM shall also
   provide document shredding services, dumpster services and glass recycling collection services as
   itemized in Section 7.1 of this Agreement.

   2.1. Collection Equipment: WM agrees to provide an adequate number of vehicles approved by
        the City for regular collection services. Vehicles and equipment used by WM shall be kept in
        good condition and repair, good appearance, and in a sanitary condition at all times. Vehicles
        shall be maintained properly at all times to: reduce unnecessary noise; prevent leaking oil or
        hydraulic fluids; and to ensure safe operations on City streets. Vehicles shall also be properly
        inspected and meet all State and local requirements applicable to such vehicles.

       In addition, each vehicle utilized in the performance of this Agreement shall be equipped, at a
       minimum, but not limited to, with the following: operable safety equipment, back up camera,
       back up alarm, safety triangles, flashers, and tire chains. Each vehicle shall have clearly visible
       on each side the name of WM and a vehicle identification number.

       City shall provide all containers regarding WM services to Residential Units and City parks
       (i.e., 95 gallon mixed waste Carts and 95 gallon recyclables Carts). WM shall provide 3 and 6
       yard bins for use at City facilities.

   2.2. Equipment List. WM agrees to furnish the City with a list indicating the vehicles assigned
        primarily to the City for waste services. WM shall provide these vehicles and equipment,
        including loading arms, designed and maintained in such a manner so as to not gouge, scrape,
        crush, peel or otherwise damage City provided containers beyond ordinary wear and tear. It
        should be expected that there will be some scraping, etc. of containers during the collection
        process.


                                        Page 2 of 19
2.3. Spillage. All solid waste hauled by WM shall be contained or enclosed to prevent leaking,
     spilling or blowing of the solid waste. In the event of any dumping, spillage, or leaking, WM
     shall immediately clean up the litter or spill, except when it results from Overage. WM shall
     immediately clean up any fluid leaks emanating from WM’s equipment, including but not
     limited to, hydraulic fluids, gas, and oil. Leakage of hydraulic fluid or motor oil will need to
     be cleaned by a professional environmental services company. Additionally, the City may
     require WM to pay for an asphalt treatment to be determined by the City to mitigate the
     aesthetic effects of a spill.

2.4. Container Management. Once WM has emptied a container, WM agrees to make all
     reasonable effort to place the containers in an appropriate container location in an upright
     position. If there is any obstacle or obstruction preventing such placement, WM shall notify
     the property owner of the obstruction. WM shall take immediate action on complaints
     regarding misplaced containers that are not a result of weather-related problems or conditions
     over which WM has no control, including snow, wind and vehicle or pedestrian traffic. WM is
     not responsible for any Cart replacement or repair costs unless WM caused the Cart damage
     during collection; WM will not be responsible for ordinary wear and tear Cart damage. Unless
     otherwise directed by the City, WM will submit warranty claims to Cart manufacturers
     regarding defective or damaged Carts.

2.5. Litter. WM shall not litter any premises in the process of making collections. However, WM
     shall not be required to collect or cleanup material that has not been placed properly in an
     approved container or in a manner provided herein. WM shall respond to complaints regarding
     spilled litter caused by WM within four business hours.

2.6. There shall be no deviations from the established schedule, except for the following days
     when Trans Jordan Landfill is closed: New Year’s Day, Independence Day, Thanksgiving
     Day, and Christmas Day. Residences scheduled for collection on these holidays shall have
     collection service for solid waste on the following business day. WM may delay collection
     one day for the following week if agreed to by WM and the City. WM shall not commence
     collection in residential areas prior to 7:00 a.m., or continue after 7:00 p.m., without prior
     consent of the City Public Works Director in case of reasonable and valid emergency. In the
     event severe weather conditions impede collection, such as heavy snow, flood, or other natural
     disaster, WM may delay collections until conditions become safe, in WM’s reasonable
     discretion. WM shall promptly notify the City and customers of such collection delays, and
     when collections will resume.

2.7. Containers provided. WM shall deliver containers to all residential units in the City. As stated
     above, the City will own all Carts and be responsible for maintaining an adequate inventory.
     City and WM may agree that WM will purchase Carts on the City’s behalf, and then sell them
     to the City. For an initial inventory, WM will sell the City 765 mixed waste Carts and 765
     recyclables Carts. The price for such initial inventory Carts is $61.20, which will be paid by
     the City by August 1, 2023. In cases where more than one dwelling unit is located in a
     residential unit, WM shall deliver containers for each dwelling unit. The City will assume no
     liabilities for the containers provided by WM (i.e. Bins) and WM agrees to protect, indemnify,
     defend and hold harmless the City and City employees from any and all claims.

2.8. Service for Disabled. WM agrees to provide, at no additional cost to City, special service for
     disabled persons or senior citizens who are unable to safely move containers. Such special

                                     Page 3 of 19
       services will be reviewed and approved by City and WM on a case-by-case basis as it
       becomes necessary.

   2.9. WM Availability. WM shall maintain a local telephone line or toll free line. WM shall have a
        clerk or answering service/device available to receive instructions from a City representative
        and to receive and process inquiries from the public during normal business hours for the term
        of the Agreement. WM shall have on duty on all collection days at least one (1) qualified
        supervisor to be in the field when the collection is being carried out, as to ensure a courteous,
        prompt, and efficient method for dealing with requests for service or missed collections.

   2.10.      Customer Records. WM will be required to record all inquires or complaints received
       using methods approved by the City and supplied by WM, and said inquiries and complaints
       shall be summarized on a monthly basis by WM and delivered to the City on a monthly basis
       or more frequently if requested by the City.

   2.11.      WM Workmanship. WM shall do all work in such a manner as not to create a
       nuisance. WM shall adequately clean up any materials spilled or blown during the course of
       collection and/or transportation operations. WM shall have no responsibility to remove or
       clean up any unacceptable items which are rejected, and which have not been handled due to
       insufficient material preparation by residents.

3. Recycling Terms and Conditions.

   3.1. Customer education. WM will provide the residents with a list of acceptable recyclables,
        including aluminum cans, tin cans, commingled plastic, newsprint, corrugated cardboard,
        magazines, etc. WM shall conduct publicity and education efforts to encourage the maximum
        level of citizen participation in recycling and waste diversion/reduction, in a form and amount
        acceptable to the City. At a minimum, WM shall have a spokesperson available for press
        interviews and public activities, develop news releases regarding the recycling program for the
        media, and prepare, print and distribute information sheets explaining the recycling program.

   3.2. Processing. Recyclable materials collected by WM must be processed at a recyclables
        processing/materials recovery facility, which has all of the required permits, issued by the
        appropriate authorities. WM must notify the City in writing of any processing facility utilized
        prior to use.

   3.3. Ownership. All recyclables placed out for collection shall be owned by, and are the
        responsibility of the occupants of the residential properties (residents), until they are collected
        by WM. Recyclables become the property and responsibility of WM upon WM’s acceptance
        and collection of said items.

   3.4. Recyclables processing. WM has total responsibility of recyclables processing and marketing,
        and shall bear any and all costs incurred therewith regardless of cause, including any residue
        that may occur during the process. WM shall maintain accurate records, in a format as
        approved by the City, indicating the tonnage by type of the recyclables collected and delivered
        to the processing facility under this Agreement. The records shall be kept on a daily, weekly,
        cumulative monthly and cumulative annual basis, and shall be submitted to the City upon
        request.


                                        Page 4 of 19
   3.5. Resale of recyclables. WM may retain all revenue from the sale on the recyclables that they
        collect and shall be ultimately held responsible for establishing transportation and marketing
        arrangements for the materials collected. City shall not be responsible for customer demand,
        price fluctuations for repurchase of recyclable materials by a third party, or any other event
        affecting WM’s right or ability to sell recyclables.

   3.6. WM shall be prohibited from disposing of the recyclables collected within Riverton City at a
        landfill or other waste disposal facility without written permission of the City. Said written
        permission shall not be unreasonably withheld but should be based upon WM’s ability to
        process recyclables. City shall not be required to pay tipping fees associated with disposing of
        recyclables at a landfill.

4. Overage; Contamination.

   4.1. “Overage” is defined as (i) mixed waste or recyclables exceeding its container’s intended
        capacity such that the lid is lifted (or would be lifted if lowered) or (ii) mixed waste or
        recyclables placed on top of the container, in bags or otherwise.

   4.2. “Overage Charge” means an amount charged to customers to compensate WM for expenses
        arising from Overages, and to provide a financial incentive to customers to subscribe for the level
        of service that will allow all materials to fit within the container.

   4.3. “Contamination” refers to materials placed in a recyclables container other than recyclables.

   4.4. “Contamination Charge” means an amount charged to a customer, with reimbursement to
        WM, to compensate WM for costs to separate non-recyclables placed in recyclables
        containers, or for arranging special, unscheduled collections due to placement of non-
        recyclables in recyclables containers. Unless the City and WM agree, there shall be no
        Contamination Charge for instances of Contamination pursuant to Section 4.6.

   4.5. Roll-Out Period – Education and Outreach. During the period beginning on the commencement
        date of this Agreement and ending 180 days later (the “Roll-Out Period”), WM shall provide an
        education program designed to minimize instances of Contamination and Overage. During the
        Roll-Out Period, where WM documents that a particular customer has Contamination or
        Overage, WM shall collect the offending container (where it can be done safely and excluding
        material laying on ground) and provide an electronic notice to the customer (if such contact
        information is provided by customer) with the following information (a “Violation Notice”):
                Date of the offense;
                Description of the offense;
                If available, a photograph or video (or link to photograph or video);
                A description of the materials that are appropriate for collection in said container and a
                    link to view online with educational materials; and
                A website to obtain additional information and/or receive responses to questions the
                    customer may have.

   4.6. Post Roll-Out Period. The following shall apply after the Roll-Out Period:

      4.6.1. Contamination.


                                        Page 5 of 19
           4.6.1.1.    First and Second Occurrences. WM shall service containers with Contamination
                  except where there is visible Unacceptable Waste. WM shall provide a Violation Notice,
                  where such contact information has been provided.
           4.6.1.2.    Third and Subsequent Occurrences. WM may discontinue Recyclables collections
                  services to such customer (and remove Recyclables Cart(s) or Bin(s)) and increase the
                  customer’s Mixed Waste services (larger or additional containers). In such event, WM
                  will be paid a container fee for removal and delivery of containers, as well as the Rate in
                  Section 7.1 for the additional Mixed Waste services.

       4.6.2. Overage. WM may opt to not collect Overage, unless caused by WM spillage of non-
             overloaded containers during collection; in such event, the customer may correct the Overage
             and request that WM return to service the container (an additional fee will apply).
             Alternatively, WM may collect the container with Overage and invoice the City an Overage
             Charge in the amount set forth in Section 7.1. In either case, WM shall provide a Violation
             Notice where such electronic contact information has been provided. If there have been more
             than three instances of Overage in any 12-month period for a particular service (i.e., mixed
             waste or recyclables), WM may increase the customer’s service level (i.e., larger container,
             additional container(s), or more frequent service) to mitigate the Overage, and may increase
             the charges to such customer according to the increased service level.

5.      Roll off dumpster program. Roll off dumpster program to residents will begin April 1st and run
through October 31st. 30 yard roll off Dumpsters can be reserved for Monday, Wednesday and Friday
by residents; the City will take the reservation. Dumpsters are to be delivered Monday, Wednesday
and Friday and are to be set before 5:00 PM on the scheduled day. Dumpsters are to be picked up
Monday, Wednesday and Friday and are to be picked up before 7:00 PM. The Dumpsters that are set
Monday are to be picked up Wednesday, the dumpsters that are set Wednesday are to be picked up
Friday and the dumpsters that are set Friday are to be picked up Monday.

6.      Term of Agreement. The term of this Agreement shall be from July 1, 2023 through June 30,
2028 with one (1) five year option to renew, upon mutual agreement of the parties, which could extend
the Agreement through June 30, 2033. Except as otherwise provided in Section 8 (Force Majeure), the
failure of either party to perform a material obligation under this Agreement shall be considered a
breach of this Agreement, and the breaching party shall be in default. In the event of default, the non-
defaulting party shall give written notice to the other party of the default, and the defaulting party shall
have: (i) ten (10) days from the receipt of the notice to cure any failure to pay money under this
Agreement, or (ii) thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to cure any other default under this
Agreement; provided, however, if the particular default is not reasonably capable of being cured
within 30 days, then the defaulting party will have such number of days to cure as is reasonable under
the circumstances. If the defaulting party fails to cure the breach within the allotted time, the non-
defaulting party may, at its option, immediately terminate the Agreement by written notice to the
defaulting party. In the event of a default, the defaulting party agrees to pay all damages caused by
said default, to include, without limitation reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs associated with
enforcement of this Agreement. On termination of this Agreement, all accounts and payments to date
of termination will be processed for approved services according to the financial arrangements set
forth in this document. Either party may cancel WM’s performance of Recyclables collection services
by providing advance written notification of at least 180 calendar days, without triggering any other
adjustments in pricing to this Agreement under Section 7.5, and all subsections of Section 7.5. In the
event City initiates such cancellation of Recyclables collection services, it shall be responsible for
removal of Recyclables containers.

                                         Page 6 of 19
7.      Compensation. WM shall be compensated within 30 days of receipt of a valid monthly invoice
from WM, including any requested monthly logs and service summaries. A late fee of 1.5% per month
will apply to late payments. If City disputes any portion of a WM invoice, it shall nevertheless pay in a
timely manner the undisputed amounts. Payment shall be based upon the total number of dwelling
units and containers at each dwelling unit as of the beginning of the service month being billed, as
claimed by City records and verified by WM staff on or before the 25th of the month prior to the
invoice date. The residential can maintenance described in Subsection 7.4 is assessed on the estimate
that WM will receive 41 work orders per week. Actual monthly compensation to WM for can
maintenance will be based on the then-current per action container fee, set forth in Section 7.1 below.
Disputes of numbers of dwelling units, containers, residential container maintenance work orders, or
dumpsters may be submitted in writing by WM or the City. If a dispute is submitted, an audit will be
scheduled within 30 days, where both the City and WM together can audit the disputed issue.
Adjustments, if any, shall be included in the next monthly payment. Penalty fees will be deducted
from the invoice that is supplied by WM. A written explanation of penalty will accompany the
payment.

   7.1. Rates. WM shall be compensated based on the following rates (collectively, the “Rates”):

Mixed waste, first Cart per household                               $4.22 / month
Mixed waste, additional Cart to same household                      $2.43 / month
Recycling, first Cart per household                                 See Exhibit A
Recycling, additional Cart to same household                        See Exhibit A
6 yard Bin, first Bin per location                                  $188.88 / month
6 yard Bin, additional Bin per location                             $188.88 / month
3 yard Bin, first Bin per location                                  $94.44 / month
3 yard Bin, additional Bin per location                             $94.44 / month
Roll-off                                                            $164.65 / per haul + disposal
Document Destruction Shred Day                                      $336.57 per hour
Mixed Glass Recycling                                               Free for each roll-off dumpster,
                                                                    maximum 2
Per action container fee (Section 7.4)                              $36.45. It is estimated that there
                                                                    will be 178 container maintenance
                                                                    actions per month, in which case
                                                                    the total monthly amount would be
                                                                    $6,488.10. The actual monthly
                                                                    total will be based on the actual
                                                                    number of container maintenance
                                                                    actions.
Overage Charge (Cart)                                               $5.00 (Charge will not apply the
                                                                    week of Christmas or
                                                                    Thanksgiving)


   7.2. Energy Surcharge. All Rates in 7.1 are subject to an Energy Surcharge, which will be added
        to the WM invoices. The Energy Surcharge is calculated by WM and published at
        https://www.wm.com/content/dam/wm/assets/legal/charge-tables/historical-energy-surcharge.pdf .
        Energy Surcharge amounts will be calculated at the time of invoicing based on current
        applicable percentages.

                                         Page 7 of 19
7.3. Cost of living adjustment. Commencing on July 1, 2024, and on the same date annually
     thereafter (the “Adjustment Date”), the Rates, the Recycling Rate (Exhibit A), and the
     Processing Fee (Exhibit A) shall be increased by an amount equal to the then-current amount
     multiplied by one hundred percent (100%) of the percentage change of the average Consumer
     Price Index, series CUUR0000SEHG CPI-U Water and Sewer and Trash Collection Services,
     US City Average, not seasonally adjusted, as published by the United States Department of
     Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics (“CPI-U”) from the 12-month period beginning the next
     previous March to the average CPI-U for the 12-month period ending the previous March.
     Provided that adequate supporting information has been submitted by WM, the annual
     adjustment to rates shall be deemed approved and shall take effect as outlined in this section.
     Regardless of any CPI-U averages above, the Cost of Living adjustment will not exceed 5%.

7.4. Residential Can Maintenance. The City will maintain an inventory of containers and container
     parts, meaning it will purchase containers and container parts from either WM or State
     Contract. If purchased from State Contract, the City will have the carts delivered directly to
     WM and the City will pay WM a 4% handling fee, (4% of the cost of the carts), If purchased
     from WM, the WM price will include the 4% handling fee. Carts and parts will be purchased
     as necessary to support WM’s maintenance of the City’s residential container inventory. WM
     will repair existing containers, deliver new or replacement cans and remove and/or repair
     existing or broken containers. The City will provide a daily list of requests for maintenance, in
     an agreed upon electronic/digital format, to enable WM to perform work under this
     subsection. WM will deliver, remove and/or repair/replace all items identified on lists
     provided by the City within two (2) working days after receipt of same. On a monthly basis,
     WM shall provide City with an inventory count of containers and container parts to enable the
     City to order containers and container parts needed for ongoing maintenance of residential
     containers. In order to maintain continuity of carts and ease of processing warranties, any
     change in cart manufacturer must be mutually agreed upon from the current cart manufacturer,
     Cascade.

7.5. Extraordinary Rate Adjustments. The Rates, the Recycling Rate, and the Processing Fee are
     calculated to pay certain expenses and costs that are of a contingent and uncertain nature.
     Therefore, in addition to the annual cost of living adjustment, WM’s rates shall, upon written
     request of WM, be further adjusted on an interim basis for increased expenses or reduced
     revenue associated with performance of the services hereunder due to any one or more of the
     following causes:

   7.5.1. Material changes resulting from an Uncontrollable Circumstance (defined in Section 8);

   7.5.2. Fees or taxes imposed specifically on WM’s services by any governmental agency
        having jurisdiction;

   7.5.3. Any change in operations mandated by City;

   7.5.4. Any change in foreign, federal, state or local laws or regulations;

   7.5.5. Any extraordinary increase in costs or decreases in revenues for disposal, processing or
        marketing of mixed waste;


                                    Page 8 of 19
       7.5.6. Any other extraordinary circumstances or causes or reasons that are not within the
            reasonable control of WM.

       If WM requests an adjustment due to the extraordinary circumstances set forth above, WM
       shall prepare a rate adjustment request setting forth its calculation of the increased costs or
       reduced revenue and accompanying rate adjustment necessary to offset such increased costs or
       reduced revenue. The City may request any and all documentation and data reasonably
       necessary to evaluate such request by Contractor, and may retain, at its own expense, an
       independent third party to audit and review such documentation and such request. If such third
       party is retained, the City shall take reasonable steps, consistent with state law, to protect the
       confidential or proprietary nature of any data or information supplied by WM. The City shall
       act within ninety (90) days of receipt of the request from WM and shall approve the request if
       reasonably sufficient supporting information is provided.

       Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the request is based upon any new or increased third party
       fees, taxes, assessments or charges changes in law, of changes in the scope of service, the City
       shall approve the interim rate adjustment, and provide its approval within such time period as
       necessary to ensure that such charges are passed on to customers by the date the same are
       effective.

8. Force Majeure. Except for the failure to make payment when due, neither party shall be in default
   for its failure to perform or delay in performance caused by an Uncontrollable Circumstance, and
   the affected party shall be excused from performance during the occurrence of such events. For
   purposes of this Agreement, “Uncontrollable Circumstances” means any act of terrorism, act of
   God, landslides, lightning, forest fires, storms, floods, typhoons, hurricanes, severe weather,
   freezing, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, other natural disasters or the imminent threat of such
   natural disasters, pandemics or epidemics, industry-wide labor or equipment shortages,
   quarantines, civil disturbances, acts of the public enemy, wars, blockades, public riots, labor unrest
   (e.g., strikes, lockouts, or other labor disturbances), acts of domestic or foreign governments or
   governmental restraint or other causes, whether of the kind enumerated or otherwise, and whether
   foreseeable or unforeseeable, that are not reasonably within the control of a party.

9. Penalties. For each and every nonperformance of the Agreement described in this Section 9, the
   sums designated below shall be deducted from the invoice that is supplied by WM under the
   provisions of the Agreement:

   9.1. Failure to clean up spilled mixed waste or recyclables and replace receptacles, the sum of One
        Hundred Dollars ($100.00), for each offense exceeding 25 per calendar quarter, will be paid to
        the City. This does not apply to instances of Overage.

   9.2. Failure or neglect to clear and resolve collection complaints (where containers have been
        placed for collection prior to 7:00 A.M.) within the next scheduled working day is One
        Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for each occurrence exceeding 25 per calendar quarter. However,
        in the event that a collection complaint (i.e., skipped mixed or recycling collection) is repeated
        at the same address three or more times within the last 12-month period, the City may
        immediately impose a fine of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the third and subsequent
        complaints without allowing WM the opportunity to avoid the fine by correcting the
        complaint within the next scheduled working day.


                                        Page 9 of 19
   9.3. Failure to repair or replace damaged Carts within five (5) working days and provide additional
        and new account Carts within two (2) working days is a One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for
        each occurrence. These penalties assume the City has supplied an adequate inventory of Carts.

   9.4. Changing the day of collection without notifying the affected premises or the City is One
        Hundred Dollars ($100.00) per day.

   9.5. Starting route collection before 7:00 a.m. is Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) for each
        occurrence.

   9.6. Failure to remove all mixed waste and recyclables by 7:00 p.m. without approval of the City -
        One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) per day.

   9.7. Failure to implement disciplinary action toward any employee requested by a City Supervisor
        or designee due to one or more of the following offenses during working hours will result in a
        penalty of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00):

       9.7.1. Intoxication.

       9.7.2. Use of loud, profane, vulgar, or obscene language.

       9.7.3. Soliciting gratuities from the public for services.

       9.7.4. Refusal to collect or handle refuse as herein required.

       9.7.5. Wanton or malicious damage of containers or receptacles.

       9.7.6. Wanton or malicious scattering or spilling of refuse.

       9.7.7. Any other willful disregard of safety or sanitary requirements.

       9.7.8. Any act constituting a public nuisance or disorderly conduct.

   9.8. Failure to deliver a reserved roll off dumpster on a scheduled delivery day by 5:00 p.m. will
        result in a penalty of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for each occurrence.

   9.9. Failure to pick up a full roll off dumpster on a scheduled pick up day by 5:00 p.m. will result
        in a penalty of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for each occurrence.

   9.10.      Failure to deliver, remove or repair residential cans within five (5) working days from
       when a list was provided by the City will result in a penalty of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00)
       for each occurrence.

   Notwithstanding penalties assessable under this Section 9, WM will not be subject to assessment
   of any penalty which is attributable to an Uncontrollable Circumstance.

10. Insurance. WM shall maintain, during the life of this Agreement, at his own expense, the
    following policies of insurance described herein.


                                        Page 10 of 19
10.1.     Comprehensive general liability insurance in the amount of One Million Five Hundred
    Thousand Dollars ($1,500,000) per occurrence, combined single limit, including property
    damage and personal injury coverage, during the effective dates of this Agreement, or any
    renewal hereof, in order to protect and save the City harmless against any and all claims for
    damage to person, persons, or property arising from the collection, transport, or delivery of
    rubbish, garbage and recyclables.

10.2.      Comprehensive automobile liability insurance with respect to both personal injuries and
    property damage in the amount of One Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,500,000)
    per occurrence with an aggregate of Three Million ($3,000,000), combined single limit, during
    the effective dates of this Agreement, or any renewal hereof.

10.3.      Worker's Compensation insurance, including Occupational Disease and Employer's
    Liability Insurance, sufficient to cover all employees in its employ during the term of this
    Agreement or any renewal thereof. Statutory amounts and coverage should be as required by
    Utah Workmen's Compensation and Occupational Disease Laws.

10.4.     All policies (except Workers Compensation) shall name City, their officers, agents, and
    employees as additional insurers. This coverage shall be reflected on the Certificates of
    Insurance.

10.5.      All policies shall carry an endorsement to the effect that the insurance company will
    provide at least thirty (30) days to the effective date written notice to the City of any
    cancellation of any such policy or policies or terms thereof. If any of the required insurance
    coverage is cancelled or lapse, the City may at the City's discretion, obtain substitute coverage
    at reasonable rates. The City may deduct the cost of such coverage, plus 10% for
    administrative charges, from any monies that are owing to WM.

10.6.      The aforesaid policies of insurance, and any others which may be necessary to comply
    herewith, shall be maintained in amounts of coverage set forth above; shall be designed to
    protect City from all claims for damages, including wrongful death claims of any kind or
    nature whatsoever which may arise from the operation of WM in the performance of this
    Agreement, whether such operations be controlled by WM or by someone either directly or
    indirectly employed by them for the purpose of accomplishing the obligation incumbent upon
    WM by the terms of the Agreement; and shall otherwise indemnify and hold said City
    harmless from all manner of claims and lawsuits; and shall provide at insurer's expense, all
    necessary legal aid, counsel, and representation.

10.7.      All of the insurance policies herein mentioned shall be issued by an insurance company
    licensed and authorized to do business in the State of Utah and shall be obtained and properly
    endorsed before any operations of WM are commenced with the City. Said policies shall
    remain in full force and effect until the expiration of the term of this Agreement or the
    completion of all duties to be performed hereunder by WM, whichever shall occur later.

10.8.      It shall be the responsibility of WM, in obtaining the aforesaid insurance coverage, to
    obtain policies which shall protect the City from any and all claims whatsoever their nature,
    regardless of the derivation.



                                    Page 11 of 19
   10.9.     WM agrees to comply with any and all State and Federal laws and statutes that have or
       may have any connection or application herewith, including but not limited to, worker's
       Compensation, Social Security, Unemployment Compensation, and Prevailing Wage Laws.

11. Bonding. WM shall execute and deliver to the City a Performance bond with a satisfactory
    corporate entity, conditioned upon the faithful performance of this Agreement. The performance
    bond shall be in the amount of $500,000.00, and shall remain in force for the term of the
    Agreement.

   11.1.      The Agreement shall not become effective until the bond has been delivered to the City
       and approved by the City Attorney. This Agreement shall be subject to termination by the
       City at any time if said bond is cancelled or the surety thereon relieved from the liability for
       any reason. The term for such performance bond shall be the same as the term of the
       Agreement.

   11.2.       Premium for the bond described above shall be paid by WM.

   11.3.      The surety on the bond shall be a duly authorized corporate surety company authorized
       to do business in the State of Utah.

12. Notice. All notices required or permitted under this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given
    if and when deposited in the United States mail, properly stamped and addressed to the party for
    whom intended at such party’s address listed below, or when delivered personally to such party. A
    party may change its address for notice hereunder by giving written notice to the other party.

   WM:                                                 City Manager
   Waste Management                                    Riverton City
   222 S. Mill Ave, #333                               12830 South Redwood Road
   Tempe, AZ 85281                                     Riverton, Utah 84065
   Attn. President

13. Indemnification, Liability and Insurance. WM shall indemnify and hold harmless the City, its
    officers, agents employees and volunteers from any and all claims arising out of the activities or
    omissions of WM, its officers, agents, employees, and others claiming through or under WM,
    including its assignees, under this Agreement. This indemnification requirement includes
    indemnification for claims for attorney’s fees, court cost and litigation expenses, of whatever type
    and amount. WM shall indemnify and hold harmless the City, its officers, agents, employees and
    volunteers from any and all claims involving worker’s compensation and claims for injuries
    occurring upon or arising from the performance of this Agreement; WM shall be solely and fully
    responsible for the payment of such claims. WM shall indemnify and defend the City, its officers,
    agents and employees from any and all administrative claims and proceedings (such as alleged
    OSHA violations and similar proceedings) brought against the City, its officers, agents, employees
    or volunteers which arise out of the performance by WM of this Agreement. WM shall be fully
    responsible for the training and equipping of its workers on the premises and for any failings in
    such training or equipment. WM shall be responsible for the costs of any safety feature or
    improvements mandated by the performance of this agreement. At all times, WM shall perform the
    services set forth in this agreement in accordance with the regulations, standards and the
    instructions of the City. Obligations under this section do not extend to claims, damages or
    liabilities resulting from the City’s negligence, breach of this Agreement or willful misconduct.

                                       Page 12 of 19
14. Assignment. This Agreement shall not be assignable except at the written consent of the parties,
    and if so assigned, shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties.

15. Relationship of Parties and No Third Party Rights. This Agreement does not create any joint
    venture partnership, undertaking or business arrangement between the parties hereto nor any rights
    or benefits to third parties. The contractual relationship between the City and WM out of this
    Agreement is one of independent WM and not agency. It is understood that WM shall not be
    deemed an employee of the City, and WM has no authority to enter into legally binding obligations
    on behalf of the City.

   15.1.      It is specifically understood by the parties that: (a) the City has no interest in or
       responsibilities for or duty to third parties as a result of this Agreement, (b) WM shall have
       full power and authority over services performed subject to the obligations of WM set forth in
       this Agreement.

16. Construction. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
    the State of Utah.

17. Integration. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the
    subject matter hereof and integrates all prior conversations, discussions or understandings of
    whatever kind or nature and may only be modified by a subsequent writing duly executed and
    approved by the parties hereto.

18. Exhibits. All Exhibits referenced by this Agreement are incorporated in this Agreement by
    reference.




                                       Page 13 of 19
EXECUTED this _____ day of _______________, 2023




________________________________
Waste Management of Utah, Inc.


STATE OF ARIZONA   )
                   :ss.
COUNTY OF MARICOPA )

The above instrument was acknowledged before me by ________________________, this ____ day of
_______________, 2023.




Notary Public
Residing in: _______________________
My commission expires: _____________



RIVERTON CITY                                         Attest:



By:    ______________________________                 _____________________________
       Mayor Trent Staggs                             City Recorder




                                      Page 14 of 19
                                         EXHIBIT A

                               PRICING FOR RECYCLING


1) DEFINITIONS. As used in this Exhibit A,

   a) “WM MRF” means WM’s recycling facility located at 3505 W. 900 South, Salt Lake
      City, Utah 84104.

   b) “Recycling Services” mean the curbside collection of Single Stream Materials from
      Single Family Customers.

   c) “Single Stream Materials” means the materials described as such in Exhibit A-1. All
      Single Stream Materials must be clean, dry, unshredded, empty, loose and unbagged.
      WM reserves the right, upon notice to City, to discontinue acceptance of any category of
      Single Stream Materials set forth above as a result of market conditions related to such
      materials and makes no representations as to the recyclability of the materials.

2) WM PRICING FOR RECYCLING SERVICES.

   a) Recycling Rate: The rate charged to Single Family Customers for Recycling Services
      shall be $2.81 per tote, per month (the “Recycling Rate”). As provided in Sections 7.3
      and 7.5 of the Agreement, the Recycling Rate is subject to adjustment.

       As provided below, on each January 1 and July 1 during the Agreement, the Recycling
       Rate is subject to a temporary (6 month) Blended Value Adjustment. Blended Value
       Adjustments will be capped at $1.24; such amount will be adjusted annually according to
       the CPI adjustment in Section 7.3 of the Agreement.

   b) Blended Value Adjustment to Recycling Rate. On each January 1 and July 1 during the
      term of the Agreement, starting on July 1, 2023, WM will calculate the Net Blended
      Value of the City’s Single Stream Materials for the previous six (6) month period. For the
      January 1 adjustment, the review period will be June – November. For the July 1
      adjustment, the review period will be December – May. Such calculation will determine
      whether there will be a Blended Value Adjustment to the Recycling Rate. The Net
      Blended Value will be determined as follows:

       i) Step 1: Calculate 6-Month Average Blended Value of Single Stream Materials
          according to the following (hypothetical values used):

 Publication                Grade             6 mo. avg.        Stream       Weighted
                                              price per ton.    percent      value
 Pulp & Paper (OBM)         Resi Fiber #56    $92.50            9.29%        $8.59
 Pulp & Paper (OBM)         OCC # 11          $123.75           37.25%       $46.10



                                     Page 15 of 19
Pulp & Paper (OBM)         Mixed Paper #     $36.92            12.98%        $4.79
                           54
Recyclingmarkets.net       Natural HDPE      $913.33           1.82%         $16.62
(SMP)
Recyclingmarkets.net       Colored HDPE      $219.17           1.76%         $3.86
(SMP)
Recyclingmarkets.net       PET               $273.33           3.52%         $9.62
(SMP)
Recyclingmarkets.net       Steel/Tin Cans    $163.83           .96%          $1.57
(SMP)
Recyclingmarkets.net       Aluminum          $1,609.17         .98%          $15.77
(SMP)                      Cans
Recyclingmarkets.net       Plastics 4 & 5    $254.17           1.26%         $3.20
(SMP)
                           Other Plastic     ($51)             3.80%         ($1.94)
                           Residue           ($51)             26.38%        ($13.45)
                           Average                             100.00%       $94.74 per ton

         (1) The 6 month average Blended Value in the above example is $94.74.

         (2) Regarding the above table, the follow applies:

            (a) “PPW” means the average of the prices issued by Fastmarkets RISI PPI Pulp
                & Paper Week for the Southwest Region, domestic price, 1st issue of the
                month retroactive to the first of the month.
            (b) “SMP” means the average price published at
                www.SecondaryMaterialsPricing.com for the Pacific NW or Houston Region
                (as determined by WM), first dated price each month, retroactive to the first of
                the month.
            (c) If Fastmarkets RISI PPI Pulp and Paper Week is no longer reflective of
                prevailing market conditions or if an alternative publication more accurately
                reflects such market conditions, then WM may substitute a commercially
                reasonable alternative publication(s) or alternate method to determine the
                price for the Recyclable.
            (d) “Actual Value” means the average price paid to or charged by the processing
                facility during the month of delivery of the Single Stream Materials, less any
                freight, customs charges, duties, or other charges paid to third parties for the
                sale of such materials.
            (e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if WM determines
                prior to the 15th of the month, that the anticipated Actual Value for any
                commodity will be more than 5% lower than the index published for such
                commodity that month, due to market conditions, WM may substitute the
                anticipated Actual Value as established on or about the 15th of the month for
                the index value that month. By way of example: The PPW published price for



                                    Page 16 of 19
           OCC#11 for November is $30.00 per ton. On or about November 15, WM
           determines that its anticipated Actual Value due to market conditions will be
           $20.00 per ton. In calculating the Blended Value, $20.00 per ton will be used
           to determine the commodity value for OCC#11 for that month.
       (f) The percentage of each material component in the City’s Single Stream
           Materials is based on the average of the eight (8) most recent quarterly
           composition audits.
       (g) WM will determine the commodity value of each material component (based
           on the list of values above), and multiply such amount by the material
           component’s percentage of the overall Single Stream Materials. Such amounts
           are then added to determine the Blended Value. The value of a material
           component may be negative.

ii) Step 2: Calculate Net Blended Value. Net Blended Value shall equal the 6-month
    average Blended Value (see Step 1) – WM’s Processing Fee for the applicable 6-
    month review period. WM’s initial Processing Fee is $123 per ton. Using the
    hypothetical amounts in Step 1 above, the Net Blended Value would be -$28.26
    ($94.74 - $123).

   (1) WM’s Processing Fee is subject to CPI and Extraordinary Rate Adjustments as
       provided in Sections 7.3 and 7.5 of the Agreement.

iii) Step 3: Calculate Blended Value Adjustment, if any.

   (1) If the Net Blended Value is -$10.00 or less, then there will be a “Blended Value
       Adjustment” to the Recycling Rate, as follows: New Recycling Rate for 6 month
       period only = Recycling Rate + ((Net Blended Value / 10) x -$.15). The following
       is an example:

       Recycling Rate:               $2.81
       Net Blended Value:            -$55.00 per ton
       Adjustment factor             (-$55.00 / 10) = 5.50
       Adjustment                    5.50 x $0.15 = $0.83
       New Recycling Rate =          $2.81 + $0.83 = $3.64

       If the Net Blended Value is greater than -$9.99, then there will be no Blended
       Value Adjustment. For example, if there is a Net Blended Value of -$5.00, $0, or
       $5.00, there will be no Blended Value Adjustment.




                              Page 17 of 19
                                EXHIBIT A-1
                SINGLE STREAM MATERIALS SPECIFICATIONS


RECYCLABLES are the following materials which are dry and loose (not bagged):

 Aluminum cans – empty                            Newspaper
 PET bottles with the symbol #1 – with screw      Mail
 tops only – empty
 HDPE plastic bottles with the symbol #2          Uncoated paperboard (ex. cereal boxes; food
 (milk, water bottles detergent, and shampoo      and snack boxes)
 bottles, etc.) – empty
  LDPE and PP with the symbols #4 and #5          Uncoated printing, writing and office paper
 (squeezable bottles, yogurt containers,
 ketchup bottles, syrup bottles, etc.)

 Steel and tin cans – empty                       Old corrugated containers/cardboard
                                                  (uncoated)
                                                  Magazines, glossy inserts and pamphlets
WM may temporarily dispose of Recyclables, and categorize as Residue, in the event there is no
available market for such materials. WM will first provide written notice to City and supporting
documentation.

NON-RECYCLABLES include, but are not limited to the following:

 Plastic bags and bagged materials (even if      Microwavable trays
 containing Recyclables)
 Mirrors                                       Window or auto glass
 Light bulbs                                   Coated cardboard
 Porcelain and ceramics                        Plastics not listed above including but not
                                               limited to those with symbols #3, #6, #7 and
                                               unnumbered
 Expanded polystyrene                          Coat hangers
 Glass and metal cookware/bakeware             Household appliances and electronics,
 Hoses, cords, wires                           Yard waste, construction debris, and wood
 Flexible plastic or film packaging and multi- Needles, syringes, IV bags or other medical
 laminated materials                           supplies
 Food waste and liquids, containers containing Textiles, cloth, or any fabric (bedding,
 such items                                    pillows, sheets, etc.)
 Excluded Materials or containers which        Napkins, paper towels, tissue, paper plates,
 contained Excluded Materials                  paper cups, and plastic utensils




                                      Page 18 of 19
Any paper Recyclables or pieces of paper      Propane tanks, batteries
Recyclables less than 4” in size in any
dimension
Cartons                                       Aseptic Containers




                                   Page 19 of 19
