                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            July 20, 2021
Subject:         21-20, Text Amendment, Section 18.225-Accessory Buildings, Addressing
                 Standards Related to Accessory Building Height, Placement, and Use,
                 Amendments Proposed by Riverton City


On May 13, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review the proposed text
amendments. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission at that
hearing voted to recommend approval of the text amendments, and recommended the following
motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #21-20, amending sections 18.225, Accessory Buildings,
regulating building height, size, and other requirements, as shown on the attached documents.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Zoning Text Change proposed by Riverton City. The Zone text change
involves Section 18.225 Accessory Structures. The proposed amendments are primarily what staff would
refer to as ‘housekeeping’ items, clarifying or correcting existing language and standards. One example of
this in the proposed amendment is the current ordinance includes a prohibition on the use of storage or
freight containers as accessory structures, but that language is located in the section relating to carports.
This amendment relocates the language on storage containers to the General Requirements section.

In addition to minor housekeeping changes the amendments consist of the following:
     The ordinance includes allowance for structures below 200 square feet to be located 1 foot from
         property line. The amendment adds a limitation that the structure must also be single level and
         below 16 feet in height, to minimize impacts to surrounding properties.
     Increase of side and rear setbacks to 15 feet where a second story is included.
     Clarification of requirements for unfinished storage areas under trusses, including limitation to
         ladder access only.
     Clarification of height requirement and setback for agricultural structures, including minimum 15
         foot setback where structure exceeds 20 feet
     Clarification of fencing and setback requirements for above ground pools, adding where such pools
         have a capacity above 5,000 gallons fencing and setback standards apply.
     Addition of setback requirements for pool slides, diving boards, etc where such equipment exceeds
         36 inches in height.
     Deletion of maximum square footage limitation for internal accessory dwelling units, as Utah State
         Code no prohibits such limitations.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of these text changes, and staff concurs with that
recommendation.



Report by: TJP
7/14/2021
Attachments
The following items are attached:
   1. Draft text amendment to Section 18.225




Report by: TJP
7/14/2021
    Riverton City Code                                                                                          Page 1/7
    Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

                                                    Chapter 18.225

                                           ACCESSORY STRUCTURES


Sections:
18.225.020     General standards.
18.225.030     Location of accessory structures.
18.225.040     Architectural standards.
18.225.050     Agricultural structures.
18.225.060     Carports/temporary vehicle storage.
18.225.070     Swimming pools.
18.225.080     Accessory dwelling units.

18.225.020 General standards.
(1) General Standards. In addition to the use limitations and other regulations for the zoning district in which the
accessory structure is proposed, no accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed unless it complies with the
following requirements:

     (a) All accessory structures shall be incidental and subordinate to the principal use and/or structure on the
     property.

     (b) An accessory structure shall be under the same ownership or control as the principal structure and/or use on
     the property.

     (c) No accessory structure shall be established or constructed before the main dwelling or structure is under
     construction, and no accessory structure shall be occupied prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the
     main dwelling or structure.

     (d) No accessory structure shall include a residential dwelling or kitchen facilities, nor may an accessory
     structure be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling, except as provided in RCC 18.225.080.

     (e) All accessory structures shall comply with any and all applicable standards and requirements of the
     International Building and Fire Codes.

     (f) Play structures less than 15 feet in height and with a covered and/or enclosed floor area of less than 30
     square feet are exempt from the general restrictions of this chapter, but must comply with all setback
     requirements for accessory structures.

     (g) It shall be the sole responsibility of the property owner to obtain a release from the utility companies and
     any other entity holding rights to public utility or other easements on the property prior to any construction
     within those areas. [Ord. 19-21 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

     (h) Storage containers, freight containers, box cars, and similar storage equipment are prohibited. Temporary
     storage containers may be used during a move, but may not be present on the property for more than 72 hours

18.225.030 Location of accessory structures.
(1) Measurements. For the purpose of this chapter, measurements shall be from the foundation of the accessory
building to property line, or to foundation on the main dwelling.

(2) Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from the main dwelling.

(3) A minimum distance of five feet shall be maintained between accessory structures.

(4) Accessory structures may not encroach into any public utility or other easement without written permission to
encroach from all parties with rights to the easement.




                                                            .
    Riverton City Code                                                                                          Page 2/7
    Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

(5) Front Yards. All accessory structures are prohibited within any required front yard area, and no accessory
structure shall extend within 10 feet of the front plane of the main dwelling.

(6) Side Setbacks. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the side property line, except
as follows:

     (a) All accessory structures located between the main structure and the side property line shall maintain the
     same side yard setback as required for the main structure.

     (b) All accessory structures on corner lots shall maintain the minimum corner side yard setback as required for
     the main dwelling.

     (c) Single story Aaccessory structures of 200 square feet or less and below 16 feet in height shallmay be located
     a minimum of one foot from the side property lines, provided no portion of the building extends over the
     property line and runoff is contained to the property.

     (d) Accessory structures over 20 feet in height and/or including a second floor or story shall have a minimum
     side yard setback of 15 feet.

(7) Rear Setbacks. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the rear property line, except
as follows:

     (a) Single storyAaccessory structures of 200 square feet or less and below 16 feet in height shall be located a
     minimum of one foot from the rear property line, provided no portion of the building extends over the property
     line and runoff is contained to the property.

     (b) Accessory structures over 20 feet in height and/or including a second floor or story shall have a minimum
     rear yard setback of 15 feet. [Ord. 20-31 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-21 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.040 Architectural standards.
(1) Maximum Size. The maximum size of any accessory structure is two times the size of the footprint of the
principal structure (house and attached garage), and the maximum total size of all accessory structure(s) on any
parcel shall be limited to 10 percent of the total lot area, with any private lane as approved by Riverton City
excluded from the lot area.

(2) Maximum Height.

     (a) The maximum height of accessory structures shall be 20 feet. On property of at least 10,000 square feet the
     maximum height may be up to 25 feet, but may not exceed the height of the main dwelling, measured at the
     highest pitch of the roof.

     (b) Accessory structures on property below 1/3 acre (14,000 sf) in size shall be limited to one story. Unfinished
     storage areas under the roof trusses may be permitted, but shall not include finished spacewalls or ceiling, or
     utilities such as plumbing or electrical not associated with mechanical equipment. Access to such unfinished
     storage areas shall not include stairs, and shall utilize ladder access only. On property of at least one-third acre
     and zoned R-3, R-2, RR-22, R-1, or A-5, a second story may be allowed. ; provided, that no residential
     dwelling or kitchen facilities are included, nor may the structure be rented or otherwise used as a separate
     dwelling.

     (c) Height shall be measured from finished grade to the highest point on the structure.

(3) Exterior Materials and Design. Architectural standards, including general appearance, building materials, and
color, shall be as follows:

     (a) Accessory structures of 200 square feet or less shall be consistent in color and design with the main
     dwelling. Exposed plywood or particle board, corrugated metal, or similar materials are prohibited as exterior
     materials.




                                                            .
    Riverton City Code                                                                                           Page 3/7
    Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

     (b) Accessory structures greater than 200 square feet shall utilize only exterior building materials that are
     present on the main dwelling, excluding trim and nonarchitectural elements, structural materials, and prohibited
     materials. Colors shall be similar in tone and complementary to those used on the main dwelling. Wood or
     wood product siding, exposed plywood or particle board, corrugated metal, or similar materials are prohibited
     as exterior materials. Fiber-cement siding and aluminum or other metal siding may be substituted for vinyl
     siding if such siding is similar in color and appearance to the vinyl siding used on the main dwelling, as
     approved by the planning manager.

     (c) Accessory structures greater than 1,200 square feet shall include a minimum of 20 percent of the front
     exterior walls, and of the street side(s) of a corner lot, in masonry such as brick or stone same type, coloring,
     and/or style as on the main dwelling.

          (i) On property of at least one acre and zoned RR-22, R-1, or A-5, split-face or honed block may be used
          in place of stucco or other materials, but may not be substituted for any required brick, stone or other
          masonry consistent with that used on the home.

     (d) For accessory structures greater than 200 square feet where exterior materials on the main dwelling consist
     exclusively of masonry such as brick or stone, the exterior side of the accessory structure facing the front of the
     lot shall be entirely masonry of the same type and style on the main dwelling. For the remaining sides, the
     lower one-third of each side shall be masonry as used on the front elevation, and the remaining exterior may
     consist of stucco and/or vinyl or fiber-cement siding that is complementary to the main dwelling in color and
     design. [Ord. 20-31 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-21 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 18-14 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-26 § 1 (Exh. A);
     Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.050 Agricultural structures.
(1) Agricultural Structures. Accessory structures constructed on parcels of at least one-half acre and used
exclusively for agricultural use, defined as exclusively for the growing of plants (greenhouses), the storage of farm
animals and/or feed, as defined by ordinance, or of equipment used for commercial agricultural production on
parcels of at least 20 acres. Agricultural structures shall comply with the requirements of this chapter except as
follows:

     (a) Agricultural structures for animals must be designed such that the primary function of the structure is the
     keeping of farm animals and/or feed. Structures for the growing of plants shall be designed exclusively for that
     use, including exterior materials.

     (b) Agricultural structures above 20 feet in height shall be located a minimum of 10 15 feet from side and rear
     property lines. Agricultural structures 20 feet or below shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from property
     line. , andAgricultural structures shall, if located on a corner lot, shall comply with standard corner lot setback
     requirements.

     (c) Agricultural structures may not be located within 40 feet of any residential dwelling.

     (d) Maximum height of agricultural structures shall be 35 feet, with the exception of greenhouses, which may
     not exceed 20 feet in height.

     (e) Agricultural structures may, on approval from the planning department, utilize such exterior building
     materials that are appropriate to the use, while complementary to the main dwelling and to the surrounding
     community. Greenhouses must utilize translucent or transparent material designed to allow increased sunlight
     as the primary exterior material, including roofing material.

     (f) Agricultural structures may not include an accessory dwelling unit. Greenhouses may not include divided
     rooms, a second story or attic, lofts or other similar storage space. [Ord. 21-11 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-15 § 1
     (Exh. A).]

18.225.060 Carports/temporary vehicle storage.
(1) Temporary carports and other such temporary vehicle covers are permitted as follows:




                                                            .
    Riverton City Code                                                                                        Page 4/7
    Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

     (a) Temporary carports may only be used for parking or/and storage of vehicles and/or trailers.

     (b) Temporary carports must be less than 200 square feet, have a maximum of two enclosed sides and may not
     be placed on a permanent foundation.

     (c) Temporary carports shall meet the same setback, height, and coverage requirements as other accessory
     structures. However, carports may be placed directly adjacent to the main dwelling, provided the same side
     yard setbacks which apply to an attached garage are met.

     (d) Setbacks for temporary carports or other such structures are measured to the base of the support structure.

     (e) Temporary carports must comply with any and all applicable requirements and standards of the currently
     adopted building and fire codes.

(2) Storage containers, freight containers, box cars, and similar storage equipment are prohibited. Temporary storage
containers may be used during a move, but may not be present on the property for more than 72 hours. [Ord. 19-11 §
1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-26 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.070 Swimming pools.
(1) Swimming pools, including above ground pools with capacity above 5,000 gallons, shall have a minimum
setback of five feet from all property lines, and must have a minimum separation of five feet from any other
structure, excluding unenclosed mechanical equipment associated with the pool or other water features, and slides or
similar play equipmentdiving boards or similar play equipment less than 36 inches in height. Setbacks for the pool
are measured to water’s edge. Slides, diving, or similar structures above 36 inches shall be setback a minimum of
five (5) feet from property line, which setback shall include all elements of support for said structures.

(2) Any swimming pool, including above ground pools with capacity above 5,000 gallons shall be completely
surrounded by a non-accessible wall or fence having a height of at least six feet in which there shall be no openings
larger than 36 square inches except for gates which shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices.
[Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.080 Accessory dwelling units.
(1) Applicability. Accessory dwelling units are limited to all single-family zones, provided the lot under
consideration for an accessory dwelling unit can meet all technical requirements of this chapter, and applicable
building/fire codes. Accessory dwelling units shall not be permitted on a parcel of property which does not meet the
minimum square footage requirements of the underlying zone.

(2) Methods of Creation. An accessory dwelling unit may be created through the following methods:

     (a) Converting existing living area within a single-family dwelling, as an addition to an existing single-family
     dwelling, or within a single-family dwelling created as new construction;

     (b) Converting an existing detached accessory building, as an addition to an existing accessory building; or

     (c) As a newly constructed accessory building.

(3) Standards. Accessory dwelling units shall conform to the following requirements:

     (a) General Requirements Applicable to All Accessory Dwelling Units.

          (i) One per Lot. One accessory dwelling unit for each lot that contains a single-family dwelling.

          (ii) Not a Unit of Density. Accessory dwelling units are not considered a unit of density and therefore are
          not included in the density calculation for residential property.

          (iii) Ownership. An accessory dwelling unit shall not be sold separately or subdivided from the principal
          dwelling unit or lot.




                                                           .
    Riverton City Code                                                                                            Page 5/7
    Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

     (b) Owner Occupancy. The city shall only permit an accessory dwelling unit when an owner occupant lives on
     the property within either the principal or accessory dwelling unit. Owner occupancy shall not be required
     when:

          (i) The owner has a bona fide, temporary absence of three years or less for activities such as military
          service, temporary job assignments, sabbaticals, or voluntary service (indefinite periods of absence from
          the dwelling shall not qualify for this exception); or

          (ii) The owner is placed in a hospital, nursing home, assisted living facility or other similar facility that
          provides regular medical care, excluding retirement living facilities or communities.

(4) Number of Residents. The total number of residents that reside in an accessory dwelling unit may not exceed the
number allowed for a “family” for the lot on which the accessory dwelling unit is found, as defined in RCC
18.05.030, Definition of terms. This chapter shall not be construed to expand or increase the number of residents
who would otherwise be allowed to occupy a parcel of property under existing limitations for single-family zones.

(5) Home Occupations. Home occupations may be conducted in an accessory dwelling unit as per Chapter 18.190
RCC.

(6) Parking. An accessory dwelling unit shall require a minimum of one dedicated on-site parking space. If the
property has an existing driveway, the driveway area located between the property line with an adjacent street and a
legally located off-street parking area can satisfy the parking requirement if the parking requirement for the principal
use complies with applicable parking standards for the appurtenant residence, and the driveway area has a space that
is at least 20 feet deep by eight feet wide.

(7) Additional Requirements for Accessory Dwelling Units Located within a Single-Family Dwelling. Accessory
dwelling units located within a single-family dwelling shall comply with the following standards:

     (a) Any addition shall comply with the building height, yard requirements, and building coverage requirements
     of the underlying zoning district.

      (b) Size Requirements. No accessory dwelling unit shall occupy more than 50 percent of the gross square
     footage of the single-family dwelling, as determined by the city. The square footage of a loft within an
     accessory dwelling unit shall not be included in calculating the gross square footage. The square footage of an
     attached garage shall not be included in the gross square footage unless the accessory dwelling unit is located in
     a basement that includes habitable space below the garage.

     (cb) Entrance Locations. Entrances to an accessory dwelling unit that are located within a single-family
     dwelling shall only be permitted in the following locations:

          (i) An existing entrance to the single-family dwelling;

          (ii) When located on a building facade that faces a corner side yard, the entrance shall be set back a
          minimum of 20 feet from the front building facade;

          (iii) Exterior stairs on a corner lot leading to an entrance above or below the first level of the principal
          structure shall only be located on the rear elevation of the building;

          (iv) Side entrances to an accessory dwelling unit are not considered a principal entry to the building;

          (v) Exterior stairs on lots other than a corner lot, leading to an entrance above or below the first level of
          the principal structure, may be located on a side or rear elevation of a building;

          (vi) Located on the rear facade of the dwelling.

(8) Additional Requirements for an Accessory Dwelling Unit Located in a Detached Accessory Building. An
accessory dwelling unit located in a detached accessory building or as an addition to an existing accessory building
shall comply with the following standards:



                                                             .
    Riverton City Code                                                                                        Page 6/7
    Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

    (a) Bulk Requirements. Accessory structures containing an ADU Sshall comply with all applicable general
    yard, square footage size and height limitations found in this chapter and any accessory building regulation
    found in the underlying zoning district unless otherwise regulated by this section. An accessory dwelling unit
    located in an additional accessory building shall count towards the maximum square footage of all accessory
    buildings as stated in this chapter. The accessory building containing an accessory dwelling unit shall not have
    a footprint that is greater than 50 percent of the footprint of the principal dwelling. Any loft within the
    accessory dwelling unit of an accessory building shall not be included in calculating the footprint of the
    accessory dwelling unit. An accessory building that contains an accessory dwelling unit and any other
    permitted accessory use shall comply with all building coverage requirements of this chapter.

    (b) Maximum Coverage. Shall comply with the accessory building maximum coverage requirements of the
    underlying zoning district.

    (c) Setbacks. Shall comply with the accessory building setback requirements of the underlying zoning.

    (d) Building Height. Shall comply with the accessory building height requirements of the underlying zoning.

    (e) Size Requirements. An accessory building that contains an accessory dwelling unit shall be subject to the
    building coverage requirements for accessory buildings found in this chapter.

    (f) Entrance Locations. The entrance to an accessory dwelling unit in an accessory building shall be located:

         (i) Facing an alley, public street or facing the rear facade of the single-family dwelling on the same
         property.

         (ii) Facing a side or rear property line provided the entrance is located a minimum of 10 feet from the side
         or rear property line.

         (iii) Exterior stairs leading to an entrance shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from a side or rear
         property line.

    (g) Requirements for Windows. Windows on an accessory building containing an accessory dwelling unit shall
    comply with the following standards:

         (i) Windows shall maintain a similar dimension and design as the windows found on the principal
         structure, as approved by the planning department.

         (ii) Window openings located on the ground floor within an existing accessory building, whether
         conforming or nonconforming with window regulations in this chapter, may be retained if compliant with
         building and fire codes, as determined by the planning department.

    (hg) Balconies and Decks. Balconies and decks shall be designed as follows:

         (i) Shall not exceed 80 square feet in size when located above the ground level of the building;

         (ii) Shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from a side or rear yard lot line unless the applicable side or
         rear yard lot line is adjacent to an alley;

         (iii) Rooftop decks or second-story decks are prohibited on an accessory structure used as an accessory
         dwelling unit.

(9) Registration Process. The owner occupant(s) seeking to establish an accessory dwelling unit shall apply for a
permit to establish an accessory dwelling unit, using forms provided by the planning department. Each successive
owner occupant seeking to maintain an existing, lawfully permitted accessory dwelling unit shall renew the existing
permit, using forms provided by the planning department. Registration shall include a processing fee of $175.00,
which will include the cost of any city inspections not associated with a building permit. The owner occupant shall
comply with all applicable provisions of this title including, but not limited to:




                                                          .
    Riverton City Code                                                                                       Page 7/7
    Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

    (a) Building Permit. Obtain a building permit for construction associated with the proposed accessory dwelling
    unit, regardless of method of creation. No ADU permit and/or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for an
    accessory dwelling unit until all associated construction is complete and inspected.

    (b) Statement of Owner Occupancy. An application for an accessory dwelling unit shall include documentation,
    using forms provided by the planning department, that demonstrates an owner occupant resides on the property.

(10) Occupancy. A certificate of occupancy/ADU permit for the ADU shall not be issued until all applicable
requirements of this title have been complied with.

    (a) Certificate of Occupancy. No accessory dwelling unit shall receive a certificate of occupancy/ADU permit
    or be occupied until the property owner completes the registration process outlined in this section. Registration
    is not required if the ADU is occupied by family members of the property owner.

    (b) Failure to comply with the standards and requirements of this section, and any and all other applicable
    ordinances, standards, or regulations of the city, may result in revocation of the ADU permit and/or certificate
    of occupancy for the accessory dwelling unit. [Ord. 19-21 § 1 (Exh. A).]




                                                          .
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 7
May 13, 2021



Commissioner Russell moved to APPROVE Application PLZ-21-2017 Rack and
Runnin’ Customs Home Occupation located at 1331 Cancun Way with the following
conditions:

       1.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance and this approval.

       2.     The home occupation shall remain in compliance with any and all
              applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City
              Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
              Codes.

       3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

       4.     The business may utilize the entire floor space of the detached garage.

Commissioner Brown seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       d.     ZONE TEXT CHANGE: RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO
              THE LAND USE CODE FOR CHAPTER 18.225 “ACCESSORY
              STRUCTURES”, CONTINUED FROM THE APRIL 22 MEETING.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the proposed amendments are an
effort to bring the ordinance in line with Utah State Code. The changes will address the
Legislature’s most recent changes along with housekeeping amendments and minor
clarifications. He explained that an accessory structure is anything other than the main
dwelling on a residential property and can include a shed, detached garage, swimming
pools, pergolas, etc. Staff determined that the current ordinance contains inconsistencies
and the recommended changes would establish a 15-foot setback.

It was reported that the standards for swimming pools have been updated. Mr. Prestwich
stated that pool inspections will have increased dramatically. Because equipment and
installs are difficult to get, above-ground pools are being installed with the required minimum
setback of five feet from the property line.

Accessory buildings were reviewed. Mr. Prestwich stated that the current ordinance
matches up with the Building Code where structures measuring below 200 square feet do
not require a Building Permit and are allowed to be located one foot from the property line.
The structure may be one story in height and less than 16 feet. The ordinance also allows
unfinished storage space under trusses and does not count as a second floor. To comply
with the Building Code, staff added the limitation that storage spaces only be accessed
through a ladder.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
May 13, 2021

Accessory Dwelling Units (“ADU”) were next discussed. Mr. Prestwich stated they removed
the maximum percentage of dwelling limitation for internal ADUs. The ADU language also
allows for the creation of an Accessory Dwelling Unit inside the home. Riverton City
ordinance specifies that it must be smaller than the main part of the home, however, the
State has specified that there can be no limitations imposed. He confirmed that the limitation
has been removed. The requirements regarding consistency of window design with the
main dwellings for detached ADUs have also been removed. He noted changes have been
posted on the City webpage and at several locations at City Hall.

Chair Rushton asked if a homeowner could move into the mother-in-law unit and rent the
remaining square footage. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that that is allowed as the State has
limited that requirement.

Commissioner Breinholt referenced Section 18-225-040, Architectural Standards, and
asked if garages and separate spaces are allowed to be used as dwellings. Mr. Prestwich
explained that those spaces may now be used as dwellings with an ADU permit. In addition,
a new garage may be built as an ADU or garage converted to living space. He confirmed
that a building that is 200 square feet in size or less does not require a Building Permit. He
was unsure why the restriction of exposed plywood was removed. Like a rezone, this makes
recommendations on a legislative action. He noted that if the Commission would like to see
this issue again, a motion to continue may be made or forwarded to City Council with
recommendations.

There were no public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff moved to recommend APPROVAL of the Zone Text Change for
Accessory Buildings amending Section 18-225 as shown on the attached documents.
Commissioner Brown seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       e.     ZONE TEXT CHANGE: RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO
              THE LAND USE CODE FOR REGULATING DEVELOPMENT OF LOTS ON
              PRIVATE LANES.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the current ordinance allows for a
maximum of four homes on a private lane with a maximum length of 450 feet. As open fields
and space within Riverton City are taken, parcels behind homes and at the end of long
narrow roads are what is available. Changing the ordinance for private lanes allows the City
to have more tools for developers and staff to be creative in solving infill issues. He
explained that if the City allows lanes to be private, it opens more ground for development.
The City has allowed for four homes on a private lane for the past 14 years and he believed
they are at a point in the City’s growth that changes need to be made to help remaining
properties develop.
