                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                 AUGUST 25, 2022

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Shelly Cluff, Chair                             Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
Keith Breinholt                                 Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                     Lisa Halverson, City Planner
Evan Matheson                                   Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Shelly Cluff called the Planning Commission Meeting to order at approximately
6:30 p.m. The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Commissioner Evan Matheson. It was noted
that Commissioner Jon Gilchrist was not present at the Planning Commission Meeting.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     REZONE – “AFCU REZONE” PLZ-22-4007, A PROPOSAL TO REZONE
              7.93 ACRES ON THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF 12653 SOUTH 3600
              WEST FROM C-PO TO C-G. APPLICANT – RICK MAGNESS.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. City Planner, Lisa Halverson, presented the Staff
Report and stated that the item related to the America First Credit Union (“AFCU”) Rezone.
The application was to rezone 7.93 acres of land located at 12653 South 3600 West. She
explained that this was a rectangular piece of property that is approximately 466 feet wide
and 750 feet deep. The applicant proposed putting an America First Credit Union branch
on the northwest corner of the property. The rest of the property will remain undeveloped
and potentially subdivided and sold at a future date. Ms. Halverson shared a map of the
area.

The property is currently zoned Professional Office Commercial (“C-PO”). Several of the
surrounding properties are zoned RR-22, Neighborhood Commercial, and Regional
Commercial. Ms. Halverson reported that there is also a hospital, a church, and a school in
the vicinity. The current C-PO Zone allowed for the bank use, but without the drive-thru. As
a result, the applicant would like to rezone the property to Gateway Commercial (“C-G”)
Zone. The zone would allow banking services with the drive-thru as a permitted use. It
would also provide additional flexibility for signage on the property. The current General
Plan designation for the property is C-PO and Business Park.

Commissioner Rushton noted that a rezone was recently approved for a coffee shop to the
east. He wondered what zone that was in. City Planner, Tim Prestwich, explained that the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                2
August 25, 2022

Scooter’s Coffee site did a rezone to C-G from Neighborhood Commercial (“C-N”). It was a
Conditional Use to have a drive-thru for food services in the C-G Zone. Mr. Prestwich noted
that there is currently a Site Plan being reviewed. That application would be seen by the
Planning Commission within the next month or so.

The applicant’s representative, Rick Magnus from AWA Engineering explained that the
America First Credit Union business model is to have a drive-thru. It is not permitted in the
current zone. As a result, AWA Engineering worked with City Staff to file an appropriate
request for zoning. The C-G Zone was selected due to the fact that it allows drive-thrus and
has different regulations for signage.

Commissioner Breinholt wondered if the application was for a bank without a drive-thru.
Mr. Magnus clarified that the application is for a bank with a drive-thru. That was the reason
for the requested zone change. Chair Cluff wondered if anything needed to be run by the
Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”). Mr. Magnus reported that there would need
to be discussions with UDOT. The necessary applications would be made. He noted that
UDOT would want to know how the accesses are designed.

Commissioner Matheson wondered if Staff had any long-term concerns about the zone
change. Mr. Prestwich noted that the C-G Zone and the C-PO Zone have slightly different
allowed uses. There were similarities between the two zones but differences relative to food
services and drive-thrus. Chair Cluff wondered if a restaurant could take over the proposed
location in the future. She was concerned about the busy intersection. While the location
is suitable for a bank use, she did not believe the location was appropriate for a restaurant
drive-thru. Mr. Prestwich reported that once the zoning is in place, America First Credit
Union could walk away, and anything permitted in the C-G Zone would be permitted as long
as Site Plan standards are met. A restaurant with a drive-thru is a conditional use in the
C-G Zone.

Mr. Magnus noted that the architectural standards are higher in the requested zone than in
the current zone. He explained that if the current zoning remains, there would not be a drive-
thru, but the standard architectural design could move forward. With the C-G Zone, the
design needs to be elevated in terms of materials and architectural features. These design
standards would provide consistency within the C-G Zone.

Commissioner Cannon was concerned about how America First Credit Union would use the
property and what would happen if America First Credit Union is no longer in this location.
He asked City Attorney, Ryan Carter about the distance requirements for alcohol sales.
Mr. Carter explained that there is a proximity requirement for a restaurant with a liquor
license. If a restaurant with a liquor license wants to move into the subject property in the
future, there may be limitations.

Commissioner Matheson asked if the request to rezone was only for the subject property or
the full block. Mr. Prestwich explained that it is the entire seven acres, which was shown in
red on the map. Commissioner Breinholt wondered how the shift from C-PO to C-G would
impact the locations next to the hospital. He believed the intention was to have medical
office spaces there. Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge, reported that the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
August 25, 2022

assumption when the hospital was announced was that there would be a lot of spillover
uses. That had not proven to be the case. He clarified that the City was not abandoning
the desire for medical office space in that portion of the City, but because there are vacancies
in the area, it made sense to expand some of the available use options.

Kenneth Fayler has lived across the street from the subject property in Riverton Meadows
since 1973. Concerns were expressed about emergency access to the subject property.
He wanted to understand how access would work because the average speed on 12600
South is 40 to 70 MPH. It often takes 15 minutes just to get out onto the road. Mr. Fayler
understood that the Fire Department would require two accesses to the subject property.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Cluff addressed the concerns expressed during the public comment period. She
believed that all issues related to access would be handled through the UDOT discussions
and application. Mr. Prestwich explained that Scooter’s Coffee had already spoken to UDOT
and the workings of their UDOT permit were in place. It would require that they share an
access to the west, so Scooter’s Coffee would share a drive approach. That would probably
leave enough space for America First Credit Union to have another access on 12600 South.
However, all of those details would be taken care of during the UDOT process.

Mr. Prestwich reported that there were different sign standards between C-PO and C-G.
The C-PO Zone allows a wall sign to have the name of the occupant of the building. That
meant the logo could not be placed on the wall. This made it difficult for commercial
businesses. Commissioner Park noted that the rezone would not necessarily allow for all
uses. There would still be approval processes with the City, UDOT, and the Fire
Department. If approvals were not granted, the proposal would be redesigned or denied.
