                            MEMORANDUM
To:            Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:          Planning Department
Date:          November 12, 2024
Subject:       Ordinance 24-21 “Development Agreement for 2682 W 13400 S”, establishing
               requirements, standards, and parameters for development of approximately .32 acres
               located at 2682 W 13400 S, with zoning set to RM-6 and allowing up to three (3)
               attached units on that property. Proposed by Daniel McCay representing Evolution
               Development


The Planning Commission held two hearings on this item, with the final being October 10, 2024.
Minutes from those meetings are included below. The Planning Commission voted to
recommend denial, with the following recommended motion:

I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of Ordinance 24-21, adopting the
“Development Agreement for 2682 W 13400 S”, thus keeping the existing R-3 single family
zoning.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Development Agreement applied to property located at 2682 W
13400 S, at the northeast corner of the intersection of 2700 W 13400 S. Evolution
Development, represented by Daniel McCay, is proposing approval of a Development
Agreement establishing requirements, standards, and parameters for development of
approximately .32-acres located at 13040 S Redwood Road, including rezoning the property to
RM-6 for multi-family use with up to three (3) attached units of that property.

The property is currently zoned R-3, a single-family residential zone, with 1/3 acre minimum lot
sizes. The surrounding properties and area to the north and east are also zoned R-3. The
property to the west across 2700 West is meetinghouse site for The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints, and the property to the south across 13400 South is currently agriculturally
used but zoned R-4. The General Plan designation for the property is Medium Density
Residential, which is single-family with the lot size range for ¼ acre and above.

The applicant is proposing adoption of a Development Agreement which would apply the RM-6
zone to the property, but include modifications to that zone to allow three (3) attached units on
the reduced parcel size. The RM-6 requires a minimum the required ½ acre. The Agreement
includes other modifications to that ordinance to facilitate the proposed use. A copy of the
proposed agreement is included below. The review of the proposed development agreement
should be made similarly to a rezone, as the applicant is proposing modifying the allowed land
use for the property. The applicant may present additional information at the public hearing,
and Staff, including the City Attorney, will be present to address any questions or concerns.
A Development Agreement is required by Utah State Code to be given equal treatment to a rezone
application, meaning the deciding land use authority for this is the City Council. As such, notices
were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-page
advertising this item for this public hearing. Received comments have been included in this
packet.

The Planning Commission held an initial public hearing on this item, and continued the application
to allow the applicant to present additional information. At the subsequent public hearing, the
Commission voted to recommend denial of the application. Minutes from those meetings are
included. The applicant may present additional information at the upcoming meeting.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Applications
        2. Area Maps
        3. Proposed Development Agreement
        4. Submitted Materials
   PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT
  AGREEMENT
                   MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                FOR
                            PROJECT NAME




                            October 1, 2021




Last Update Date            Riverton City Contract #   Page 1 of 32
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:


ATTORNEY NAME
LAW FIRM
MAILING ADDRESS
CITY, STATE ZIP

                           MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                        FOR
                                    PROJECT NAME

          THIS MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (“MDA”) is made and entered into as

of the 01 day of October, 2021, by and between Riverton City, a Utah municipality and party to

MDA, and ___________________type of company, incorporated in the state of Utah.

                                             RECITALS

          A. The capitalized terms used in this MDA and in these Recitals are defined in Section

1.2, below.

          B. Master Developer owns and is developing the Property.

          C. Master Developer and the City desire that the Property be developed in a unified and

consistent fashion pursuant to the Master Plan.

          D. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this MDA will

result in significant planning and public safety benefits to the City and its residents by, among

other things promoting orderly development of the Property as a subdivision known as project

name.

          E. The Parties desire to enter into this MDA to specify the rights and responsibilities of

the Master Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this MDA and the rights and

responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements

of this MDA, Riverton City Code, and Utah statutory law.
Last Update Date                           Riverton City Contract #                        Page 2 of 32
          F. The Parties understand and intend that this MDA is a “development agreement” within

the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of the Municipal Land Use Development

and Management Act, Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-101 (2021) et seq.

          G. On month xx, 20xx, the City zoned the Property xxxx.

          H. This MDA conforms with the intent of the City’s General Plan and the Zoning.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and

other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby

acknowledged, the City and Master Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                                  TERMS

     1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

          1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and the following Exhibits “A” - “___” are

          hereby incorporated into this MDA.

          1.2. Definitions. As used in this MDA, the words and phrases specified below shall have

          the following meanings:

               1.2.1. Act means the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah Code Ann.

               § 10-9a-101 (2018), et seq.

               1.2.2. Administrator means the person designated by the City as the Administrator

               of this MDA.

               1.2.3. Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.

               1.2.4. Buildout means the completion of all of the development on the entire Project

               in accordance with the approved plans.

               1.2.5. City means Riverton City, a Utah municipality.



Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                       Page 3 of 32
               1.2.6. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in

               various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing

               certain aspects of the development of the Project.

               1.2.7. City’s Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures

               which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development

               Application is submitted for a part of the Project and which may or may not be

               applicable to the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this

               MDA.

               1.2.8. City’s Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures

               of the City in effect as of the date of this MDA.

               1.2.9. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

               1.2.10. Default means a material breach of this MDA as specified herein.

               1.2.11. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the

               City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review

               comments or “redlines” by City staff.

               1.2.12. Development means the development of a portion of the Property pursuant to

               an approved Development Application.

               1.2.13. Development Application means an application to the City for development

               of a portion of the Project including a Subdivision or any other permit, certificate or

               other authorization from the City required for development of the Project.

               1.2.14. Development Report means a report containing the information specified in

               Section 2.4.



Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                          Page 4 of 32
               1.2.15. Final Plat means the recordable map or other graphical representation of land

               prepared in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-603 (2018), or any successor

               provision, and approved by the City, effectuating a Subdivision of any portion of the

               Project.

               1.2.16. Master Developer means party to MDA, and its assignees or transferees as

               permitted by this MDA.

               1.2.17. Master Plan means the conceptual layout for Residential Dwelling Units and

               Public Infrastructure for the Project

               1.2.18. Maximum Residential Units means the development on the Property of up to

               three Residential Dwelling Units

               1.2.19. MDA means this Master Development Agreement including all of its

               Exhibits.

               1.2.20. Notice means any notice to or from any Party to this MDA that is either

               required or permitted to be given to another party.

               1.2.21. Parcel means a portion of the Property that is created by the Master

               Developer to be sold to a Subdeveloper as a Subdivision that is not an individually

               developable lot as specified in Section 5.9.

               1.2.22. Party/Parties means, in the singular, Master Developer or the City; in the

               plural Master Developer and the City.

               1.2.23. Planning Commission means the City’s Planning Commission.

               1.2.24. Project means the total development to be constructed on the Property

               pursuant to this MDA with the associated public and private facilities, and all of the

               other aspects approved as part of this MDA.
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                         Page 5 of 32
               1.2.25. Property means the real property owned by and to be developed by Master

               Developer more fully described in Exhibit "A".

               1.2.26. Public Infrastructure means those elements of infrastructure that are planned

               to be dedicated to the City as a condition of the approval of a Development

               Application.

               1.2.27. Subdeveloper means a person or an entity not “related” (as defined by

               Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code) to Master Developer which purchases a

               Parcel for development.

               1.2.28. Subdivision means the division of any portion of the Project into developable

               lots pursuant to State Law and/or the Zoning Ordinance.

               1.2.29. Subdivision Application means the application to create a Subdivision.

               1.2.30. Zoning means the zone for the Property as amended by execution of this

               Agreement, which shall be RM-6, as further described under Title 18, Chapter 45, of

               Riverton City Code.

               1.2.31. Zoning Ordinance means the City’s Land Use and Development Ordinance

               adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this MDA as a part of

               the City’s Vested Laws.

     2. Development of the Project.

          2.1. Compliance with the Master Plan and this MDA. Development of the Project

          shall be in accordance with the City’s Vested Laws, the City’s Future Laws (to the extent

          that these are applicable as otherwise specified in this MDA), the Master Plan and this

          MDA.      The development of the Property shall also conform to all Exhibits incorporated

          into this MDA.
Last Update Date                            Riverton City Contract #                          Page 6 of 32
          2.2. Maximum Residential Units. At Buildout of the Project, Master Developer shall be

          entitled to have developed the Maximum Residential Units allowed pursuant to the

          zoning density designated for the Property, after taking all other development standards

          into account under the City’s Vested Laws.

          2.3. Limitation and No Guarantee. Master Developer acknowledges that the

          development of the Maximum Residential Units and every other aspect of the Master

          Plan requires that each Development Application comply with the City’s Vested Laws.

          The City’s entry into this MDA does not guarantee that the Master Developer will be able

          to construct the Maximum Residential Units or any other aspect of the Project until and

          unless all the applicable requirements of the City’s Vested Laws are complied with.

          2.4. Accounting for Residential Units for Parcels Sold to Subdevelopers. Any Parcel

          sold by Master Developer to a Subdeveloper shall include the transfer of a specified

          portion of the Maximum Residential Units sold with the Parcel.

     3. Vested Rights.

          3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this MDA. To the maximum extent

          permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend

          that this MDA grants Master Developer all rights to develop the Project in fulfillment of

          but subject to this MDA, the City’s Vested Laws, the Zoning at a density of RM-6 (see

          Riverton City Code, Title 18, Chapter 45) and the Master Plan except as specifically

          provided herein. The Parties specifically intend that this MDA grant to Master Developer

          “vested rights” as that term is construed in Utah’s common law and pursuant to Utah

          Code Ann. § 10-9a-509 (2018).

          3.2. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City’s Vested Laws and
Last Update Date                           Riverton City Contract #                         Page 7 of 32
          Future Lass to the Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following

          exceptions:

               3.2.1. Exceptions to Vested Laws: The City’s Vested laws are hereby modified to

               accommodate the design of the Project:

                   3.2.1.1. Dwelling Units: it is contemplated that dwelling units on the property

                   will not be constructed detached single family units, but attached, as in the case of

                   triplexes or town homes. Accordingly, Riverton City Code Section 18.45.020

                   shall be deemed amended as it applies to the property, to allow for attached single

                   family dwelling units, at a total of thee.

                   3.2.1.2. Minimum Parcel Size: The Property is .53 acres. Accordingly the

                   minimum parcel size required pursuant to Riverton City Code Section 18.45.050

                   shall be adjusted from 1.5 acres to match the Property.

                   3.2.1.3.Fencing: Section 19.45.170 would require masonry fencing around the

                   perimeter of property. Riverton City Code Section 18.45.170 shall be deemed

                   amended as it applies to the property, to allow for existing fencing standards

                   which presently exist in the perimeter of the Property.

                   3.2.1.4. Lot Configurations, and Sebacks: Riverton City Code section 18.45.180

                   regulates several aspects of a building lot, and the placement of structures upon a

                   building lot. The following features to the Project shall be deemed amendments

                   to Section 18.45.180: the Property shall feature a lot sizes which are smaller than

                   5000 square feet; individual lots shall be configured to equal 110 feet width by

                   120 feet depth; side yard setbacks will not be required between dwelling units; the

                   east side yard setback shall be adjusted to 10 feet; the west side yard setback shall
Last Update Date                              Riverton City Contract #                          Page 8 of 32
                   be adjusted to twenty feet from the back of sidewalk; the rear yard setback (on

                   north side of the Property) shall be set to 25 feet; and no open space shall be

                   required. for the project.

               3.2.2. Master Developer Agreement. City’s Future Laws that Master Developer

               agrees in writing to the application thereof to the Project;

               3.2.3. State and Federal Compliance. City’s Future Laws which are generally

               applicable to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with State

               and Federal laws and regulations affecting the Project;

               3.2.4. Codes. Any City’s Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing

               building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous buildings, drainage, or similar

               construction or safety related codes, such as the International Building Code, the

               APWA Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control

               Devices or similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide

               recognized construction/safety organization, or by the State or Federal governments

               and are required to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or

               welfare;

               3.2.5. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully

               imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons

               and entities similarly situated;

               3.2.6. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development

               Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a

               portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are

               adopted pursuant to State law;
Last Update Date                                Riverton City Contract #                       Page 9 of 32
               3.2.7. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,

               and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U. S. Constitution,

               Utah Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code

               Ann. Section 11-36a-101 (2018) et seq.;

               3.2.8. Planning and Zoning Modification. Changes by the City to its planning

               principles and design standards such as architectural or design requirements, setbacks

               or similar items so long as such changes do not work to reduce the Maximum

               Residential Units, are generally applicable across the entire City and do not materially

               and unreasonably increase the costs of any Development; or

               3.2.9. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City’s

               land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a

               compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-

               509(1)(a)(i) (2018).

     4. Term of Agreement. The effective date of this MDA shall be month xx, 20xx. This

MDA shall expire month xx, 2026. If Master Developer has not been declared to be currently in

Default as of month xx, 2026 (and if any such Default is not being cured) then this MDA shall be

automatically extended until month xx, 2031. This MDA shall also terminate automatically at

Buildout.

     5. Processing of Development Applications.

          5.1. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any

          Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or

          stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State

          of Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped
Last Update Date                            Riverton City Contract #                            Page 10 of 32
          signifying that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable

          regulatory standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines,

          comments or suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application

          unless any changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be

          addressed.

          5.2. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City

          needs technical expertise beyond the City’s internal resources to determine impacts of a

          Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar

          matters which are not required by the City’s Vested Laws to be certified by such experts

          as part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City

          Consultants with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          The City Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by

          this MDA shall be selected from a list generated by the City for each such City

          review pursuant to a “request for proposal” process or as otherwise allowed by

          City ordinances or regulations. Applicant may, in its sole discretion, strike from

          the list of qualified proposers any of such proposed consultants so long as at least

          three (3) qualified proposers remain for selection. The anticipated cost and

          timeliness of such review may be a factor in choosing the expert. The actual and

          reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          5.3. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development

          Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the

          reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the

Last Update Date                           Riverton City Contract #                        Page 11 of 32
          Development Application is not consistent with this MDA, the Zoning and/or the City’s

          Vested Laws (or, if applicable, the City’s Future Laws).

          5.4. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and

          Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to resolve the

          issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.

          5.5. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City

          Agencies. If the City’s denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the

          Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial

          through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes

          specified below.

          5.6. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

               5.6.1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City’s Denial of a

               Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by “Meet and

               Confer” shall be mediated and include the following:

                                 (i)     the location of On-Site Infrastructure, including utility lines

                                 and stub outs to adjacent developments,

                                 (ii)     right-of-way modifications that do not involve the altering

                                 or vacating of a previously dedicated public right-of-way,

                                 (iii)    interpretations, minor technical edits or inconsistencies

                                 necessary to clarify or modify documents consistent with their

                                 intended purpose of the Development Standards, and

                                 (iv)    the issuance of building permits.

               5.6.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a
Last Update Date                            Riverton City Contract #                          Page 12 of 32
               disagreement subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15)

               calendar days to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal

               issue in dispute. If the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable

               mediator they shall each, within fifteen (15) calendar days, appoint their own

               representative. These two representatives shall, between them, choose the single

               mediator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

               days, review the positions of the parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly

               attempt to mediate the issue between the parties. If the parties are unable to reach

               agreement, the mediator shall notify the parties in writing of the resolution that the

               mediator deems appropriate. The mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the

               parties.

          5.7. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.

               5.7.1. Arbitration Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue

               through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

               appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute.

               . If the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator they shall each,

               within fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual

               appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single

               arbitrator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

               days, review the positions of the parties regarding the arbitration issue and render a

               decision. The arbitrator shall ask the prevailing party to draft a proposed order for
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                           Page 13 of 32
               consideration and objection by the other side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and

               consideration of such objections, the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding

               upon both parties. If the arbitrator determines as a part of the decision that the City’s

               or Applicant’s position was not only incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably

               and not in good faith then the arbitrator may order the City or Applicant to pay the

               arbitrator’s fees.

          5.8. Parcel Sales. The City acknowledges that the precise location and details of the

          public improvements, lot layout and design and any other similar item regarding the

          development of a particular Parcel may not be known at the time of the creation of or sale

          of a Parcel. Master Developer may obtain approval of a Subdivision as is provided in

          Utah Code Ann., Section 10-9a-103(57)(c)(v) (2018) that does not create any

          individually developable lots in the Parcel without being subject to any requirement in

          the City’s Vested Laws to complete or provide security for any Public Infrastructure at

          the time of such subdivision. The responsibility for completing and providing security

          for completion of any Public Infrastructure in the Parcel shall be that of the Master

          Developer or a Subdeveloper upon a subsequent re-Subdivision of the Parcel that creates

          individually developable lots. However, construction of improvements shall not be

          allowed until the Master Developer or Subdeveloper complies with the City’s Vested

          Laws.

     6. Application Under City’s Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this

MDA, Master Developer may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for all

or part of the Project under the City’s Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development

Application so long as Master Developer is not in current breach of this Agreement.
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                          Page 14 of 32
     7. Public Infrastructure.

          7.1. Construction by and Master Developer. Master Developer shall have the right and

          the obligation to construct or cause to be constructed and installed all Public

          Infrastructure reasonably and lawfully required as a condition of approval of the

          Development Application pursuant to the City’s Vested Laws.

          7.2. Bonding. If and to the extent required by the City's Vested Laws, unless otherwise

          provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code as amended, security for any Public or

          private Infrastructure—is required by the City Applicant shall provide it in a form

          acceptable to the City as specified in the City's Vested Laws. Partial releases of any such

          required security shall be made as work progresses based on the City's Vested Laws.

     8. Upsizing/Reimbursements to Master Developer.

          8.1. "Upsizing". The City shall not require Master Developer to “upsize” any future

          Public Infrastructure (i.e., to construct the infrastructure to a size larger than required to

          service the Project) unless financial arrangements reasonably acceptable to Master

          Developer are made to compensate Master Developer for the incremental or additive

          costs of such upsizing. For example, if an upsizing to a water pipe size increases costs by

          10% but adds 50% more capacity, the City shall only be responsible to compensate

          Master Developer for the 10% cost increase. An acceptable financial arrangement for

          upsizing of improvements means reimbursement agreements, payback agreements, and

          impact fee credits and reimbursements.

     9. Default.

          9.1. Notice. If Master Developer or a Subdeveloper or the City fails to perform their

          respective obligations hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                           Page 15 of 32
          that a Default has occurred shall provide Notice to the other Party. If the City believes

          that the Default has been committed by a Subdeveloper then the City shall also provide a

          courtesy copy of the Notice to Master Developer.

          9.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

               9.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;

               9.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any

               applicable law, rule, regulation or provision of this MDA that is claimed to be in

               Default;

               9.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

               9.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method

               and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar

               days duration.

          9.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of

          Default the parties shall engage in the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes

          specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as

          provided in Section 5.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

          9.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by “Meet and Confer” or

          by “Mediation”, and if the Default is not subject to arbitration then the parties may have

          the following remedies, except as specifically limited in 10.9:

               9.4.1. Law and Equity. All rights and remedies available at law and in equity,

               including, but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific performance.

               9.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection

               with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                          Page 16 of 32
               9.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals,

               licenses, building permits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the

               case of a default by Master Developer, or in the case of a default by a Subdeveloper,

               development of those Parcels owned by the Subdeveloper until the Default has been

               cured.

          9.5. Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 10.4 may be imposed by the City the

          party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before the

          City Council and address the City Council regarding the claimed Default.

          9.6. Emergency Defaults. Anything in this MDA notwithstanding, if the City Council

          finds on the record that a default materially impairs a compelling, countervailing interest

          of the City and that any delays in imposing such a default would also impair a

          compelling, countervailing interest of the City then the City may impose the remedies of

          Section 10.4 without the requirements of Sections 10.5. The City shall give Notice to

          Master Developer and/or any applicable Subdeveloper of any public meeting at which an

          emergency default is to be considered and the Master Developer and/or any applicable

          Subdeveloper shall be allowed to address the City Council at that meeting regarding the

          claimed emergency Default.

          9.7. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within thirty (30)

          calendar days then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting party is

          pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

          9.8. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not

          be deemed a default of Master Developer.

          9.9. Limitation on Recovery for Default – No Damages. Anything in this MDA
Last Update Date                            Riverton City Contract #                         Page 17 of 32
          notwithstanding no Party shall be entitled to any claim for any monetary damages as a

          result of any breach of this MDA and each Party waives any claims thereto. The sole

          remedy available to Master Developer or any Subdeveloper shall be that of specific

          performance.

     10. Notices. All notices required or permitted under this MDA shall, in addition to any other

means of transmission, be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the following

address:

     To the Master Developer:

     NAME
     COMPANY
     MAILING ADDRESS
     CITY, STATE ZIP
     EMAIL
     PHONE

     With a Copy to:

     ATTORNEY NAME
     LAW FIRM
     MAILING ADDRESS
     CITY, STATE ZIP
     EMAIL
     PHONE

     To the City:

     Riverton City
     Attn: City Manager
     12830 South Redwood Road
     Riverton, UT 84065
     (801) 254-0704

     With a Copy to:

     Riverton City
     Attn: City Attorney
     12830 South Redwood Road
Last Update Date                          Riverton City Contract #                       Page 18 of 32
     Riverton, UT 84065
     (801) 254-0704



          10.1. Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this MDA, each Notice

          shall be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:

               10.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service,

               or by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally

               delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation

               of transmission receipt of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day, then

               notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

               10.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email

               provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or

               personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an

               electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same

               day, then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal

               delivery occurs.

               10.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid,

               by First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to

               the United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this MDA

               by giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this

               Section.

     11. Headings. The captions used in this MDA are for convenience only and a not intended

to be substantive provisions or evidences of intent.


Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                         Page 19 of 32
     12. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This MDA does not create a joint venture

relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City, or Master Developer. Further,

the parties do not intend this MDA to create any third-party beneficiary rights. The Parties

acknowledge that this MDA refers to a private development and that the City has no interest in,

responsibility for or duty to any third parties concerning any improvements to the Property or

unless the City has accepted the dedication of such improvements at which time all rights and

responsibilities—except for warranty bond requirements under City’s Vested Laws and as

allowed by state law—for the dedicated public improvement shall be the City's.

     13. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of Master Developer under this MDA may

be assigned in whole or in part, respectively, by Master Developer with the consent of the City as

provided herein.

          13.1. Sale of Lots. Master Developer’s selling or conveying lots in any approved

          Subdivision or Parcels to builders, users, or Subdevelopers, shall not be deemed to be an

          “assignment” subject to the above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically

          designated as such an assignment by Master Developer.

          13.2. Related Entity. Master Developer’s transfer of all or any part of the Property to

          any entity “related” to Master Developer (as defined by regulations of the Internal

          Revenue Service in Section 165), Master Developer’s entry into a joint venture for the

          development of the Project or Master Developer’s pledging of part or all of the Project as

          security for financing shall also not be deemed to be an “assignment” subject to the

          above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically designated as such an

          assignment by the Master Developer. Master Developer shall give the City Notice of any

          event specified in this sub-section within fifteen (15) calendar days after the event has
Last Update Date                            Riverton City Contract #                         Page 20 of 32
          occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact

          information for the newly responsible party.

          13.3. Notice. Master Developer shall give Notice to the City of any proposed

          assignment and provide such information regarding the proposed assignee that the City

          may reasonably request in making the evaluation permitted under this Section. Such

          Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact information for the

          proposed assignee.

          13.4. Time for Objection. Unless the City objects in writing within thirty (30) calendar

          days of notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to the

          assignment.

          13.5. Partial Assignment. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Master

          Developer’s rights and responsibilities then the assignee shall be responsible for the

          performance of each of the obligations contained in this MDA to which the assignee

          succeeds. Upon any such approved partial assignment Master Developer shall not be

          released from any future obligations as to those obligations which are assigned but shall

          remain responsible for the performance of any obligations herein.

          13.6. Denial. The City may only withhold its consent if the City is not reasonably

          satisfied of the assignee’s financial ability to perform the obligations of or Master

          Developer proposed to be assigned or there is an existing breach of a development

          obligation owed to the City by the assignee or related entity that has not either been cured

          or in the process of being cured in a manner acceptable to the City. Any refusal of the

          City to accept an assignment shall be subject to the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation”

          processes specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the refusal is subject to Arbitration as
Last Update Date                            Riverton City Contract #                          Page 21 of 32
          provided in Section 5.8 then the Parties shall follow such processes.

          13.7. Assignees Bound by MDA. Any assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by

          the assigned terms and conditions of this MDA as a condition precedent to the

          effectiveness of the assignment. That consent shall specifically acknowledge the

          provisions of Section 2.

     14. Binding Effect. If Master Developer sells or conveys Parcels of lands to Subdevelopers

or related parties, the lands so sold and conveyed shall bear the same rights, privileges,

configurations, and number of Residential Dwelling Units as applicable to such Parcel and be

subject to the same limitations and rights of the City when owned by or Master Developer and as

set forth in this MDA without any required approval, review, or consent by the City except as

otherwise provided herein.

     15. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be

deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some

future date any such right or any other right it may have.

     16. Severability. If any provision of this MDA is held by a court of competent jurisdiction

to be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this MDA shall be deemed

amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the balance of this

MDA shall remain in full force and affect.

     17. Force Majeure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation

under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,

equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions,

regulations or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil

commotions, fires or other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party
Last Update Date                           Riverton City Contract #                          Page 22 of 32
obligated to perform hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a

period equal to the duration of that prevention, delay or stoppage.

     18. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this MDA and every right or

responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

     19. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to

cooperate in the implementation of this MDA, the City and Master Developer each shall

designate and appoint a representative to act as a liaison between the City and its various

departments and the Master Developer. The initial representative for the City shall be the City

Manager. The initial representative for Master Developer shall be xxxxx. The Parties may

change their designated representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be available at all

reasonable times to discuss and review the performance of the Parties to this MDA and the

development of the Project.

     20. Applicable Law. This MDA is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of Utah and

shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah irrespective of Utah’s choice

of law rules.

     21. Venue. Any action to enforce this MDA shall be brought only in the Third District Court

for the State of Utah, Salt Lake City Division.

     22. Entire Agreement. This MDA, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement between

the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by a

subsequent written amendment signed by all Parties.

     23. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this MDA and

therefore no provision of this MDA shall be construed for or against any Party based on which

Party drafted any particular portion of this MDA.
Last Update Date                         Riverton City Contract #                         Page 23 of 32
     24. Recordation and Running with the Land. This MDA shall be recorded in the chain of

title for the Project. This MDA shall be deemed to run with the land.

     25. Authority. The Parties to this MDA each warrant that they have all of the necessary

authority to execute this MDA. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature of the City

Manager of the City is affixed to this MDA lawfully binding the City pursuant to Resolution No.

___ adopted by the City on month xx, 20xx.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through

their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.

MASTER DEVELOPER                                CITY
party to MDA                                    Riverton City

_______________________                        _____________________
By: ________________                           By: ___________,
Its: _________________                         Its: City Manager
Date: ____________                             Date: ____________

Approved as to form and legality:               Attest:

__________________                              __________________
City Attorney                                   City Recorder

CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                  )
                                   :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On the _xx__ day of month, 20xx personally appeared before me ___________who being by me
duly sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Riverton City, a political subdivision of the
State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by authority of its City
Council and said City Manager acknowledged to me that the City executed the same.




Last Update Date                          Riverton City Contract #                         Page 24 of 32
                                             __________________________________
                                             NOTARY PUBLIC


My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________


MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On the _xx__ day of month, 20xx, personally appeared before me ______________, who
being by me duly sworn, did say that he is the Manager of Michel Land, a Utah limited liability
company and that the foregoing instrument was duly authorized by the company at a lawful
meeting held by authority of its operating agreement and signed in behalf of said company.

                                                        ______________________________
                                                        NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




Last Update Date                       Riverton City Contract #                       Page 25 of 32
                   TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit “A”                Legal Description of Property
Exhibit “B”                Subdivision Plan
Exhibit “C”                Stormwater Management Plan
Exhibit “D”                Landscape Watering Provisions
Exhibit “E”                Revegetation Plan
Exhibit “F”                Sound Mitigation Plan




Last Update Date     Riverton City Contract #              Page 26 of 32
                           Exhibit “A”
                   Legal Description of Property




Last Update Date         Riverton City Contract #   Page 27 of 32
                     Exhibit “B”
                   Subdivision Plan




Last Update Date   Riverton City Contract #   Page 28 of 32
                          Exhibit “C”
                   Stormwater Management Plan




Last Update Date        Riverton City Contract #   Page 29 of 32
                           Exhibit “D”
                   Landscape Watering Provisions




Last Update Date         Riverton City Contract #   Page 30 of 32
                     Exhibit “E”
                   Revegetation Plan




Last Update Date   Riverton City Contract #   Page 31 of 32
                       Exhibit “F”
                   Sound Mitigation Plan




Last Update Date     Riverton City Contract #   Page 32 of 32
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               11
September 12, 2024


       E.     MCCAY DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT, PLZ-24-6001, DEVELOPMENT
              AGREEMENT FOR 2682 WEST 13400 SOUTH, ESTABLISHING
              REQUIREMENTS,     STANDARDS,     AND    PARAMETERS    FOR
              DEVELOPMENT OF APPROXIMATELY .32 ACRES LOCATED AT 2682
              WEST 13400 SOUTH, WITH ZONING SET TO RM-6 AND ALLOWING UP
              TO THREE (3) ATTACHED UNITS ON THAT PROPERTY. PROPOSED BY
              DANIEL MCCAY REPRESENTING EVOLUTION DEVELOPMENT.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the Staff Report and stated that the parcel is on the northeast
corner of 13400 South and 2700 West and is currently vacant. Some concerns had been
expressed about whether the property is buildable. In 2018, the owner at the time was
issued a Land Disturbance Permit, dug a hole, and then abandoned the project. No Building
Permit was issued. The City addressed that as an enforcement issue and the hole was
backfilled to its current condition. The lot meets the minimum square footage requirements
for the R3 zone. He noted that it is possible that soil issues would need to be addressed
prior to building.

The application was for a Development Agreement, which is different from a rezone
application and is normally initiated by the City. In this case, the applicant initiated the
process. As there is no formal process in place for this situation, the applicant submitted a
Rezoning application. Per Utah State Code 10-9a-532(2)(iii), a Development Agreement
can be utilized to allow things zoning may otherwise prohibit provided that it is treated as a
rezoning application with a public hearing, review, and recommendation from the Planning
Commission.

If approved, the Development Agreement would rezone the property to RM-6, which requires
a minimum of 0.5 acres. The property is only 0.33 acres and does not qualify for rezoning,
so the Development Agreement addresses that variance. The agreement also allows for up
to three attached units, whereas the RM-6 zones require detached units. The setbacks
would be 10 feet on the east side and 20 feet on the west side, which exceed the minimum
allowed by the Ordinance. The Development Agreement also proposed to allow fencing at
existing standards, not solid masonry as required by the Ordinance.

Mr. Lethbridge noted that the Development Agreement functions like a Rezoning request,
which allows for broader discretion to determine whether the zoning, density, and other
standards requested in the Development Agreement are appropriate to the property and the
area. If the Planning Commission required more information, they could table the issue.
They could also recommend approval, with or without modifications, or denial.

Commissioner Cluff stated that the Development Agreement appeared to be a template as
dates were missing and the term “Project Name” was present in multiple places rather than
the actual name of the project. She noted that Section D, Recitals, indicates that the
Development Agreement was being requested to resolve Land Use and transportation
difficulties created by the expansion of Redwood Road. Mr. Lethbridge stated that that was
an error that needs to be corrected. The purpose of the Development Agreement is to
provide as much detail as possible on the project. Currently, there is a section in the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 12
September 12, 2024


agreement that shows where exceptions would be required to the default Ordinance that
would otherwise apply to the project. Usually when a Development Agreement is presented,
the Planning Commission is invited to focus on the uses for the property and what the
exceptions would be, and then the final agreement is assembled and completed prior to City
Council review. The Planning Commission’s focus should be on the Land Use aspects of
the project. Development Agreements are typically not finalized prior to review by the
Planning Commission, but the salient details are included.

Chair Matheson stated that Development Agreements are usually approved for large
projects, and this is a very small project. He asked why the agreement was necessary.
Mr. Lethbridge stated that it is the owner’s prerogative to decide the way in which they seek
permission to develop their property. Rezoning, Development Agreements, and Text
Amendment applications are all options. Development Agreements are widely regarded as
tools that can assist the City in working out the challenges of developing uniquely situated
or sized properties, large or small. It was a useful tool to develop Mountain View Village
because it was a large-scale, mixed-use project and it was premature in that instance to
determine exactly how things would be laid out in terms of, for example, residential use
related to commercial use. However, that Development Agreement included details on how
the final decisions would be made, and the Planning Commission had since reviewed a
number of Site Plans pursuant to the terms of that Development Agreement. Mr. Lethbridge
gave the example of a recent Development Agreement that was approved for the
development of a small-scale commercial project across the street. The details of the project
were unique. It is a viable tool regardless of the scale of the project.

Commissioner Cluff stated that other Development Agreements the Commission has
reviewed were initiated by or with the City Council and asked if that was the case with this
agreement. Mr. Lethbridge clarified that nothing was brought to the City Council but that is
not a necessary step for consideration.

The applicant, Dan McCay stated that he has lived in Riverton for 27 years. He serves as a
State Legislator, and his wife serves on the City Council. His wife, Tawnee McCay, has
agreed to step aside and not consider the application. For over 20 years, he has driven by
the corner of 2700 West and 13400 South and hated it. It has been a weed patch the entire
time. In 2018, he thought a home would be built on the corner, but unfortunately, it just
became a hole. He spoke with neighbors two months ago, and some neighbors referred to
the hole as “the pit.” It is a safety hazard. He decided to purchase the lot. When he spoke
with neighbors, their primary concern was that it is not zoned commercial. He believes the
lot is too small for commercial. It is in a residential zone.

Mr. McCay referred to the traffic counts for the intersection and noted that, with the exception
of Redwood Road, there are no residentially zoned properties with such a high traffic count.
If current and projected traffic counts were known when the subdivision was created in the
1980s, there would not have been a home on a 0.33-acre lot on that corner because it is not
a viable low-density residential lot. He once asked the City about putting a park on the lot,
but it was decided that children should not be encouraged to play on that corner. They
discussed different options for the property and looked at the townhomes being built in
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    13
September 12, 2024


Mountain View Village by Edge Homes. He believes they can build either similar or the
same townhomes on the lot. The footprint is tight, but the ground floor has similar square
footage to the adjacent homes.

They considered trying to alley-load the townhomes, but the Rocky Mountain Power
easement for a guy-wire makes that almost impossible because it would interfere with left-
hand turns at the intersection. They then looked at the front of the property. The City
requires a 25-foot driveway in the RM-3 zone, but he does not believe that leaves enough
room for a car to turn around or for parking. They decided to move the townhomes to the
rear of the property to provide parking in front. They also tried to keep the building as far as
possible to the east to allow a view corridor at the intersection.

Mr. McCay stated that when considering how best to use the lot, they considered the best
way to accommodate neighbors’ concerns. They heard concerns about traffic, and he
appreciated the opportunity to have those conversations. He hoped that neighboring
property owners did not feel that it was adversarial. He believed it was an opportunity to ask
what could be done with the lot. It is not an easy lot to develop, as evidenced by the fact
that it has been vacant for over 40 years.

Commissioner Park asked if it would be possible to rotate the townhomes 90 degrees so
they front on 2700 West and alley load off 13400 South as that could alleviate some of the
ingress and egress concerns. He understands that it is a difficult lot. The City backfilled the
hole because he caught kids playing there and it could have collapsed on top of them. It is
a safety concern and a blight that he would love to see developed, but they need to
determine how best to do that. Mr. McCay stated that they are willing to consider all options,
including rotating the structure. The rendering shows the building facing 13400 South
because they felt it was the best fit. The lot is slightly wider than deep, and the electrical
line inhibits development somewhat. The alley load also does not provide for as much
parking and parking is restricted all around the lot.

Commissioner Park stated that a primary concern expressed in the public comments is that
a development such as this is incongruent with the neighborhood and opens the door for
other similar developments. The nearest similar development is 1.5 miles away in Mountain
View Village. Mr. McCay stated that he believes it will be a long time before Mr. Carlson
decides to sell his property, but he is hopeful that when development occurs it will be done
as a master plan. A freeway interchange is going in, and that intersection will close to east-
west traffic for 10 months. When the property develops, he is hopeful it will have a
commercial component on the south end near Bangerter Highway and residential to the
north. He does not believe they will face residential on 13400 South or 2700 West; rather,
it will face internally, and they will plan for ingress and egress as part of the traffic planning.
He believes there will be one or two entries on 13400 South and more on 2700 West.

Commissioner Park pointed out that the Kauri Sue Hamiton School is on one corner, a
church is on the other corner, and the surrounding neighborhood is single-family homes.
One three-unit townhome would be incongruent. Mr. McCay stated that of all the properties,
only one is on a vacant lot that is zoned residential and facing two extremely busy streets.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                14
September 12, 2024


It has been undeveloped for a reason. He believes he will lose money regardless of how it
is developed, and he is trying to mitigate the loss while attempting to find a way to provide
housing for the next generation.

Mr. McCay stated that he heard testimony earlier that was not true; high-density housing
does not cause an immediate decrease in home values. It usually sets a floor for
neighboring residential units. The townhomes will sell for approximately $450,000. He does
not believe anyone would build a $750,000 house on that corner. If they did, they could
build an accessory dwelling unit and have two units on the lot, and he is only asking for one
additional unit. He understands that it is uncharacteristic, but he is concerned with the
housing crisis in Utah. His children would love to buy a home nearby. Twenty years ago,
the average home buyer in Utah was 26 years old, and now it is 36 years old. Many
neighbors spent less than $450,000 on their homes 20 or more years previously. While
attached homes are out of the ordinary, the pricing is not. He believes that young families
who want to live in the area will be looking at townhomes, but residents seem to want to
solve the housing crisis somewhere else.

Commissioner Cluff indicated that the diagram shows three driveways with only one drive
approach and asked if all three driveways would have a drive approach cut into the curb.
Mr. McCay confirmed that they would. There would be a 30-foot setback from the curb to
the first driveway as required by the RM-3 zone. Ideally, he would like to find a way to allow
turnarounds, but he is unsure how to accomplish that. The driveways would each fit two
cars, and the homes would have two-car garages.

Commissioner Cluff noted that a lot of people have spoken in opposition to the project and
asked if a duplex-style structure would be more appropriate. Mr. McCay stated that he has
not considered that option due to the financial constraints and practical limitations of the
property, but they are willing to consider other options. He noted that 141 people were
notified of the public hearing, but less than half of them expressed opposition, and most
people he spoke to stated that they did not care what was built on the property.
Commissioner Cluff stated that, in her experience, that is a very high ratio of opposition.

She was concerned about approving the Development Agreement, which skips a lot of steps
in the process when Mr. McCay had indicated that there are many things he had not yet
considered. She asked at what point he expected to have those things finalized. Mr. McCay
stated it is a boilerplate agreement because they are only asking for a few exceptions,
although he understands that some are major exceptions. If the Planning Commission
recommended approval, they planned to take it to the City Council to help flesh out the
agreement.

Commissioner Matheson stated that the diagram indicated that cars would have to back out
onto 13400 South, which is a very busy street. He sees how difficult it is for cars to back out
onto 1300 West, and this intersection is at least as busy. He asked if they would consider a
single-family home or duplex with a driveway on the east side and enough room to turn
around. Mr. McCay stated that he would love to find a way to allow cars to face 13400 South
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                15
September 12, 2024


as they exit and indicated that most of the driveways along 13400 South require cars to back
out.

Commissioner Park reiterated the concerns about ingress and egress and noted that the
Development Agreement will set the parameters for the maximum number of units and
setbacks. Mr. McCay stated that one limitation he would like added is a maximum of two
stories. Some neighbors were not concerned about the density, but they did not want it to
be three stories. Commissioner Park stated that the sketch is not reflective of what the final
product could be as that is still to be determined by the City Council. Mr. McCay stated that
he believes his plan would work with the lot and is buildable, but it is the beginning of the
process, and he is open to additional considerations.

In response to a question from Commissioner Park, Mr. Lethbridge stated that neither road
is controlled by the Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”), so Riverton standards
would determine access management.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing.

Angel Reyes has been a resident of Riverton for over 12 years. His family lives two streets
north of the subject property and he was opposed to the request. He believes the property
owner is using the Development Agreement as a backdoor way to obtain approval. He and
his neighbors love that it is a single-family, residential zone, and he believes approval would
set a precedent and open the door to multifamily development on the nearby field. That is
an issue in Herriman, and he believes what makes Riverton a desirable city is the larger lots.

Dan Chadwell stated that he lives four houses to the east of the subject property. They
received notice of the public hearing on September 3, 2024, so they did not have a lot of
time to react. They circulated a petition, which was submitted to the Planning Commission.
Residents believe that three townhouses on .032 acres are too many. They are concerned
about allowing RM-3 zoning in a single-family residential area. In the few days it was
circulated, 78 residents signed the petition against construction of the townhomes. The pit
on the lot is terrible, but he does not know why something needs to be constructed there.
He asked if it could be used for water retention.

Braden Natter stated that he lives on a cul-de-sac adjacent to the subject property. He
thanked Mr. McCay for taking on the ambitious project, but he believed putting a triplex in
that busy intersection is a dangerous proposition. He does not see why a single-family
residence with perhaps a mother-in-law apartment would not work. He works in residential
lending, so he knows that it is cheaper and more profitable to build up than out. He noted
that Mr. McCay leans into the family aspect, and he appreciates that because he shares the
same concerns. However, Mr. and Mrs. McCay own a fourplex approximately one mile
north, so they do have the option to house their kids there. He supports building on that lot,
but he does not support a triplex. He believes it should remain a single-family residence.

Dennis Gordon stated that he lives three houses to the north of the subject property. The
lot is an eyesore and has been for decades, and the pit made it worse. The gentleman who
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  16
September 12, 2024


owned it previously passed away in 2018. Before he passed away, he attempted to have it
rezoned for a duplex and was denied by the City Council. That intersection has had 16
serious accidents in the last 14 months. Someone backing out at that intersection would be
very dangerous, especially at night. It would also set a precedent of multiple units on a small
lot. Additionally, if similar requests were denied in the future in other areas of the City, that
would not look good because that the owner of the lot sits on the City Council.

Kelly Peterson stated that he lives on Vista Meadows Drive, and he is not in favor of the
development. He worked in affordable housing for over 17 years and has seen many similar
developments. He built townhomes in Cedar City and Roosevelt, and the garages are used
as storage units and cars are parked in the driveway. Families grow, move out, and turn the
townhomes into rentals. Tenants often have roommates, which requires more parking.
There is no parking on 2700 West or 13400 South. The default parking is in the church
parking lot across the road, which would not be fair to the church. He worked with
Development Agreements, and they can be vague. If the City moves forward, the agreement
should specify what the developer can and cannot do. It was not brought forward to the City
Council in a public meeting. He asked if it was brought to them in a closed-door meeting or
work meeting that the public did not know about. He was unable to sign the petition because
he was out of town, but he and his wife were also opposed. The house to the east has a
turnout, and he suggested making this a duplex with access on both roads.

Mark Webb stated that he does not live in the neighborhood, but his original intention was
to oppose the project. Mr. McCay purchased the property and is trying to do something with
it. His understanding is that Mr. McCay wants to build three units in order to recoup his
investment. He believes it is too much for the corner, but he understands where he is coming
from. If the plan were modified so cars could turn around on the property, he would be in
favor of the development. He would not want to purchase a single-family home on that
corner, but people think of townhomes differently.

Nyall London does not see how putting three homes on the lot would be better or safer than
one single-family home. He is concerned about the possible conflict of interest with the
proposal. The McCays own the parcel and will profit from the proposal, but they are also
elected representatives who could influence their peers and associates to make a decision
that benefits them. He believes there is a conflict between what they want and what is good
for Riverton, and he is uncomfortable with that conflict. He is concerned that, because
Tawnee McCay is on the City Council, she may have undue influence over their decision. If
it were owned by someone else, there would be no conflict. It would be nice to have a green
park there with a memorial for fallen residents. There would be no issues with traffic, and it
would be a benefit to the neighborhood.

David Young stated that his home is adjacent to the subject property. He noted that
Mr. McCay stated that, based on the traffic study, no developer would build a single-family
home on the lot, but he wants to build three homes on the lot. It sits on a basic intersection
with one lane and a turn lane in each direction, but there have still been 16 accidents in just
over a year. There have been no major injuries, but at least one vehicle has been towed in
each accident. He is concerned about opening the floodgates for high-density housing
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   17
September 12, 2024


across the street because he believes the types of owners and tenants in high-density
housing are not desirable for Riverton. Regarding parking, this type of housing usually has
multiple families or roommates. He is unsure whose doors Mr. McCay knocked on, but he
got signatures for the petition and a lot of people did not answer their door even though they
were home. He believes he speaks for all residents of the area when he says that Riverton
does not want more high-density housing.

Heather Fairmont stated that she lives adjacent to the subject property. She is young for
the neighborhood, but she attained her American dream of building her home. She does
not believe it is appropriate to zone a parcel in a residential area for high-density housing.
She moved from West Valley due to the high-density housing there. It will open the
floodgates and cause more problems. If their children do not believe in creating the
American dream, they need to work harder.

Candy London stated that she cannot let the implication go by that residents of the
neighborhood are okay with the proposal. She was also part of the petition. Of the 20
houses on her street, 18 of them signed the petition. She was unable to speak to the two
who did not sign. She assured the Commission that residents are not in favor of high-density
housing on that corner.

Adrian Russell stated that he lives nearby. A lot of people who did not sign the petition or
send emails have made comments in the neighborhood Facebook group indicating they are
against the proposed development. It is a neighborhood of single-family homes, and they
would like to stay that way. Traffic is an issue, as Mr. McCay brought up.

_________ commented that he does not believe a triplex makes sense for that corner.

Lynn Strom stated that he has driven through that intersection during rush hour, and traffic
is backed up. He assumes that the road will eventually need to be widened for right turn
lanes, and at that point, the lot will be smaller. If so, that should be taken into consideration.
Right-turn lanes would make the intersection safer and allow traffic to flow more smoothly.
The alternative would be to improve mass transit.

Brett Musko stated that he lives northeast of the subject property. It was mentioned earlier
in the meeting that it is not the City’s job to maximize a property owner’s return on
investment, and that applies to this property as well. He does not see how three driveways
could be less dangerous than one. When the lot was purchased, it was zoned RR-22. Cars
backing out into traffic is a concern. He appreciates that the Planning Commission
acknowledges the City’s obligation to its residents, and he would also appreciate it if they
consider neighboring property values and only allow a single-family home on the lot.

Michael Baird stated that he lives three streets from the subject property, and he is strongly
opposed to rezoning the parcel. As he looked at the map and thought about three
townhomes compared to all the single-family homes, he thought to himself that one of these
homes is not like the others. He appreciated the Commission’s time and echoed his
neighbors’ comments. He also appreciates them protecting homeowners’ property values.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                18
September 12, 2024



Ricky Martinez stated that he lives one street from the subject property. He is a successful
real estate agent, and he knows a lot of people who live on that street. If the application
goes through, he will be calling all of them and encouraging them to build triplexes on their
lots. He hopes that does not happen.

Natalie Brigman stated that she lives to the north of the subject property. She did not plan
to speak at the meeting, but the topic has been discussed heavily in the neighborhood and
nobody is in favor of it. She understands wanting to develop the property, but not with three
$450,000 homes. If someone else wants to sell their home, they can only sell it for the value
of their single home. She wished someone would have come to her door so she could sign
the petition, but she likely would not have answered her door. Her neighbors would have
also signed, adding four more names to the petition. She knows the developer has to obtain
permits to build on the property, and she does not see the City issuing a permit to build three
driveways so she thinks there will only be one. She is all for developing the property, but it
would be ridiculous to build three townhomes.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff recognized the difficulty of the lot, which is why it has been undeveloped
for a long time. However, she believes that just because something can work on a property
does not mean it is the right fit. Three townhomes would be out of character for the
neighborhood, and safety would be a concern due to the proximity to the intersection. She
does not have a better solution to offer, but she does not believe the project would be to the
benefit of the City.

Commissioner Park stated that he is conflicted on the matter. He appreciates the fact that
Mr. McCay purchased the lot to try to improve it for everyone, including the neighbors. He
applauds that effort because everyone agrees that something needs to be done with the lot.
It is a difficult lot, and he finds it hard to believe that someone would purchase a large,
expensive home on that corner. He also appreciates the neighborhood activating and
showing up. Everyone has a stake in the decision, including the Commissioners because it
is their City, too. They sit on the Planning Commission because they want Riverton to
develop in such a way that they and their children want to live in. He wants his children to
be proud of their hometown. Something must be done with the parcel, but he did not know
if this was the right project for it. He hoped that whatever the Commission decided to
recommend, they could come together to help the McCays determine the best way to use
the parcel.

Chair Matheson stated that he was not conflicted. He appreciated Mr. McCay’s effort to
develop the parcel, but it is zoned for one single-family home. Allowing more units on the
parcel would open the possibility of other people tearing down their houses and building
multiple units on other lots, which would degrade the neighborhood. He was against a triplex
as he did not believe it was the right thing to do.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  19
September 12, 2024


In response to a question from Commissioner Knudsen, it was verified that the
Commission’s options were to recommend approval, denial, or other options to address
traffic concerns. Whether the City could consider purchasing the parcel for a retention basin
or park would be at the discretion of the City Council, but the Commission could include that
as a suggestion to the Council.

Chair Matheson clarified that the Planning Commission would make a recommendation to
the City Council, and the Council would make the final decision. Tawnee McCay is on the
City Council but plans to recuse herself from the matter.

Commissioner Park stated that Mr. and Mrs. McCay do not have any undue influence over
the Planning Commission. The Commission would make the decision they felt was best for
everyone involved. He did not want to recommend denial. He preferred to move to continue
and allow Mr. McCay to come back with a proposal that is more palatable to the Commission
and neighborhood residents. Chair Matheson asked Staff if that was a possibility. It was
clarified that it could be one possible outcome, especially if they continued it with the
expectation that the applicant return with additional proposals.

Chair Matheson stated that his bias is that the property should not be rezoned. If another
proposal were presented that would be acceptable to residents and the Commission, he
would consider it. Mr. McCay indicated that he would be willing to return with additional
proposals.

In response to a question, it was clarified that if the Planning Commission recommended
denial, the City Council would hold a public hearing and consider that recommendation. The
Planning Commission would not consider the issue again. If the matter were continued,
they would ultimately need to make a recommendation for approval or denial. If the Council
were to deny based on the Planning Commission’s recommendation, there would be a
waiting period before the same application could be presented again. A materially different
application could be presented immediately.

Commissioner Cluff stated that she was comfortable with continuing the matter to give the
applicant a chance to present a more workable plan. Commissioner Park stated that he
would support that with the stipulation that the entrance into the lot is addressed. His
preference would be to alley load with a single entrance. It was noted that the plan the
applicant presented met the setback requirement, but the requirement may not be sufficient
for that intersection. The intersection will eventually have right-turn lanes, but that expansion
will not affect the subject property. Chair Matheson stated that he was not in favor of a
triplex and would be concerned about a duplex because that would change the zoning.

Commissioner Cluff moved the Planning Commission CONTINUE Application PLZ-
24-6001 to the October 10, 2024, Planning Commission Meeting, allowing the
applicant to present a proposal that better addresses safety concerns with parking
and entrance and exit to the property, as well as lowered density. Commissioner Beck
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.
                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                OCTOBER 10, 2024

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Evan Matheson, Chair                             Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
Monique Beck                                     Matt Cassel, City Engineer
Gary Cannon                                      Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Shelly Cluff                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Crystal Keele

1.            CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Evan Matheson called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 PM.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     “MCCAY    DEVELOPMENT     AGREEMENT,”     PLZ-24-6001, AN
              APPLICATION TO DEVELOP PROPERTY AT 2682 WEST 13400 SOUTH
              WITH EXCEPTIONS TO THE CITY CODE. THIS ITEM WAS CONTINUED
              FROM THE SEPTEMBER 12, 2024, PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING.
              APPLICANT – DANIEL MCCAY.

Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge presented the Staff Report and stated
that the subject property is a vacant lot on the corner of 13400 South and 2700 West. The
application was for a Development Agreement, which is a newer tool for Riverton City that
can allow variations on existing Code. The application was tabled at the last meeting to
allow the applicant time to respond to concerns and provide additional information.

Commissioner Cannon indicated that he was not present at the September 12, 2024,
Planning Commission Meeting but he reviewed the minutes at length. He asked the purpose
behind not going through the regular rezoning process. Mr. Lethbridge noted that in the past
the City initiated the Development Agreement process for larger developments such as
Mountain View Village and this application was the first instance of an applicant requesting
a Development Agreement. Both City Ordinance and State Code allow developers to apply
for such agreements rather than request rezoning or Code changes.

City Attorney, Ryan Carter stated that with smaller projects, even if the rezoning is approved
for higher density, there may still be problems with rules regarding things like setback
requirements. A Development Agreement is a tailored ordinance. He referred to Section
3.2.1 on page 8 of the proposed Development Agreement, which contains a list of exceptions
to vested law. These are areas where the project envisioned by the applicant would not
comply with the existing Zoning Code. The Development Agreement is a tool that allows
exceptions to Code that are unique to the specific project.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    2
October 10, 2024



In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, it was noted that State Code requires
Development Agreements to be treated with equal dignity to rezoning requests. They must
go through the same hearing processes, so they take the same amount of time. However,
a Development Agreement can speed up some of the site-specific processes.

Commissioner Cannon referred to the concept rendering and asked if that plan could
change. Mr. Carter stated that no exhibits were incorporated into the Development
Agreement and he did not believe the concept rendering had been stated to be an exhibit.
If the Development Agreement were approved, the criteria specifically listed in the
agreement could not change, but anything not specified could be altered.

Commissioner Cluff indicated that in other Development Agreements, there has been a clear
incentive or reason the City would be motivated to carve out exceptions for a specific
development and asked if that is standard practice. Mr. Lethbridge stated that has been the
case because Development Agreements have historically been initiated by the City.

The applicant, Daniel McCay stated that his takeaways from the September 12, 2024,
Planning Commission Meeting were that there were concerns about traffic, ingress, and
egress, as well as the proposed density. He also believed some residents took issue with
him being a free-market capitalist.

With regard to the first issue, the Traffic Study is a 26-year projection from 2024 to 2050
based on data obtained from the Wasatch Front Regional Council (“WFRC”). It indicates
that average daily trips on 2700 West will be capped at 7,900 in 2040 through 2050, although
Mr. McCay did not believe that included an analysis of traffic on 2700 West after the
Bangerter Highway interchange is completed. On 13400 South, traffic is expected to
increase from 11,000 daily trips to 16,000. He presented that information to Ryan Hales
from Hales Engineering, who recommended one ingress and egress point rather than three.
The west exit is favored. The light stops traffic, and visibility is best looking north and south.
Additionally, speeds are lower at the beginning of a block. There are also no plans for
expanding 2700 West north of 13400 South. The east exit is not favored because the light
causes traffic backups and there is less visibility. There are also plans to expand 13400
South, including a potential right-hand turn lane.

Mr. McCay presented his first option, which was for three proposed townhomes facing west
with a 15-foot shared driveway in front of the units. Residents would then have room to back
out of their private driveway and pull out onto the street instead of backing onto it. It would
be safer than the original proposal.

The second option was for two townhomes also facing west. The ground floor square
footage would be comparable between the two options. The property address is listed on
13400 South but he was open to the drive aisle being on either frontage.

The third option presented was for two separate homes facing 2700 West. The homes would
have the same floor plan as the two attached homes but with a small setback between them.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
October 10, 2024


Mr. McCay indicated that the homes would sit as far to the north as possible. People who
live in the area are used to being able to look across that lot and see approaching traffic, so
he would retain as much visibility on that corner as possible. Currently, there is a 15-foot
side yard setback but this option would require an exception for a 12-foot setback. He also
presented an option with the same homes facing 13400 South. Mr. McCay then presented
a cost comparison of the market values of the different home configurations.

Commissioner Cluff asked Mr. McCay to address Commissioner Cannon’s earlier question
about his intention with the Development Agreement versus a more traditional rezoning
application. Mr. McCay reported that he discussed the best approach with Staff. They
presented the option of amending the Ordinance to allow for his specific needs for the
property but he did not believe that was a viable solution. He believes a Development
Agreement is favorable because it will allow decisions to be made based on what is best
and most feasible for the lot.

With regard to why a single-family home was not an option, Mr. McCay stated that it would
not work financially. He believes the benefits of allowing the multi-family project to proceed
include correcting the safety and aesthetic issues with the existing lot.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, Mr. McCay confirmed that the
townhomes would each have a two-car garage. Commissioner Cannon stated that his
original concern about three driveways exiting on 13400 South was safety and visibility, and
he was glad it was addressed. He asked Staff how the side yard setbacks for each option
align with City Code, and it was noted that they are comparable to RM-6 setbacks.
Mr. McCay stated that the townhome footprints are narrower than the twin home footprints.
The twin homes have setbacks of 22 feet and 24 feet facing west. If separated, they are
approximately 10 feet apart. Separating the units adds cost to them, but it will also require
an exception for the side yard setbacks between and on the north side of units.

Chair Matheson stated that the property owner knew the parcel was zoned for a single-
family home when he purchased it and that it would require rezoning. He could not imagine
Mr. McCay would have purchased it had he not intended to make a profit. Mr. McCay stated
that he would make a profit of approximately 8.5%. He stated that he dislikes the lot and
would like to make it better. He knows that he purchased it with the existing zoning, and if
the Development Agreement was not approved, he intended to sell the property even if at a
loss. He was committed to finding something that works for the property and he believed
the zoning is the reason why the lot has remained vacant.

Commissioner Cluff stated that Mr. McCay is in the unique position of understanding the
views of both the developer and legislators and asked how he would feel as a developer if
he saw the open piece of farmland on one corner and single-family homes and a set of
townhomes on the other corners. Mr. McCay stated that he drove by the lot for 20 years
and never thought he could make a lot of money from it. He has three adult children looking
for a house who will likely have to buy in Eagle Mountain because Riverton is no longer a
community where families can build. A $400,000 or $500,000 townhome is very expensive
compared to what some homeowners in the area paid because the market has gone crazy.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  4
October 10, 2024


At the beginning of 2024, Utah was 37,000 homes behind what the market needs to provide
housing for the next generation.

When Mr. McCay built his second home in Riverton, it was on a 0.33-acre lot off 3600 West
and 12900 South. The houses next to it were horse properties with one-acre lots. At the
Planning Commission Meeting, a resident said that they did not want the Walmart kids that
were going to move into those houses to play with their Nordstrom kids, and he found that
very concerning. He believes the housing paradigm is upside down and they will be in a
worse situation in five or 10 years if they keep going down that path. For example, Denver,
Colorado has done away with its single-family density and no longer allows single-family
homes without Development Agreements.

Commissioner Cannon agreed that the lot is not attractive in its current state and anything
built on it will be an improvement. He believes Mr. McCay is trying to improve the lot and
deserves to make a profit on it. Mr. McCay was hoping his children would move into the
townhomes. Commissioner Cannon stated that to qualify for a home, you have to make
$110,000 per year, and he does not know many 30-year-olds who make that much. He
believed the application provided an opportunity to create more affordable homes in this
area of Riverton.

Commissioner Cluff asked if it would be precedent-setting to have a Development
Agreement for townhomes on this lot. Mr. Carter stated that approval would not force those
conditions to be spread throughout the area. The Planning Commission would need to
decide if approval would have persuasive strength in subsequent meetings, but each
application is considered individually. The Planning Commission considers the best use for
the property given market demands, the needs of the community, and the ability of public
infrastructure to serve it.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing.

Kenneth Beck reported that he lives three blocks from the subject property. He has lived in
Riverton for 73 years and used to farm on the subject property. He did not believe the lot
was big enough for two homes. It should have one home with a driveway to the south. He
was concerned that allowing townhomes would open up other properties to townhome
development. The intersection is already very congested especially before and after school.
He suggested that the City purchase the property and turn it into a park. Townhomes could
possibly be used as rentals, and they attract different people.

Darren Kirkham reported that he owns a property to the west of the church. He understands
what Mr. McCay is trying to do and believes he has good intentions, but it is not zoned as a
multi-family property for a reason. Other people have requested rezoning to multi-family
and were denied. If it was possible to only allow multi-family on the subject lot and not create
a precedent, he would be in favor of it. However, he believes it would set a precedent. If
the request were approved, he would consider requesting the same type of Development
Agreement. If he is thinking that way, many other property owners will consider it as well.
When the property across the street sells, that is space for multi-family housing. He lives in
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  5
October 10, 2024


the area and does not want it to look like Herriman, which is an overpopulated traffic
nightmare. He believes they would be trading an evil pit for the larger evil of setting the
precedent for many multi-family properties.

Candy London stated that when she thinks of a park for the property, she does not mean a
park with swings and children playing, but a grassy area like at the intersection of 12600
South and Redwood Road or the area north of the church on 2700 West. At the meeting on
September 12, 2024, the applicant before Mr. McCay wanted to develop multi-family housing
on Redwood Road. They were denied and told not to come back with a new proposal. They
knew how it was zoned when they purchased it, and they had a right to build according to
that zoning. She did not understand why this property was being revisited because if it
applied to the other applicant, it should apply to this applicant as well. She knows a lot of
people who have single-family homes with a full basement apartment, and that is a way to
have two families in a home without changing the character of the neighborhood.

Heather Fairmont reported that she lives adjacent to the subject property. Mr. McCay is a
senator and likes making money, and there are probably a lot of people on his payroll. She
believes multi-level housing brings low-class people to the neighborhood because she lived
in West Valley and saw that happen. She moved to a single-family, 0.25-acre lot minimum
neighborhood in Riverton for a reason. She is young and worked hard to afford her home.
The house to the north is a rental and it is not properly maintained. The owners will not keep
up their yard just because there is a new home behind it. Nobody wants multi-family homes
on the lot, and she believes they should maintain old town Riverton.

Kelly Peterson reported that he lives on Vista Meadows Drive. He circulated the petition
against the development around his neighborhood. He spent 10 to 15 minutes at each
house because he stopped to speak with people. Their main concern was the precedent
that would be set for the field across the road.

Nyall London stated that the petition forwarded to the Planning Commission indicated that
most residents want a single-family home on the lot, and he hoped they would consider that.
Everyone is worried about the property across the street, and he thought it would be
wonderful if Riverton could acquire that property and put a park there.

Tammy Chadwell referred to Mr. McCay’s comments about the property to the north of the
lot in question and stated that the property has always been unkempt. Her concern is that
if they build on the lot, there will be children living in the homes and children need places to
play. If too many homes are allowed on the lot, it will only leave a small area for children to
play in. Both parents will need to work to afford the homes. She has a 44-year-old son who
cannot afford a home in Utah, so she understands the desire to have affordable homes for
her children. A park was ruled out for the lot because of the danger to children, but if they
put homes there, they need to make sure there is enough room for a fenced yard so the
children can play.

Tracy Halverson reported that she lives on the west side of Riverton. High-density housing
is now allowed there and she cannot even get out into traffic. She spoke to Mr. McCay’s
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
October 10, 2024


comment about affordable housing and indicated that that was the legislature’s fault. First-
time buyer funds are already being distributed from tax dollars and she believes enough is
enough. Mr. McCay purchased the land knowing its zoning. If it is rezoned, she fears they
will do the same thing that was done across from her home where it is all high-density
housing. It would ruin the corner and look odd, and she urged the Planning Commission to
retain the current zoning.

Mike Baird lives within 1,000 feet of the subject property. He did not see Mr. McCay as an
evil capitalist but as a talented and skilled politician. His concerns were unchanged from the
previous meeting. It is a busy corner, and adding more homes will add issues with getting
in and out of the driveway. He appreciated the fact that Chair Matheson said he was against
rezoning at the last meeting. With regard to the park idea, the July 4th Parade goes by that
intersection, and a grassy area for people to watch the parade would be nice. He has seen
a lot of developers go bankrupt, and he knows a lot of people whose homes have lost value
due to high-density housing or commercial development. He was opposed to allowing multi-
family housing. The Planning Commission does a great job, but it is not their job to see that
developers make money. Instead, it is their job to ensure that citizens’ property values do
not decline.

Angel Reyes commented that the previous Planning Commission Meeting was the first City
meeting he has attended. Mr. Matheson began the meeting by stating that they echo the
voice of the people, and he respected that. At that meeting, they denied a similar
development on Redwood Road, and it was difficult not to believe that there was a conflict
of interest in the way this application was continued. He thought they seemed to be trying
to find a backdoor way to build multi-family homes in a single-family zone. At the last
meeting, only one person who spoke was in favor of the development, and he did not live in
the area.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Mr. McCay addressed the public comments. He appreciated Mr. Beck’s comment and
stated that it is important to remain connected to who we are.

With regard to the precedent approval may set to allow townhomes on the farm to the south,
the General Plan for the property is a minimum lot size of 10,000 square feet, which is
approximately 3.5 units per acre. He appreciated the anxiety of having a farm across the
street and not knowing what it would be in the future and believed it would likely have a
commercial component. If he were the developer, he would try to have a commercial use
on the Bangerter Highway frontage, and as a resident, he would be more afraid of
commercial uses than of $400,000 or $500,000 townhomes because retail areas attract
more crime. Retail also has more trips per day than townhomes. The City also wants sales
tax revenue from retail developments, and he believes the Planning Commission and City
Council would allow high-density housing along with the retail. When Walmart came in on
13400 South, everyone hated the idea. The area was originally planned to include a movie
theater complex and retail space. Residents sued the developer to stop the Walmart, and
as a result, all of the other retail went to 11400 South. The Walmart was built with high-
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   7
October 10, 2024


density housing surrounding it. In his experience, the bigger concern is what happens with
retail.

With respect to the statement that properties can have Accessory Dwelling Units (“ADU”),
he did not believe that would be an effective solution for this property.

With regard to the statement that because he is a senator, Mr. McCay has a lot of people
on his payroll, he stated that he is self-employed and has no employees.

With respect to conflicts of interest, he stated that his wife has been on the Riverton City
Council for seven years. She has recused herself from the conversation related to the
property and will not vote on the issue.

Pertaining to the assertion that townhomes will bring low-class people to Riverton, he did
not have an answer because things like that should not be said about people who might live
in the community.

He understood the concern about children living on the property and is trying to preserve as
much backyard space as possible. He did not like including room for turnarounds in front of
the units, but he was trying to weigh that safety benefit against the loss of the backyard.
Within a few feet of the lot is Kauri Sue Hamilton School, which has a big field and a large
playground area. Centennial Park is also down the street. He did not know if a skilled
politician would ever develop and ask to increase density in their own neighborhood, and he
believes he is losing votes by trying to improve the corner.

Mr. McCay asked for the Planning Commission’s input on their preferences for the property.
If the Planning Commission determined that the only path to approval would be a single-
family home, he would take the matter to the City Council and ask if they agree. If they do
not agree, he will consider other options to bring back before the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Cannon lives close to the subject property and recognizes the pride residents
have in their neighborhood. The City is not in the business of buying property to build parks,
and he does not believe a lighted corner is the best place for children to play. Kauri Sue
Hamilton School is across the street. They have a large park and do not complain about
children playing in the park after school hours. If multi-family housing is allowed on the
subject property, it will not automatically allow for multi-family across the street. There is an
existing trailer court to the south, which is multi-family housing. He would also likely speak
in opposition to the project if he lived in the neighborhood, but he believes it is the highest
and best use for the property. It will provide more affordable housing, which Riverton needs.

Chair Matheson believes that the farm to the south will be developed with interior roads for
ingress and egress and access to Bangerter Highway and become high-density housing but
noted that the property is very different from the small corner lot that is zoned for single-
family housing. He was opposed to rezoning the property for something that did not fit the
neighborhood. Years earlier, he served as a Republican State Delegate, and Mr. McCay
came to his home at midnight and spoke until about 1:00 a.m. He was very impressed with
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
October 10, 2024


Mr. McCay’s diligence. However, this was a different issue. He did not believe it would be
safe to build multi-family homes on that corner. The farm to the south is an issue for the
future. He believes Mr. McCay considered the zoning when he purchased the property and
decided to take his chances. If the Planning Commission were to approve the Development
Agreement, it would appear that they were doing so based on Mr. McCay’s status as a
senator rather than the will of the people, and he did not believe that was a good precedent
to set. He believes it should be a single-family home, potentially with an ADU.

Commissioner Cluff thanked her fellow Commissioners for their thoughts. She did not
believe multi-family housing was a fit for this parcel. She does not like how the property
currently looks but believes there are other ways to improve it. She noted that two
developers have expressed how excited they would be to see multi-family housing
approved, and how eagerly they would seek out their own multi-family projects. She was
inclined to deny the application.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission forward a
recommendation of DENIAL of Application PLZ-24-6001, adopting the Development
Agreement for 2682 West 13400 South, thus keeping the existing R-2 Single Family
Zoning. Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner
Keele-Yes, Commissioner Matheson-Yes, Commissioner Cluff-Yes, Commissioner
Beck-Yes, Commissioner Cannon-No. The motion passed 4-to-1.

       B.     “MY STORAGE AMENDMENT 2” PLZ-24-8012, AN AMENDED
              CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND SITE PLAN FOR A COMMERCIAL
              STORAGE UNIT DEVELOPMENT LOCATED AT 13487 SOUTH 5600
              WEST. APPLICANT – JEFFREY BERNSON.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the Site Plan was
brought before the Commission three times previously. There were issues with the
Conditional Use Permit that took time to get through. For business reasons, the applicant
decided to decrease the size of one building from two stories to one story. Much of the
original discussion was around how the two-story building would impact the park and houses
to the south, which this amendment would resolve.

The subject property is on the far west side of the City. It adjoins Rosewater Drive but there
is an eight-foot masonry wall separating the property. There is also a six-foot masonry wall
on the park frontage. The storage units will be accessed by 5600 West. The previously
approved Site Plan and elevations were reviewed. The application changes Building 300,
but all other buildings will remain the same. There will also be slight changes to the
landscaping, including the removal of trees that were required by the Planning Commission
to shield the second-story and rooftop mechanical equipment. With the amendment to
remove the second story, the applicant requested the removal of the trees so they could
widen the asphalt driveway.

Mr. Prestwich reviewed the new elevations, which include some banding on the larger wall
expanses, lowering of the second story, and the addition of a parapet wall and screening to
