                                     FRANCHISE AGREEMENT

        THIS FRANCHISE AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into by and between the
Riverton City, Utah, a municipal corporation and political subdivision of the State of Utah
("City"), with principal offices at 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton, Utah, and Qwest
Corporation d/b CenturyLink QC, a Colorado corporation, its successors, assigns, lessees,
licensees, agents and affiliates ("Provider"), with its principal offices at 931 14th St., Denver, CO
80202.
                                             WITNESSETH:

       WHEREAS, the Provider desires to provide telecommunication services within the City
and in connection therewith to establish a telecommunications network in, under, and along
present and future City Rights-of-Way; and

       WHEREAS, the City has enacted Title 12, Chapter 25 of the Riverton City Code
(hereinafter the "Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance") which governs
the application and review process and use of the City Rights-of-Way for telecommunication
franchises in the City; and

        WHEREAS, the City, in exercise of its management of public Rights-of-Way, believes
that it is in the best interest of the public to provide the Provider a franchise to operate a
telecommunications network in the City; and

       WHEREAS, the Provider is engaged in the business of providing incumbent
telecommunications services in the State of Utah pursuant to a Certificate of Public Convenience
and Necessity issued by the Utah Public Service Commission ("Commission").

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements of the
parties contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the City and the Provider
agree as follows:

             ARTICLE 1. FRANCHISE AGREEMENT AND ORDINANCE.

        1.1 Agreement. Upon the execution by the parties, this Agreement shall be deemed to
constitute a contract by and between the City and the Provider.

        1.2 Ordinance. The City has adopted the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-
of-Way Ordinance which is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit ''A" and incorporated herein
by reference. The Provider acknowledges that it has had an opportunity to read and become
familiar with the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance. The parties agree
that the provisions and requirements of the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of- Way
Ordinance are material terms of this Agreement, and each party hereby agrees to be contractually
bound to comply with the terms of the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights- of-Way
Ordinance. The definitions in the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance
shall apply herein unless a different meaning is indicated. Nothing in this section shall be deemed
to require the Provider to comply with any provision of the Telecommunications Use

                                                 1
of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance which is determined to be unlawful or beyond the City's
authority. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement or Telecommunications Use of Public
Rights-of-Way Ordinance, including its definitions, to the contrary, this Franchise does not grant
the right, power, or authority to Provider to maintain, construct, lease, or attach any Small
Wireless Facility, as defined under Utah Code Annotated 54-21-101(25), as amended, in, under,
above, over, and across the present and future public Rights-of-Way in the City. If applicable to
the Franchisee, this Franchise also does not grant the right, power, or authority to Provider to
maintain, construct, or lease any substation within the City rights-of-way.

         1.3 Reservation of Police Powers. The City expressly reserves, and the Provider
 expressly recognizes, the City's right and duty to adopt, from time to time, in addition to
 provisions contained herein and in the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way
 Ordinance, such ordinances and rules and regulations as the City may deem necessary in the
 exercise of its police power for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and
 their properties. This Agreement is subordinate to City’s exercise of its police power.

         1.4 Ordinance Amendments. The City reserves the right to amend the
 Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance at any time in accordance with
 its policing power and power to control its rights-of-way, including under 47 U.S.C. 253(c).;
 provided, however, that the City shall not enact any amendments to the Telecommunications
 Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance or Telecommunications Tax Ordinance, except as set
 forth in Section 1.3 above, that will adversely impact Provider’s rights under this Agreement
 without allowing Provider thirty (30) days (or such longer time as Provider reasonably requests
 in writing if thirty (30) days is insufficient) in which to comply with the amendment. The City
 shall give Provider notice by posting any ordinance affecting Provider’s rights under this
 Agreement on the Utah Public Notice Website. Provider will be given an opportunity to be heard
 concerning any proposed amendments at the public meeting identified on the corresponding
 notice. If approved by the City, the Provider shall comply with any such amendments. Unless
 otherwise specifically stated herein, if there is any inconsistency between the Provider's rights
 and obligations under the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of- Way Ordinance or any
 other ordinance, as it exists now or as amended, and this Agreement, the provisions of the
 Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance or other applicable ordinance
 shall govern.

         1.5 Franchise Description. The Telecommunications Franchise provided hereby shall
 confer upon the Provider the nonexclusive right, privilege, and franchise (the “Franchise”), to
 construct, maintain, lease and operate a Telecommunications System in, and along the present
 and future public Rights-of-Way in the City for the purpose of providing Telecommunications
 Services. The Franchise does not grant to the Provider the right, privilege or authority to engage
 in community antenna (or cable) television business (as such term is defined in 47 USC § 522);
 although, nothing contained herein shall preclude the Provider from (1) permitting those with a
 cable franchise who are lawfully engaged in such business to utilize the Provider's
 Telecommunications System within the City for such purposes, or (2) from providing such
 service in the future if an appropriate franchise is obtained and all other legal requirements have
 been satisfied. This Franchise shall not be construed, in any manner, as relieving lessees of their
 obligation to obtain an appropriate franchise if required under applicable law.

                                                 2
        The Franchise does not grant the Provider the right, privilege or authority to engage in
 Wireless Services or to construct or maintain facilities, antennas or other radio transmission
 equipment for Wireless Services in the public Rights-of-Way.

        1.6 Licenses. The Provider acknowledges that it has obtained (or will obtain prior to
 occupying the Rights-of-Way) the necessary approvals, licenses or permits required by federal
 and state law to provide Telecommunication Services consistent with the provisions of this
 Agreement and with the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance.

         1.7 Relationship. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a joint venture or principal
 agent relationship between the parties, and neither party is authorized to, nor shall either party
 act toward third persons or the public in a manner that would indicate any such relationship with
 each other.

                             ARTICLE 2.       FRANCHISE FEE.

         2.1 Franchise Fee.

           (a)     Provider shall pay the municipal telecommunications license tax (the
"Municipal Telecommunications Tax") pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Utah Municipal
Telecommunications License Tax Act, Title 10, Chapter 1, Part 4, Utah Code Annotated 1953,
as amended (the "Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act").

            (b)       In the event all or any portion of the Telecommunications System ceases to
be used by the Provider to provide services subject to the Municipal Telecommunications Tax,
the Provider shall pay, consistent with applicable law, a charge with respect to such portion of
the Telecommunications System, payable from and after: (i) the date Provider ceases to provide
such services, or (ii) the date the Municipal Telecommunications Tax ceases to apply to the
services provided by the Provider, which shall be calculated in the same manner as the charge
then imposed by the City on other Providers occupying the Rights-of-Way with similar facilities,
and which do not provide Telecommunication Services subject to the Municipal
Telecommunications Act, subject to applicable laws and any necessary amendment to this
Agreement. The City and the Provider agree to negotiate in good faith any amendments to this
Agreement as shall be necessary to accommodate the change, including payment provisions. This
provision shall not apply if Provider removes its facilities from the Rights-of-Way.

             (c)     The Provider represents to the City that one of the purposes for entering into
this Agreement is to obtain authority to build and/or operate a Telecommunications System
within the City to provide Telecommunications Services to customers within the City. Upon
completion of the Telecommunications System, the Provider will actively market customer
services and intends to generate local gross receipts within the meaning of the Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act. The provider represents that it expects to generate more than
nominal gross receipts from local customers, and that the use of the Telecommunications System
for other purposes, or to otherwise provide services to customers located outside of the City, is
not the sole or preeminent objective of Provider.

                                                3
            (d)      Upon written request by the City, the Provider shall submit to the Public
Works Director, no more than once per year, a certificate signed by an authorized signatory of the
Provider certifying whether or not all elements of the Telecommunications System have been used
to provide services which generate gross receipts attributed to the City (within the meaning of the
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act) during the preceding calendar year. Any elements of
the Telecommunications System not so used shall be identified and depicted on PDF maps
provided by the Provider and submitted with its annual certificate.


        2.3 Record Inspection. Accurate electronic copies of Provider’s records pertaining to
the reports and payment required in this Agreement, including but not limited to any records
deemed necessary or useful by the City to calculate or confirm gross receipts, and all other non-
confidential and non-privileged records of the Provider reasonably required by the City to assure
compliance by the Provider with the terms of this Agreement, shall be open to inspection by the
City and its duly authorized representatives upon at least thirty (30) days’ prior written notice to
Provider at all reasonable business hours of the Provider. The Provider may require such
inspection to be performed at the Provider's place of business where such records may be located,
provided that in the event such records are not located within the City, the parties will mutually
agree upon a reasonable alternative location or means of viewing such records.

       2.4    [RESERVED]

       2.5 Administrative Fee. In addition to the annual Franchise Fee described above, the
Provider has paid to the City, a one-time application fee of $500.00, which shall compensate the
City for (but which does not exceed), the direct costs and expenses incurred by the City in
preparing, considering, approving, and executing this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE 3. TERM AND RENEWAL.

         3.1 Term and Renewal. The Franchise provided herein is granted to Provider for an
initial term of five (5) years ("Initial Term") commencing with the date this Agreement is last
executed by the parties, unless this Franchise is sooner terminated or expires as herein provided
(“Effective Date”). At the end of the initial five (5) year term of this Agreement, the Franchise
will automatically renew for additional one (1) year term, unless either Party notifies the other
not less than ninety (90) calendar days before the expiration of the then current term that it does
not wish for the Franchise to auto-renew. In such event, the Parties will promptly begin
discussions regarding a replacement franchise agreement.


                   ARTICLE 4. PROVIDER USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY

       4.1    Franchise Rights to Use Rights-of-Way.

           (a)      The Provider shall have the right to occupy and use any present and future
public Rights-of-Way within the City, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and

                                                4
 the obtaining of appropriate permits to a degree that is practicable and does not limit the City's
 use or future use, or excessively limit the use by others.

               (b)      The rights granted to the Provider herein do not include the right to (i)
 excavate in, occupy or use any City park, recreational areas or other property owned by the City,
 or (ii) attach or locate any of the Telecommunications System to or on, or otherwise utilize any
 of, any City-owned property or facilities or structures, including without limitation light poles,
 towers, buildings and trees. The use of such City-owned property or facilities by the Provider
 shall be considered by the City on a case-by-case basis, and shall be subject to payment of
 additional compensation to and Agreements with the City. Similarly, the rights granted herein by
 the City to the Provider do not include the right to situate the Telecommunications System or any
 portion thereof on poles or other property owned by entities other than the City and situated in
 the Rights-of-Way.

         4.2 Compliance with Laws. The Telecommunications System and portions thereof
installed or used under authority of this Franchise shall be constructed, installed, maintained,
relocated and replaced in accordance with applicable federal, state and city laws, codes,
regulations, rules, permits, standards and applicable safety standards (collectively, the
"Regulations"). The Provider shall acquire, and comply with the fees of, such permits as may be
required by such Regulations. The City may inspect the manner of such work and require remedies
as may be necessary to assure compliance.


         4.3 Excavation. Provider shall have the right to excavate the Rights-of-Way subject to
 and in accordance with applicable ordinances, standards, permits, conditions and requirements of
 the City. Provider may not install vertical pedestal boxes in portions of City ROW located in
 residential neighborhoods without the City’s written permission.

         4.4 City Permits Required. Except in the case of an emergency, Provider shall, prior
 to commencing work in the Rights-of-Way, obtain any necessary permits and pay all applicable
 fees and charges the City lawfully prescribes with respect to the construction, maintenance,
 operation, removal or relocation of the Telecommunications System, or other activity that may
 disrupt traffic flow. Provider shall abide by all reasonable permit requirements. Required permits
 and fees may include, not by way of limitation, an encroachment permit and associated fee per
 Title 12 Chapter 15 of Riverton City Code and related and successor provisions. Notwithstanding
 any provision to the contrary, and in addition to any other remedy herein or by law, the City may
 withhold, condition, or delay the issuance of any permits if Provider has not met any of its
 obligations hereunder, whether such breach is material or not, as determined in the sole discretion
 of the Public Works Director.

         4.5 Emergency Repairs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Provider shall not be
 obligated to obtain a permit prior to performing emergency repairs. Prior to, or as soon as
 practicable after commencement of emergency repairs, Provider shall notify the City of any
 emergency repairs and the location of work to be, or being, performed. The City may determine
 to issue a permit and collect all applicable fees and charges the City lawfully prescribes within a
 reasonable time after commencement or completion of emergency repairs.

                                                 5
         4.6   Location of Telecommunications System.

              (a)       The Telecommunications System and all portions thereof shall be
 constructed and laid in locations so as to cause minimum interference with the Rights-of-Way
 and as reasonably approved by the City. Provider shall install the Telecommunications System
 and all portions thereof in the public utility easement where available and compatible. During
 construction, maintenance and repair activities, Provider shall not unreasonably interfere with the
 use of the Rights-of-Way or access to adjacent private property. The Telecommunications System
 and all portions thereof shall be constructed in accordance with established, applicable utility
 construction practices and City construction standards and in a manner which protects the System
 from all traffic loads and public uses. Prior to installation of the Telecommunications System or
 portions thereof that are either new or relocated, Provider and the City shall engage in good faith
 negotiations regarding siting and preservation of existing improvements. When requested by the
 City, Provider shall participate in discussions and meetings with residents concerning installation
 or relocation of Telecommunications Systems or portions thereof.

             (b)        Provider shall prepare and submit as-built drawings for all future
Telecommunications Systems, or portions thereof, not more than thirty (30) calendar days after
completion of installation of the Telecommunications System or permitted portions thereof. The
drawings shall be given to the City in a GIS Shapefile Format or Autocad file with the GPS location
identified for all facilities. If Provider fails to submit drawings to the City within thirty (30)
calendar days, Provider shall be considered in violation of a material duty under this Agreement.

         4.7   Repair of Damage.

               (a)     If, during the course of work on its Telecommunications System, Provider
 causes damage to or alters the Rights-of-Way or public property, Provider shall (at its own cost
 and expense and in a manner reasonably approved by the City) replace and restore it in as good
 a condition as existed immediately before the work commenced and in accordance with City
 ordinances, standards, requirements, permits and conditions. This shall include, construction,
 installation, maintenance, relocation and removal of the Telecommunications System. If Provider
 does not perform such repair or replacement, the City shall so notify Provider and give a
 reasonable time, not more than sixty (60) calendar days, to remedy the situation. If Provider fails
 to perform, then the City shall have the option to perform or cause to be performed such
 reasonable and necessary work on behalf of Provider and to charge Provider for the reasonable
 costs incurred. Upon receipt of demand for payment by the City, Provider shall promptly
 reimburse the City for such costs. Provider shall reimburse City for such reasonable, actual and
 documented costs, within ninety (90) days of receipt of demand for payment. If Provider fails to
 reimburse City, Provider shall be considered in violation of a material duty under this Agreement.

               (b)       For a period of one year, or such longer period as required by any City
 permit, following the completion of any work in the Rights-of-Way or any repair work, Provider
 shall maintain, repair, and keep in good condition those portions of the Rights-of-Way or property
 or facilities installed, constructed, restored, repaired or replaced, to the reasonable satisfaction of
 the Public Works Director; provided, however, that Provider shall not be responsible for

                                                   6
maintenance or repair definitively caused by the City or any third party.

        4.8 Progress Reports. During the period of construction of the Telecommunications
System or any portions thereof, the Provider shall furnish the City with written progress reports
indicating in detail the area of construction upon request by the City. Such periodic reports may
be requested no more frequently than once per month, the first report may be requested one (1)
month after the construction commencement date.

        4.9 City Inspection. The City shall have the right to inspect the construction, operation
and maintenance activities to ensure proper compliance with applicable City ordinances,
standards, permits, conditions and requirements (collectively, the "City Regulations"), and the
terms of this Agreement. In the event Provider should fail to comply with the terms of any such
City Regulations or the terms of this Agreement, the City shall give Provider written notice of
such non-compliance and the time for correction provided by ordinance or a reasonable time for
correction if there is no applicable ordinance, not to exceed sixty (60) days. This time period may
be extended as reasonably necessary to accommodate delays beyond Provider's reasonable
control. If Provider fails to remedy the non-compliance within the required time frame, the City
shall have the option to perform or cause to be performed the work on behalf of Provider and to
charge Provider for the actual, reasonable and documented labor and costs incurred. Provider
shall reimburse the City within thirty (30) calendar days after Provider’s receipt of City’s demand
for payment for such labor and costs. The City shall inspect the Telecommunications System at
reasonable times and upon reasonable notice to the Provider. However, the inspection shall not
interrupt or interfere with any ongoing construction or services provided by the Provider.

         4.10 City Facilities. It is expressly understood and agreed by the City and Provider and
as part of the consideration for this Franchise that the City shall have the right to cross the
Telecommunications System at any point necessary for the use, maintenance, operation,
construction, repair, relocation and/or expansion of the Rights-of-Way, utilities and other City
facilities and improvements. If at any time the Provider’s facilities interfere with, obstruct, or
block City owned facilities’ use of the Rights-of-Way for a legitimate public purpose (for reasons
of public health, safety and welfare) as determined by City in its sole discretion, the Provider
shall relocate such interfering facilities upon the City’s request and do so at its own expense. The
City shall use due care and diligence in the protection of the Telecommunications System in
making any such crossings and shall comply with all applicable local, state and federal laws, rules
and regulations.

       4.11 Provider Duty to Relocate.

            (a)      Whenever the City, for any lawful purpose, but not solely for beautification
purposes, requires the relocation or reinstallation of the Telecommunications System or portions
thereof situated within the Rights-of-Way, including the relocation of the Telecommunications
System from above ground to below ground, the Provider shall, within thirty (30) days’ prior
written notice, commence such work to remove and relocate or reinstall such
Telecommunications Systems as may be necessary to meet the requirements of the City.
Relocation shall be completed within ninety (90) days from the date of notice or such other time
as may be mutually agreed upon by the parties. If Provider does not satisfactorily relocate within

                                                7
 such time, the City may perform or cause to be performed such work and to charge Provider for
 the reasonable, actual costs incurred. Provider shall reimburse the City within ninety (90) days
 of receipt of the City’s written demand for payment.

             (b)      Such relocation, removal or reinstallation by the Provider shall be at no cost
 to the City (except when requested solely for beautification purposes).

             (c)      The Provider may ask for a meeting with the City to discuss the relocation
 and alignment for the relocated Telecommunications Systems. The City shall not be obligated to
 provide alternate space within the Rights-of-Way, however, the City shall make good faith
 efforts to provide Provider with alternate space within the Rights-of-Way.

   (d)                 If a City project is funded by federal or State monies that specifically
 includes an amount allocated to defray the expenses of relocation of Telecommunications
 Systems, the City shall reimburse the Provider up to the extent of such specified and
 demonstrated amount for any actual relocation costs mandated by the project to the extent that
 the City actually receives such federal or State funds expressly earmarked for that purpose. The
 requirements of this Section shall not be construed to be in derogation of any right or cause of
 action for reimbursement the Provider may have against a developer or other private interest
 which causes the need to move its lines or Telecommunications Systems; under such
 circumstances, the City will require as a permit condition that the developer or other private
 interest pay for Provider’s reasonable relocation costs.

   (e)                  If a request for relocation is made for the benefit of a commercial third
party, such that the third party is funding a project resulting in such a request for relocation, the
Provider may require advance payment for costs and expenses by the third party prior to
relocation. Advance payment shall not be required if an elected or appointed official acting on
behalf of the City certifies in writing that the request for relocation is associated with; (1) an
adopted City master plan, (2) City-approved formal redevelopment project, (3) City-approved
tax increment financing project, or (4) other City-approved contractual public-
private partnership.


         4.12 Common Use of Facilities.

               (a)      In order to minimize the adverse impact to City Rights-of-Way, City owned
 facilities, and inconvenience to the public, it is the policy of the City to encourage and require the
 shared use of telecommunication facilities by City franchisees and permittees whenever
 practicable.

              (b)      Except when necessary to service a subscriber, and subject to the written
 approval and conditions of the City, the Provider shall, prior to constructing the
 Telecommunications System or portions thereof, fully utilize any excess capacity reasonably and
 cost-effectively available within any existing conduit, under such terms and agreements as the
 Provider negotiates with the owners of such conduits. The City may contact other franchisees to

                                                   8
determine whether Provider has fulfilled the obligation under 4.12.

         4.13 Duty to Underground. Unless excepted by the City Public Works Director in
writing, the Provider must place all new lines, cables, and equipment underground where required
of all other new lines, cables, and equipment in the same location, but may place other equipment
in vaults or on pedestals above ground where permitted. “New lines” shall mean any
telecommunication wires, cables, and facilities (excluding vaults and pedestals) not already
attached to any existing poles or other structures as of the Effective Date of this Agreement. As
such, the practice of overlashing of New Lines shall only be conducted upon approval from the
City. In furtherance of this requirement, the Provider acknowledges and agrees that if the City
Public Works Director makes an exception to the requirements in this Section, at the time of
initial installation, the City may, as a valid exercise of its police power for the public health,
safety, or general welfare, require the relocation of the Provider's above-ground and/or aerial
facilities to underground installation in accordance with Section 4.11(a) and (b).

       4.14 Provider's Duty to Remove the System from the Rights-of-Way.

            (a)      Subject to subsection (c) below, the Provider shall promptly remove from
the Rights-of-Way all or any part of the Telecommunications System, when one or more of the
following conditions occur:

            (i)     The Provider ceases to operate such Telecommunications System or portions
                    thereof for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, except when the
                    cessation of service is a direct result of a natural or man-made disaster,
                    including the acts or omissions of the City or a third party;

            (ii)    The construction or installation of such Telecommunications System or
                    portions thereof do not meet the requirements of this Agreement; or

            (iii)   The Franchise is terminated or revoked pursuant to notice as provided herein.

            (b)       Upon receipt by the Provider of written notice from the City setting forth
one or more of the occurrences specified in subsection (a) above, the Provider shall have ninety
(90) calendar days from the date upon which said notice is received to remove such
Telecommunications System or portions thereof, or, in the case of subsection (a), to begin
operating the Telecommunications System.

            (c)        The Provider may abandon any underground lines and appurtenances in
place, subject to the reasonable requirements of the City, including but not limited to transfer of
ownership to the City through written document, and only after the prior written consent of the
City, which may be granted or withheld in the City's sole and absolute discretion. In such an
event, the abandoned facilities shall become the property of the City and the Provider shall have
no further responsibilities or obligations concerning those facilities. The City shall not use the
possibility of obtaining ownership of the abandoned system as a rationale for terminating or
revoking the Franchise.


                                                9
       4.15 Removal of Facilities Upon Request. Upon termination of service to any
subscriber, the Provider shall promptly remove Telecommunications System lines, equipment
and appurtenances from the premises of such subscriber at the written request of such subscriber,
and at no cost to the subscriber, unless the Provider's agreement with such subscriber provides
otherwise.

        4.16 Continuation of Service. In the event the Provider is or becomes the exclusive
local exchange carrier providing basic telephone exchange services within the City, the removal
of the System, and the discontinuation of telecommunication services by the Provider within the
City, shall be subject to applicable regulations and procedures of the Public Service Commission,
or any successor regulatory body and, in the event the Utah Public Service Commission or such
successor regulatory body no longer regulates local exchange carriers providing basic telephone
exchange services within the City, such removal of facilities and discontinuation of services shall
be subject to the applicable regulations and procedures of any public body (including the City)
then regulating such carriers.

                            ARTICLE 5. PUBLIC USE RIGHTS.

        5.1 City Use of Trenches. Whenever the Provider proposes to install new underground
conduits or replace existing underground conduits within or under the Rights-of-Way, it shall
notify the City Engineer as soon as practical and shall allow the City, after notice to Provider, at
City’s own expense, and without charge to the Provider, to utilize any such approved trench
opened by the Provider to lay the City's facilities therein; provided, that such action will not
unreasonably interfere with the Telecommunications System or delay the accomplishment of the
Provider's project; and pursuant to the terms and conditions of a conduit license or similar
agreement entered into by the parties.

        5.2 City Use of Poles and Overhead Structures. Subject to the restrictions in Article
5.3 below, when Provider has space available, the City shall have the right to use approved poles
owned by the Provider within the City pursuant to the terms of a separate pole attachment
agreement or similar agreement entered into by the parties.

        5.3 Limitations on Use Rights. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to
require the Provider to increase pole capacity or do any make-ready work, alter the manner in
which the Provider attaches equipment to the poles, or alter the manner in which the Provider
operates and maintains its equipment.

        5.4 Use of Provider Corridors. The City may identify corridors which the Provider
now or in the future owns in fee within the City and which are similar in nature to transmission
corridors of electric utility providers. The City may identify portions of such corridors, if any, as
being desirable locations for public parks, playgrounds or recreation areas. In such event, the
parties will in good faith negotiate an agreement providing for such uses by the City. No such use
shall not be allowed where the Provider in good faith believes such use would interfere with the
Provider’s use of the corridor or materially prejudice its interests in safety. The Provider shall
assume no liability, nor shall it incur, directly or indirectly any additional expense in connection
with public use of any such corridors.

                                                10
                               ARTICLE 6. COORDINATION.

        6.1 Annual Information Coordination. On or before February 28 of each calendar
year, or such other date as the Provider and City may agree upon from year to year, the Provider
and the City shall meet for the purpose of exchanging information and documents regarding
construction and other similar work within the City, with a view toward coordinating their
respective activities in those areas where such coordination may prove mutually beneficial. Such
information exchange shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any coordination required by the
City Regulations.

       6.2 Meet to Confer. The Provider and the City each agree, upon request of the other
during the term of this Agreement, to meet with the other and discuss in good faith whether it
would be appropriate, to amend this Agreement or enter into separate, mutually satisfactory
arrangements to effect a proper accommodation of any changes in the law affecting Provider's
conduct of its business or City's regulation thereof.


        ARTICLE 7. EARLY TERMINATION, REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE,
                          AND OTHER REMEDIES.

        7.1 Grounds for Termination. The City may terminate or revoke this Agreement and
all rights and privileges herein provided for any of the following reasons, subject to applicable
state and federal law:

            (a)       The Provider fails to timely pay or provide the consideration as required
under Article 2 of this Agreement and does not correct such failure within thirty (30) business
days after written notice by the City of such failure;

            (b)       The Provider, by act or omission, violates a material duty herein; or

            (c)      The Provider becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts; is
adjudged bankrupt; or all or part of its facilities should be sold under an instrument to secure a
debt and is not redeemed by the Provider within sixty (60) days; or

            (d)      In furtherance of the Provider's policy or through acts or omissions done
within the scope and course of employment, a member of the Board of Directors or an officer of
the Provider knowingly engages in conduct or makes a material misrepresentation with or to the
City, that is fraudulent or in violation of a felony criminal statute of the State of Utah.

        7.2 Dispute Resolution. Before terminating or revoking the Franchise as set forth in
this section, the City’s Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) shall hold a hearing to determine if
termination is justified pursuant to this section. Provider shall be given at least ten (10) business
days' written notice of the hearing and an opportunity to be heard at the hearing. If the CAO
determines that termination is justified, the City shall give Provider written notice of the
determination and of its intent to terminate the Franchise if Provider does not cure the terminable

                                                11
event within sixty (60) business days of receipt of the notice from the City. If the violation is of
such nature that it cannot be reasonably corrected within the sixty (60) day period, the City shall,
upon receipt of supporting evidence from Provider, provide additional time as reasonably
necessary to correct the violation. If Provider does not correct the violation within such sixty (60)
days or longer period of receipt of the notice, the City may declare the Franchise forfeited, and
thereupon neither Provider nor the City shall have any further obligations, duties, rights or
authority pursuant to this agreement and Franchise other than those that expressly survive
termination. Nothing herein shall limit any party’s ability to pursue any other remedy against the
other as provided by applicable law.

       7.3 Third Party Beneficiaries. The benefits and protection provided by this
Agreement shall inure solely to the benefit of the City and the Provider. This Agreement shall
not be deemed to create any right in any person who is not a party and shall not be construed in
any respect to be a contract in whole or in part for the benefit of any third party (other than the
permitted successors and assigns of a party hereto).

                            ARTICLE 8. PARTIES DESIGNEES.

        8.1 City Designee and Address. The City Mayor or his/her designee(s) shall serve as
the City's representative regarding administration of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified
herein or in the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance, all notices from
the Provider to the City pursuant to or concerning this Agreement, shall be delivered to the City
Recorder, with a copy to the City Public Works Director and City Attorney, at 12830 South
Redwood Road, Riverton, Utah 84065, or such other officer and address as the City may
designate by written notice to the Provider.

        8.2 Provider Designee and Address. NIS ROW or his/her designee(s) shall serve as
the Provider's representative regarding administration of this Agreement. Unless otherwise
specified herein or in the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance, all
notices from the City to the Provider pursuant to or concerning this Agreement, shall be delivered
to:

       Qwest Corporation d/b/a CenturyLink QC
       Attn: NIS ROW
       931 14th St.,
       Denver, CO 80202

       With copy (except for invoices) to:
       Qwest Corporation d/b/a CenturyLink QC
       ATTN: Network Legal Counsel
       931 14th St.
       Denver, CO 80202 or such other office as the Provider may designate by written notice
       to the City.


                  ARTICLE 9. INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.

                                                12
        9.1 No City Liability. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, the City shall
in no way be liable or responsible for any loss or damage to property or any injury to, or death,
of any person that may occur in the construction, operation or maintenance by the Provider of the
Telecommunication System, unless and to the extent that such loss or damage is caused by the
City's negligent acts or omissions or willful misconduct. Provider agrees that the Rights-of-Way
are delivered in an “AS IS, WHERE IS” condition and City makes no representation or warranty
regarding their condition, and disclaims all express and implied warranties, including all
employees verbal or written representations now and in the future.

       9.2    Insurance.

            (a)       The Provider, at its own cost and expense, shall secure and maintain, and
shall ensure that any subcontractor to the Provider shall secure and maintain, during the term of
this Agreement the following policies of insurance:

            (i)        General Liability Insurance. Commercial general liability insurance on an
occurrence basis arising out of claims for bodily injury (including death) and property damage.
Such insurance shall provide coverage for ongoing operations and products-completed
operations, blanket contractual, broad form property damage, personal and advertising injury,
independent contractors and sudden and accidental pollution liability [pollution liability arising
out of a hostile fire] with a $10,000,000 minimum per occurrence limit combined bodily injury
and property damage, with a $10,000,000 minimum aggregate limit, provided the general policy
aggregate shall apply separately to the Provider on a per project basis. Any aggregate limit that
does not apply separately to the premises shall be at least double the required per occurrence
limit.

             (ii)     Business Automobile Liability Insurance. Commercial automobile liability
insurance that provides coverage for owned, hired, and non-owned automobiles, with a combined
single limit of $10,000,000 per occurrence.

            (iii)     Workers' Compensation and Employer's Liability. Worker's
compensation and employer's liability insurance sufficient to cover all of the Provider's
employees pursuant to Utah law. This requirement includes those who are doing business as an
individual and/or as a sole proprietor as well as corporations and partnerships. In the event any
work is subcontracted, the Provider shall require its subcontractor(s) similarly to provide worker's
compensation insurance for all of the latter's employees, unless a waiver of coverage is allowed
and acquired pursuant to Utah law.

             (b)      General Insurance Requirements.

              (i)      Any insurance coverage required herein that is written on a "claims made"
form rather than on an "occurrence" form shall (A) provide full prior acts coverage or have a
retroactive date effective before the date of this Agreement, and (B) be maintained for a period
of at least two (2) years following the end of the term of this Agreement or contain a comparable
"extended discovery" clause. Evidence of current extended discovery coverage and the purchase

                                                13
options available upon policy termination shall be provided to the City.

            (ii)      All policies of insurance shall be issued by insurance companies authorized
to do business in the state of Utah and either:
       (A) Currently rated A- or better by A.M. Best Company; and (A(l)) for construction
            contracts only, the insurer must also have an A.M. Best Company financial size
            category rating of not less than VII.
                                                -OR-
       (B) Listed in the United States Treasury Department's current Listing of Approved
            Sureties (Department Circular 570), as amended.

            (iii)    The Provider shall furnish certificates of insurance, acceptable to the City,
verifying the foregoing matters concurrent with the execution hereof and thereafter as required.

            (iv)      In the event any work is subcontracted, the Provider shall require its
subcontractor, at no cost to the City, to secure and maintain the same insurance coverages with
the same limits required of the Provider hereunder.

             (v)       In the event that governmental immunity limits are subsequently altered by
legislation or judicial opinion, Provider shall provide a new certificate of insurance within thirty
(30) days after being notified thereof in writing by the City, certifying coverage in compliance
with the modified limits or, if no new limits are specified, in an amount acceptable to the City.

             (vi)    All required certificates and policies shall provide that insurers of coverage
thereunder shall provide 30 days prior written notice of cancellation or modification to the City
in a manner approved by the City Attorney. Alternatively, Provider may, at its option and in its
discretion, assume responsibility for providing such notice, and in such event, the certificates and
policies referenced herein shall not indicate the insurance carrier will provide such notice.

            (vii)     In the event that City's tender of defense based on Provider's alleged
negligence is rejected by Provider or Provider's insurer, and Provider is later found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to have been negligent as aforesaid, then in addition to any other remedies
City may have, Provider agrees to pay the City's reasonable costs, expenses and attorney's fees in
proving such negligence, defending itself and enforcing this indemnity provision.

             (viii)    In the event that the limits of damage exposure to which the City is at risk
are modified by either statute or judicial decision, Provider shall cause the commercial general
liability and business automobile liability insurance coverages specified in paragraphs (a)(i) and
(a)(ii) above to be increased to any new limit or, if no limit is established, in an amount reasonably
acceptable to the City.

       9.3 Indemnification. The Provider shall indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless
from and against any and all claims, counterclaims, cross claims, demands, liens, attorneys fees
and costs, and all loss, liability, damages, or damage of whatsoever kind to the extent arising from
the Provider's exercise of its rights hereunder and under the Telecommunications Use of Public
Rights-of-Way Ordinance, and shall pay any and all costs,

                                                 14
including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the City in defense of such claims. Said
indemnification shall include but not be limited to Provider's negligent acts or omissions pursuant
to its use of the rights and privileges of this Agreement, including construction, operation, lease,
and maintenance of the System whether or not any such use, act or omission complained of is
authorized allowed or prohibited by this Agreement. If City’s tender of defense, based upon this
indemnity provision, is rejected by Provider, and Provider is later found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to have been required to indemnify City, then in addition to any other remedies City
may have, Provider shall pay City’s actual, reasonable and documented costs, expenses, and
attorneys’ fees incurred in providing such indemnification, defending itself, or enforcing this
provision. The City shall promptly give written notice to the Provider of any claim, demand, lien,
liability, or damage with respect to which the City seeks indemnification and the City may permit
the Provider to assume the defense of such with counsel of the Provider's choosing but only upon
written approval by City. Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, the
Provider shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold the City harmless to the extent any
claim, demand, lien, damage, or liability is caused by the negligent acts or omissions of the City,
its officers, agents, and employees, or a third party who is not Provider’s employee, agent, or
contractor. The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Agreement until
all such applicable statute of limitations have expired.

                          ARTICLE 10. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

        10.1 Binding Agreement. The parties represent that (a) when executed by their
respective parties, this Agreement shall constitute legal and binding obligations of the parties; (b)
the person signing on each party’s behalf has the legal right and authority to execute, enter into
and bind such party to the commitments and obligations set forth herein. and (c) that each party
has complied with all relevant statutes, ordinances, resolutions, by-laws and other legal
requirements applicable to their operation in entering into this Agreement.

        10.2 Utah Choice of Law, Jurisdiction, and Venue. The laws of the State of Utah,
without giving effect to its principles of conflicts of law, govern all adversarial proceedings
arising out of or related to this Agreement. Jurisdiction and venue shall be in the Utah Third
District Court located in West Jordan, Utah.

       10.3 Time of Essence. Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement.

        10.4 Interpretation of Agreement. The invalidity of any portion of this Agreement
shall not prevent the remainder from being carried into effect. Whenever the context of any
provision shall require it, the singular number shall be held to include the plural number, and vice
versa, and the use of any gender shall include any other and all genders. The paragraphs and
section headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not constitute a part of the
provisions hereof.

        10.5 No Presumption. All parties have participated in preparing this Agreement.
Therefore, the parties stipulate that any court interpreting or construing the Agreement shall not
apply the rule of construction that the Agreement should be more strictly construed against the
drafting party.

                                                15
       10.6 Amendments. This Agreement may be modified or amended by written agreement
only. No oral modifications or amendments shall be effective.

       10.7 Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, successors,
administrators and assigns of each of the parties.

        10.8 Fee Article Essential. Article 2.1 hereof is essential to the adoption of this
Agreement. In the event the Franchise Fee provisions hereof are determined to be illegal, invalid,
unconstitutional, or are superseded by legislation, in whole or in part, this entire Agreement and
the Franchise shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, and subject to the following
provisions of this Article, be terminated. Such termination shall be effective as of the date of a
final appealable order, or the effective date of any such legislation, unless otherwise agreed by
the City and the Provider.

        10.9 Severability. If any section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision of this
Agreement or the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance is for any reason
determined to be or rendered illegal, invalid or superseded by other lawful authority, including
any state or federal, legislative, regulatory or administrative authority having jurisdiction thereof,
or is determined to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such
determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other section, sentence, paragraph, term
or provision, all of which shall remain in full force and effect for the term of this Agreement or
any renewal or renewals thereof. Provided that if the invalidated portion is considered a material
consideration for entering into this Agreement, the parties will negotiate, in good faith, an
amendment to this Agreement. As used herein, "material consideration" for the City is Provider’s
payment under Article 2 during the term of this Agreement and the City’s ability to manage the
Rights-of-Way in a manner similar to that provided in this Agreement, the Telecommunications
Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance, and ordinances and standards related to encroachments
and excavation in the Rights-of-Way. For the Provider, "material consideration" is its ability to
use the Rights-of-Way for telecommunication purposes in a manner similar to that provided in
this Agreement, the Telecommunications Use of Public Rights-of-Way Ordinance, and all
ordinances and standards related to encroachments and excavation in the Rights-of-Way.

       10.10 [RESERVED]

        10.11 Utah Governmental Records Management Act. Whenever the Provider is
required to make available to the City for inspection, any records of the Provider, and such records
are made available to the City with a written claim of confidentiality which meets, in the judgment
of the City Representative, the requirements of the Utah Governmental Records Management Act
("GRAMA"), such records shall be classified by the City as "protected" within the meaning of
GRAMA, and shall not be disclosed by the City except as may otherwise be required by GRAMA,
by court order, or by applicable City ordinance or policy.

      10.13 Representation Regarding Ethical Standards for City Officers and Employees
and Former City Officers and Employees. Provider represents that it has not (1) provided an

                                                 16
illegal gift or payoff to a City officer or employee or former City officer or employee, or his or
her relative or business entity; (2) retained any person to solicit or secure this contract upon an
agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other
than bona fide employees or bona fide commercial selling agencies for the purpose of securing
business; (3) knowingly breached any of the ethical standards set forth in the City's conflict of
interest ordinance; or (4) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it will not knowingly
influence, a City officer or employee or former City officer or employee to breach any of the
ethical standards set forth in the City's conflict of interest ordinance, Title 2 Chapter 120 of the
Riverton City Code.

                  ARTICLE 11. ASSIGNMENT, SALE OR TRANSFER.

        11.1 Assignment. Provider shall not sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet or otherwise
make available to any person or entity other than the Provider, in whole or in part, either by forced
or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, contract, consolidation or otherwise, the Franchise or any
rights or privileges under this Agreement, without prior written consent of the City.

             11.2       Grant or Denial of Consent. The consent required shall be given or denied
by the City not later than one-hundred twenty (120) days following receipt by the City of a written
request for consent and shall not be unreasonably withheld. For the purpose of determining
whether it shall grant its consent, the City may inquire into the qualifications of the proposed
transferee, and the Provider shall assist the City in the inquiry. City may condition or deny its
consent based on any or a combination of the following or similar criteria. The proposed
transferee shall indicate by affidavit whether it:
             (i) has ever been convicted or held liable for acts involving deceit including any
violation of federal, State or local law or regulations, or is currently under an indictment,
investigation or complaint charging such acts;
             (ii) has ever had a judgment in an action for fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation
entered against the proposed transferee by any court of competent jurisdiction;
             (iii)     has pending any material legal claim, lawsuit, or administrative proceeding
arising out of or involving a system similar to the System, except that any such claims, suits or
proceedings relating to insurance claims, theft or service, or employment matters need not be
disclosed;
             (iv)      is financially solvent, by submitting financial data, including financial
statements, that have been audited by a certified public accountant, along with any other data that
the City may reasonably require; and
             (v)       has the financial and technical capability to enable it to maintain and operate
the System for the remaining term of this Agreement.
             (vi)      the use of Telecommunication System and Right of Way by the proposed
transferee are consistent with the uses by the Provider permitted under this Agreement.
        The Provider shall provide to the City information regarding any failure by the Provider
to comply with any provision of this Agreement or of any applicable customer or consumer
service standards promulgated or in effect in the City's jurisdiction at any point during the term
of this Agreement.

       11.3 Exceptions.       Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City's consent shall not be

                                                 17
 required in connection with:
              (i) The intracorporate transfer from one wholly-owned subsidiary to another wholly-
owned subsidiary of a parent corporation;
              (ii) The transfer to any entity having or purchasing fifty percent (50%) or more direct
or indirect common ownership of Provider;
              (ii) Any transfer in trust, a mortgage, or other instrument of hypothecation of the
assets of the Provider, in whole or in part, to secure indebtedness, provided that such pledge of the
assets of the Provider shall not impair or mitigate the Provider's responsibility and capability to
meet all its obligations under the provisions of this Agreement;
              (iii)      Any sale or other transfer by the Provider of worn out, obsolete equipment
 or property no longer required by the Provider in connection with its operations in the normal
 course of business; or
              (iv)       Interconnection or use agreements pursuant to which the System may be
 used by another entity providing telecommunication services within the City, provided that any
 such other entity has obtained a franchise from the City.

         11.4 Retention of City Rights. The consent or approval of the City to any transfer by
 the Provider shall not constitute a waiver or release of any rights of the City in or to its Rights-
 of-Way and any transfer shall by its own terms be expressly subject to the terms and conditions
 of this Agreement.

        11.5 Continuation of Agreement. A sale, transfer or assignment of this Agreement
 may not be valid without the Proposed Transferee becoming a signatory to this Agreement by
 executing an unconditional acceptance of this Agreement.

         11.6 Definitions. For purposes of this Article, the following terms shall have the
 following meanings:
              (i) "Control" or "Controlling Interest" means actual working control in whatever
 manner exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
 management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the System or of the
 Provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of Control or a Controlling Interest shall
 arise from the beneficial ownership, directly, by any person, or group of persons or entities acting
 in concert, of more than fifty percent (50%) of the Provider.        "Control" or "Controlling
 Interest" as used herein may be held simultaneously by more than one Person.
              (ii) "Person" means any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, association or
 corporation, or any other form of organization, and includes any natural I person.
              (iii) "Proposed Transferee" means a proposed purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee
  or person acquiring ownership or control of the Provider.




                              [INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]




                                                 18
                                          ARTICLE 12. EXECUTION

           IN WITNESS HEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement in duplicate, each of
           which shall be deemed an original.


           SIGNED AND ENTERED INTO this                day of                                 , 20    .

    “City”

    Riverton City

    By:
      Mayor


    ATTEST:                                                          Approved as to Legal Form:


    City Recorder                                                    Riverton City Attorney




    “Provider”
    Qwest Corporation d/b/a CenturyLink QC

    By: _________________________________________

    Its:


                                             ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF ____                    )
                                 :ss
COUNTY OF ____                   )

       Before me, _______________________, on this day personally appeared _____________________,
known to me to be the person whose name is subscribed to the foregoing instrument and known to me to be a
____________________ o f__________________________, a Corporation, and acknowledged to me that (s)he
executed the said instrument for the purposes and consideration therein expressed, on behalf of said Corporation.

           Given under my hand and seal of office this ________ day of _______________, 2025.



                                                         NOTARY PUBLIC




                                                        19
EXHIBIT “A” – TELECOMMUNICATIONS USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY ORDINANCE




                                  20
