                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            March 1, 2022
Subject:         Ordinance 22-09, Proposed Amendment to Sections 18.225.040(a) & 18.225.080(8)(a),
                 Addressing Accessory Building Height and Size, Amendments Proposed by Riverton City


On February 10, 2022, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider this text
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are attached below. The Commission voted to
recommend approval of the proposed amendment, with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 22-09 , amending sections 18.225.040(a) & 18.225.080(8)(a),
Accessory Buildings, Addressing Accessory Building Height and Size as shown as shown in Exhibit “A”,
with the following modifications:
    1.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Zoning Text Change proposed by Riverton City. The Zone text change
involves Section 18.225 Accessory Structures. The amendment addresses two issues.

 The first is related to the allowed height of accessory structures of any kind. The current ordinance allows
a maximum height of 20 or 25 feet for accessory structures, depending on property size and distance from
the property line. However, the ordinance includes the limitation that an accessory building “may not exceed
the height of the main dwelling, measured at the highest pitch of the roof”. This has proven to be a difficult
standard to maintain, in part because that measurement is not always intuitive or possible for a homeowner
to make. Even Riverton City staff have difficulties establishing the finished height of a home that has been
in existence long enough that the City no longer has plans on file, which typically are only kept for a few
years. Staff is recommending that the requirement for accessory structures not to exceed the height of the
home be eliminated.

The second is a requirement in the section dealing with accessory dwelling units (ADU). That section
includes a limitation that the accessory building containing an ADU cannot exceed 50% of the footprint of
the main dwelling. This limitation does not apply to accessory buildings in general, only where an ADU is
included. This has made the process of adding an ADU to an existing building difficult for some property
owners, where an accessory building was permitted but exceeded the size requirement. Staff is proposing
this limitation on the size of the accessory structure containing an ADU be removed, allowing ADU’s in any
accessory structure which meets the requirements of the ordinance. Alternatively, the limitation may be
amended to limit the size of the ADU within the building. Should the Council so desire, staff can provide
assistance in crafting that language into the motion.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of the proposed amendment, and staff concurs with that
recommendation.



Report by: TJP
2/24/2022
Attachments
The following items are attached:
   1. Draft text amendment to Section 18.225




Report by: TJP
2/24/2022
Exhibit “A”

18.225.040 Architectural standards.
(1) Maximum Size. The maximum size of any accessory structure is two times the size of the footprint of the
principal structure (house and attached garage), and the maximum total size of all accessory structure(s) on any
parcel shall be limited to 10 percent of the total lot area, with any private lane as approved by Riverton City
excluded from the lot area.

(2) Maximum Height.

     (a) The maximum height of accessory structures shall be 20 feet. On property of at least 10,000 square feet the
     maximum height may be up to 25 feet, but may not exceed the height of the main dwelling, measured at the
     highest pitch of the roof..

18.225.080 Accessory dwelling units.
(8) Additional Requirements for an Accessory Dwelling Unit Located in a Detached Accessory Building. An
accessory dwelling unit located in a detached accessory building or as an addition to an existing accessory building
shall comply with the following standards:

     (a) Bulk Requirements. Accessory structures containing an ADU shall comply with all applicable general yard,
     square footage size and height limitations found in this chapter and any accessory building regulation found in
     the underlying zoning district unless otherwise regulated by this section. An accessory dwelling unit located in
     an accessory building shall count towards the maximum square footage of all accessory buildings as stated in
     this chapter. The accessory building containing an accessory dwelling unit shall not have a footprint that is
     greater than 50 percent of the footprint of the principal dwelling. Any loft within the accessory dwelling unit of
     an accessory building shall not be included in calculating the footprint of the accessory dwelling unit. An
     accessory building that contains an accessory dwelling unit and any other permitted accessory use shall comply
     with all building coverage requirements of this chapter.
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   14
February 10, 2022


Rushton-Nay; Commissioner Gilchrist-Aye; Commissioner Breinholt-Nay.    The
motion passed 4-to-2. Commissioner Cannon was not present for the vote.
**
     C.    ZONE TEXT CHANGE, “ACCESSORY STRUCTURES” PROPOSED
           CHANGES TO RIVERTON CITY CODE 18.225. APPICANT, RIVERTON
           CITY.

Mr. Prestwich reported that “Accessory Structures” refers to all structures on a residential
zone that is not the primary residence. The most common example would be a shed. In
Riverton City where there are larger lots, there are large sheds, barns, and garages. With
the Council’s action to adopt an ADU Standard, people can build a ‘tiny house’ or an
accessory dwelling in the back yard. ‘Accessory Structures’ is probably the most frequently
changed ordinance in the City because of its impact on the neighbors. There are items that
the Council asked to be changed and on a previous ordinance change, there was some
ambiguity created that they would like to clear up.

The maximum height allowed in the Code is 20 feet unless the main dwelling is taller than
that. In such a case, it could be as high as the main house. That Code is proposed to be
changed to be a maximum height of 25 feet. If the height exceeds 20 feet, the setback
increases to 15 feet to protect the neighbors. Many of the one-quarter acre lots would not
be able to build a dwelling unit taller than 20 feet because of the setback requirements.
Mr. Carter added that the existing language will remain unchanged since the proposed
modification is only changing the maximum height to 10,000 square-foot lots. He preferred
something simpler. Twenty-five feet seemed like a reasonable number, but he questioned
why it would need to fluctuate based on the size of the main home.

The other change pertained to ADUs. There was a change in the section above that stated
that it did not need to be limited in size. For a time, it was limited to 50% of the main dwelling
but when that change occurred, they did not realize that it was in this section as well. It was
being stricken from the section to eliminate it. Because of the ambiguity, it has been
unenforceable. The hope was that cleaning up the language it can be enforced. Staff
recommended approval.

Chair Rushton asked about the restriction on ADUs being 50% and if by removing that
language, he could convert a large barn to an ADU. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that was the
case. He asked if he would be able to have an additional ADU if he has a one-third acre lot.
Mr. Prestwich confirmed that that was the case. He explained that because the City began
as rural with large lots and sometimes smaller homes, there is a lot of land that is
developable to homeowners. The State specifies that there must be more density and
‘middle-housing’. The City decided to allow ADUs to accommodate the State’s request.
One stipulation the Council put in place was that the property be owner-occupied.

In response to a scenario proposed by Commissioner Matheson regarding a child living on
the property, Mr. Carter stated that a child must be listed on the title of the property.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               15
February 10, 2022


Commissioner Park asked for clarification on the number of ADUs allowed with respect to
lot size. Mr. Prestwich stated that there must be at least 10,000 square feet to do a detached
ADU. Only one ADU is allowed regardless of lot size. Mr. Carter added that a single-family
residential unit is defined as no more than four people who are unrelated by blood or
marriage residing in the same property. For example, four unrelated young men going to
college can live on the property and be considered a single-family residential use. One of
the concerns was how adding an ADU affects the definition of a residential unit. The Code
specifies that an ADU shall not affect the number of persons by blood or marriage who can
live on the property. Ideally, it is used as a mother-in-law unit.

Chair Rushton stated that anyone applying for an ADU must come before the Planning
Commission where specific questions can be raised.

Commissioner Cluff moved the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL of the
Zone Text Change for Accessory Buildings, amending section 18.225.040(a) and
18.225.080(8)(a), as shown on the attached documents. Commissioner Park
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission. Commission Cannon was not present for the vote.

4.     DECISION ITEMS

       A.     N/A.

5.     MINUTES

       A.     JANUARY 13, 2022.

Commissioner Cluff moved to APPROVE the Minutes of the January 13, 2022,
Planning Commission Meeting, as presented. Commissioner Breinholt seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.
Commission Cannon was not present for the vote.

       B.     JANUARY 27, 2022

Commissioner Cluff moved to APPROVE the Minutes of the January 27, 2022;
Planning Commission Meeting as presented. Commissioner Breinholt seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.
Commission Cannon was not present for the vote.

6.     ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 9:15 p.m.
