         Riverton City Choice Awards for “Excellence in Education”
                        South Hills Middle School
                                         October 6, 2020



Isabel King – 9th Grade Girl Student – We are excited to celebrate Isabel King! Diligent, kind,
smart, and wickedly talented are all words that have been used to describe Isabel. Isabel is a
hardworking student and that hard work pays off not only in her performance in the classroom,
but on stage as well! She sets an outstanding example for her peers and is well respected, liked
and admired. Isabel is a problem solver and a collaborator and genuinely cares about others
and their success. She is always looking at ways to improve her surroundings and make the
world a little better in any way she can. We have no doubt that as Isabel continues to set and
achieve her goals she will make a difference not only in her own life, but in the lives of those
around her. We are so lucky to have her as a part of our SHMS family and the Riverton City
community.


Thayne Ward – 9th Grade Boy Student – Thayne is an incredibly diligent and hardworking
young man. He takes initiative and does not shy away for a difficult task or assignment. He has
a kind heard and goes out of his way to help adults and students alike. Thayne is a natural
leader. He is teachable, humble and makes time to serve those around him, setting a fantastic
example for his peers. He is an incredibly talented and fun person to be around. We are so
lucky to have Thayne as part of our South Hills family and member of the Riverton city
community.


Ms. Kristina Schulist –Special Education Teacher – Kris Schulist is a dedicated educator
who is always willing to go above and beyond to make sure students, parents, and colleagues
feel supported. Mrs. Schulist understands that everything an educator does should be centered
on what is best for students, and this is the foundation of her instructional practice. As a Special
Educator, Mrs. Schulist attends and participates in several parent meetings. She is always
prepared and makes sure to address parent concerns while focusing on solutions to help
students be successful. Mrs. Schulist is a champion for students and an asset to our South Hills
community.
