                                           RIVERTON CITY

                           AGREEMENT WITH RBP MANAGEMENT LLC
                                           FOR
                   EXCHANGE OF SERVICES FOR RIGHT OF WAY WARRANTY DEED




THIS AGREEMENT is made and executed this ___ day of ___, 2020 between RBP Management, LLC
(hereinafter "Developer") and Riverton City, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (hereinafter "City").

                                                  RECITALS

WHEREAS, Developer is desirous of obtaining infrastructure Improvements from City as set forth below in
the body of the Agreement, and

WHEREAS City is desirous of obtaining from Developer a Right Of Way Warranty Deed (hereinafter
“Deed”) required to complete the road as described by the following legal description as well as all
construction easements necessary for the 4150 W STP project.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises set forth below which all parties agree are adequate to
support this Contract, the parties hereby agree as follows:

1.      Improvements
        A.     Access #1
               i.       City will work with UDOT to provide access at this location as shown on the
               Developers site plans. Any cost deemed non-participating to the project by UDOT will be
               the sole responsibility of the Developer. The Developer understands that the full access at
               this location will be allowed until the time UTA provides a transit facility at this location. At
               that time the access will be right in/ right out.
               ii.      Utilities. City will install an 8 inch diameter sleeve for a future Secondary Water
               connection at this location.
        B.     Access #2
               i.       The City will work with UDOT to provide access at this location as shown on the
               Developers site plans. Any cost deemed non-participating to the project by UDOT will be
               the sole responsibility of the Developer. The Developer understands that the full access at
               this location will be allowed until the time UTA provides a transit facility at this location. At
               that time the access will be right in/ right out.
               ii.      Utilities. No utilities requested at this location.
        C.     Dutchman Lane
               i.       The City will work with UDOT to provide full access at this location and prepare the
               intersection for future signalization. Preparation will consist of construction of the
               intersection and providing sleeves for signal wiring. Installation of the signal is not included
               in the Impact Fee Facilities Plan and would be installed through other means.
               (Developer/City)
               ii.      Utilities. The City will install full Culinary Water and Secondary Water Stubs to
               both east and west sides of 4150 W.


AGREEMENT BETWEEN –RIVERTON CITY AND RBP L.L.C.                                                    Page 1 of 2
2.      Deed Legal Description
        A.      An parcel of land being a part of that entire tract described in that Special Warranty Deed
        recorded June 2, 2008 as Entry No. 10442470 in Book 9613, at Page 335 in the Office of the Salt
        Lake County Recorder and located in the Northeast Quarter of Section 31, Township 3 South, Range
        1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian. Said parcel of land is described as follows:
                i.       Beginning at the intersection of an existing fence and the southerly boundary line of
                said entire tract, which is 1239.18 feet N. 00°36’22” E. along the easterly line of said Section
                31 and 26.64 feet S. 84°56’30” W. and 402.36 feet N. 89°39’09” W. from the East Quarter
                Corner of said Section 31; thence westerly along said existing fence and southerly boundary
                line N. 89°39’09” W. 130.19 feet to a point of non-tangency with a 1014.00 – foot radius
                curve to the left, concave southwesterly (Radius point bears S. 57°52’04” W.); thence
                northwesterly 17.32 feet along the arc of said curve, through a central angle of 00°58’43”
                (Chord bears N. 32°37’17” W. 17.32 feet) to the southwesterly corner of that parcel of land
                described in that Special Warranty Deed recorded September 5, 2018 as Entry No. 12843109
                in Book 10709, at Page 7220 in the Office of said Recorder and shown on that certain
                ALTA/ACSM Land Title Survey filed as S2007-07-0584 in the Office of said Salt Lake
                Surveyor; thence S. 89°08’03” E. 132.14 feet (Record = South 89°23’31” East) along the
                southerly boundary line of said parcel of land to a point of non-tangency with a 1126.00 –
                foot radius curve to the right, concave southwesterly (Radius point bears S. 60°38’59” W.);
                thence southeasterly 15.29 feet along the arc of said curve, through a central angle of
                00°46’41” (Chord bears S. 28°57’41” E. 15.29 feet) to the Point of Beginning.
                ii.      The above described entire tract of land contains 1,822 sq. ft. in area or 0.042 acre,
                more or less.

3.   COMPLETE AGREEMENT
This instrument constitutes and contains the entire agreement and final understanding concerning Employee’s
employment, voluntary resignation from the same, and the other subject matters addressed herein between the
parties. It is intended by the parties as a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of their Agreement. It
supersedes and replaces all prior negotiations and all agreements proposed or otherwise, whether written or
oral, concerning the subject matter hereof. Any representation, promise, or agreement not specifically
included in this Agreement shall not be binding upon or enforceable against either party. This is a fully
integrated document.
4.   REVOCATION
Parties may revoke this Agreement in its entirety during the seven days following execution of the Agreement
by Partiers. Any revocation of the Agreement must be in writing and hand delivered to the City Recorder,
during the revocation period. This Agreement will become effective and enforceable seven days following
execution by Parties, unless it is revoked during the seven-day period.
5.   SEVERABILITY OF INVALID PROVISION
If any provision of this Agreement or the application thereof is held invalid, the invalidity shall not affect
other provisions or applications of the Agreement which can be given effect without the invalid provisions or
applications and to this end the provisions of this Agreement are declared to be severable.
6.   CHOICE OF LAW




AGREEMENT BETWEEN –RIVERTON CITY AND RBP L.L.C.                                                    Page 2 of 2
     A. This Agreement shall be deemed to have been executed and delivered within the State of Utah, and
        the rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall be construed and enforced in accordance with,
        and governed by, the laws of the State of Utah without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
     B. Jurisdiction and venue for any dispute as to interpretation or enforcement of the Agreement shall be
        brought in the Third District Court in and for the State of Utah or the United States District Court for
        the District of Utah.

7.   CONSTRUCTION OF AGREEMENT
The language of all parts of this Agreement shall in all cases be construed as a whole, according to its fair
meaning, and not strictly for or against any of the parties.
8.   COUNTERPART EXECUTION - EFFECT - PHOTOCOPIES
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, and each counterpart, when executed, shall have the
efficacy of a signed original. Photographic copies of such signed counterparts may be used in lieu of the
originals for any purpose.
9.   LITIGATION - COSTS AND EXPENSES
In the event of litigation in connection with or concerning the subject matter of this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled to recover all costs and expenses incurred by such party in connection therewith,
including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
10. WAIVER OF BREACH – EFFECT
No waiver of any breach of any term or provision of this Agreement shall be construed to be, nor shall be, a
waiver of any other breach of this Agreement. No waiver shall be binding unless in writing and signed by the
party waiving the breach.
11. FULL UNDERSTANDING AND VOLUNTARY ACCEPTANCE
In entering this Agreement, Parties represents that they fully understands and knowingly and voluntarily
accepts the terms of this Agreement and enter into said Agreement.
12. FURTHER EXECUTIONS
All parties agree to cooperate fully and to execute any and all supplementary documents and to take all
additional actions that may be necessary or appropriate to give full force to the basic terms and intent of this
Agreement and which are not inconsistent with its terms.
13. HEADING NOT BINDING
The use of headings in this Agreement is only for ease of reference and the headings have no effect and are
not to be considered part or a term of this Agreement.
Parties acknowledge that they have read the foregoing Agreement and accept and agree to the provisions it
contains and hereby execute it voluntarily with full understanding of its consequences.




AGREEMENT BETWEEN –RIVERTON CITY AND RBP L.L.C.                                                     Page 3 of 2
                                                   Developer
     Attest
                                                   By

                                                   Print Name

                                                   Its



                                                   Riverton City Corporation
     Attest


                                                   Riverton City Mayor




EXECUTED at Riverton, Utah this __________ day of February, 2020
___________________________________________________________
Virginia Loader
Riverton City Recorder


     Approved as to Form




     City Attorney




AGREEMENT BETWEEN –RIVERTON CITY AND RBP L.L.C.                                Page 4 of 2
                                                  Exhibit A




AGREEMENT BETWEEN –RIVERTON CITY AND RBP L.L.C.               Page 5 of 2
                                                  Exhibit B




AGREEMENT BETWEEN –RIVERTON CITY AND RBP L.L.C.               Page 6 of 2
