UFA
                 UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY
Updates for Sept. 2020


Passing of Firefighter/Engineer Chris Cage: UFA lost one of its own when Firefighter/Engineer Chris
Cage died on Saturday, August 29th. He succumbed to a difficult battle with cancer which is presumed to be
work-related. Chris retired from the department in September of 2016 after spending 31 years with the
department. As an active member of Utah Task Force 1 Chris was part of the response to the World Trade
Center following the attacks on 9/11/2001. He was an expert in this field and spent a significant amount of
time training and mentoring others while being an active member of Salt Lake County Fire, Unified Fire
Authority and Utah Task Force 1.
US&R Deployment to Louisiana: On August 26, Utah Task Force 1 received an activation notice from
FEMA to respond to Hurricane Laura as it approached the Gulf Coast. The team is comprised of 80
personnel from UFA, Draper City, Park City, Salt Lake City, South Jordan, West Jordan and West Valley
Fire Departments. After damage and needs assessments were completed by FEMA on scene, the team was
demobilized and returned to Salt Lake City on August 29-30.
EMAC Deployment to California: California sent out a request on August 19 for help with their extreme
wildfire conditions. Utah responded with two task forces and UFA was assigned to Task Force 2 along with
West Valley, Provo, Orem, Lone Peak and Pleasant Grove. The fire complex we are assigned to is the BTU
complex. The largest fire in this complex is called the Elkhorn Fire. It is the fire that TF2 is assigned to. They
working out of a staging base near Red Bluff, CA.

Our crews right now are assigned to areas where they have been doing direct fire attack and indirect fire line
construction. Other crews and heavy equipment have created dozer lines around various parts of the fire. TF2
is keeping it in check and making sure the fire doesn’t jump those lines. Cal Fire has been very appreciative
of our crew’s assistance.

Strategic Plan Update: UFA will be holding stakeholder meetings Sept. 8 and 9. At EOC and Sept. 17
and 18 at Station 123 and lastly on Sept. 19 via a Zoom to discuss an external SWOC (strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities, challenges) analysis with mayors, council members, business leaders and school districts.
These meetings are critical to helping UFA build a successful strategic plan.

Recruiting update: We had 397 applicants take the written test with 90 moving onto oral interviews that
took place the end of August. From there candidates will be ranked into A, B, C, and D bands, after which,
the background check process will begin. It is anticipated that the 2021 class will include 20 to 25 recruits.

Captains Process update: UFA will begin its new Captains promotion process in September with a
“Captain’s Boot Camp.” After that a written exam will follow in early October, followed by an assessment
process in late October. After all of that is completed, UFA will have an active promotion list to pull future
captains from until the spring of 2022.
