                                      City Council Meeting Agenda
                                            February 18, 2020


PRESENTER:                Ryan Carter
                          Resolution No. 20-15 Amending Sections 2.4 and 4.1 of the City
                          Council Rules of
ITEM:
                          Order and Procedure - Ryan Carter

SUMMARY:



This item follows a discussion held during the Riverton City Council's Strategic Plan Retreat on January
25, 2020. Two items arose during this discussion which affect the Riverton City Council Rules of Order
and Procedure.



During the morning discussion regarding the roles played by each branch of municipal government,
City staff mentioned an issue regarding governance of agendas for City Council meetings. Staff
mentioned the fact that some items which were placed on the agenda during the preceding year did
not have support of a majority of the Council and ultimately were not adopted. While the decision to
approve, or not approve, any item on the agenda is certainly the Council's prerogative, Staff believes
the overall process of conducting Council meetings would be more efficient if an item received the
support of two council members before it is placed onto the Council's agenda. Section 1 of the
attached resolution amends the City Council Rules of Order and Procedure to this effect.



Also during morning discussion, a statute was brought up as having an effect on the Council's
relationship with the Riverton City Police Chief, known as Utah Code § 10-3-918. Mayor Staggs
asked me to review and interpret Utah Code § 10-3-918 after our retreat meeting.
One preliminary matter has to do with recent legislation which most recently amended it during the
the 2019 session of the Utah Legislature. Said legislation is known as HB 145, enclosed with this
agenda item. Importantly, the bill didn’t create Utah Code §10- 3-918. This statute has been in
existence since the late 1970s. The intent of the legislation adopted in 2019 had a narrow scope: to
eliminate the power of any bodies known as “commissions” from having any administrative power in
a police department of cities smaller than second class.



Through our exposure to the Unified Police Department in years past, some members of the Council may
be aware of a body called the Deputy Sheriff’s Merit Commission ("DSMC") which existed within the
administrative framework of the Sheriff’s operations. The DSMC had several responsibilities, including
approval of employment policies, and approval of testing standards for hiring. The DSMC also

                                                                                                           1
served as a disciplinary review board for any appealed employment disciplinary decisions made by
the Sheriff.



Utah Code allows for commissions like the DSMC to be created in cities of the first and second class, but
doesn’t require it. [See: Utah Code §10-3-1001 et seq.] Wherever they exist, commissions are typically
staffed by volunteers and act in some fashion as body which provides oversight to the administrative
operations of a police chief. Commissions can also be seen as something which restricts the ability of a
chief to lead his/her department. At any rate, It is possible that cities smaller than the second class had
crafted ordinances where law enforcement operations were subjected to commissions to some degree.
Then again, it is also true that the legislative bodies of smaller municipal governments were also called
commissions at one time. This legal climate may have caused confusion as to what a commission was,
what it could do, and what sort of authority it had over law enforcement. Thus, it appears the Legislature
decided to get rid of any confusion regarding who has authority over a police department by dispensing
with the involvement of commissions in smaller cities.



I would now like to offer my interpretation of the statute by breaking it down into its respective
subsections. My comments are found as bullet points after language quoted in the statute:



Utah Code §10-3-918. Chief of police or marshal in a city of the third, fourth, or fifth class
or town.
 "Subject to Subsection 10-3-913(4), the chief of police or marshal in each city of the
third, fourth, or fifth class or town:
(1) shall:

(a) exercise and perform the duties that are prescribed by the legislative body;"

      When a legislative body adopts an ordinance which governs a certain type of conduct, this is
      how the legislature “prescribe[s]” duties under this subsection of the statute. Once a duty is so
      “prescribed” it becomes not just the right, but the duty of law enforcement (under the police
      chief) to enforce that ordinance. The enforcement of the ordinance by the police chief meets
      the “exercise and perform duties” portion of this statute. Also, the legislative body can set
      performance standards to the extent the law allows, such as setting a response time for calls
      related to domestic violence. I believe this would be a type of “SLA” that members of the
      Council may refer to. Again, a police chief who meets these standards “prescribed by the
      legislative body” is indeed “exercise[ing] and perform[ing] duties” prescribed to the chief.
"(b) be under the direction, control, and supervision of the person or body that appointed
the chief or marshal; and"
      Exactly who has authority to direct, control and supervise the Chief is another matter entirely. Note
      that Utah Code §10-3-918 doesn’t state exactly who in any particular municipal government has the
      authority to “appoint” the police chief. This is because there are several types of municipal
      government which means that it is possible in City A that the power to appoint belongs to a mayor,
      and in City B, it belongs to a council, where the mayor has (or even doesn’t have) the right to vote
      on the selection. Under Utah Code §10-3b-104, it is the Mayor who appoints a person to fill a
      municipal office. The chief of police qualifies as a municipal office. Thus the Mayor’s office appoints,
      albeit with the advice and consent of the council. Utah Code §10-3-918 says that whomever has the
      power to appoint the police chief also has the power to supervise.
                                                                                                                 2
      The statute does not say supervisory powers belong to a legislative body that possesses
      power to provide advice and consent to an appointment.
"(c) adopt a written policy that prohibits the stopping, detention, or search of any person when
the action is solely motivated by considerations of race, color, ethnicity, age, or gender; and"
      N/A

"(2) may, with the consent of the person or body that appointed the chief or marshal,
appoint assistants to the chief of police or marshal."
      N/A

The foregoing analysis brings us to the following question: how does Utah Code §10-3-918 affect the
creation and operational aspects of the Riverton Police Department ("RPD"). In the opinion of the City
Attorney, invocation of Utah Code § 10-3-918 didn’t move the compass needle for the RPD in a new
direction from the course it currently holds. We routinely see Chief Hutson make presentations to the
Council, although under the banner of RLESA meetings. Regardless of whether the information was
conveyed in a Council or RLESA meeting, Chief Hutson's presentations have satisfied the need to give the
council information which demonstrates the RPD is indeed performing the duties “prescribed” by the
Council. These interactions demonstrate compliance with Utah Code § 10-3-918, and keep the Council
well-positioned to determine whether it should adopt new duties, performance standards, etc.. These
decisions would go together with budget considerations which are also the Council’s prerogative.

The presentations by the RPD to the Council do not mean Chief Hutson is directly supervised by the
Council itself. Indeed, the type of information conveyed (statistics, general announcements of
programs, etc) isn’t specific enough to match what a supervisor (such as the Mayor) would be privy
to. The Mayor is the sole elected official under Utah law with the power to “(i) keep the peace and
enforce the laws of the municipality; [and] (ii) ensure that all applicable statutes and municipal
ordinances and resolutions are faithfully executed and observed;” under Utah Code Ann. § 10 -3b-
104. This latter statutory power is what gives the Mayor the power to examine how any given case is
being investigated. And, as stated above, the Mayor is the one who appoints the chief of police.



In addition to the foregoing reasons, it is important to keep in mind that the disclosure of information
during the course of a police investigation can impact the integrity of the investigation itself.
Therefore, staff has drafted an amendment to the Riverton City Council Rules of Order and
Procedure which acknowledges the need of the RPD to maintain confidentiality over investigations.
The amendment to the City Council Rules of Order and Procedure isolates the information gathered
in pending investigations from Council review.



FISCAL IMPACT:            N/A

FUNDING SOURCE:           N/A

ATTACHMENTS:

02-18-2020-Issue Paper Amending Riverton City Council Rules of Order and
Procedure.doc HB415 Law enforcement structure (00000002).pdf
Resolution No 20-15 Amending Council rules of order and procedure.docx

                                                                                                           3
RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:

"I move the Riverton City Council adopt Resolution No 20-15 amending Sections 2.4 and 4.1 of the
City Council Rules of Order and Procedure as provided in the City Council Agenda Packet."




                                                                                                   4
