                                STORM WATER UTILITY ORDINANCE



        13.25.010     Purpose.
        13.25.020     Definitions.
        13.25.030     Stormwater utility created.
        13.25.040     Maintenance of city storm sewer facilities and assets.
        13.25.050     Utility administration.
        13.25.060     Service charge imposed.
        13.25.070     System of rates and charges.
        13.25.080     Billing and collection.
        13.25.090     Appeal of charges.
        13.25.100     Annual report to stormwater utility customers.

13.25.010 Purpose.
The city finds and declares that absent effective maintenance, operation, regulation and
control existing stormwater drainage conditions in all areas within the city constitute a
potential hazard to the health, safety and general welfare of the city. The city council further
finds that natural and manmade storm sewer facilities and conveyances constitute a storm
sewer system and that effective improvement, regulation, and control of stormwater through
formation by the city of a stormwater utility requires the transfer to the utility of all storm
sewer facilities and conveyances and related rights belonging to the city. [Ord. 10-08 § 1
(Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-010.]

13.25.020 Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Words used in the
singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular; words used in the
present tense shall include the future tense. The word “shall” is mandatory and not
discretionary. The word “may” is permissive. Words not defined in this section shall be
construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined in the latest
edition of Webster’s Dictionary.

“BMP” means best management practices to improve stormwater quality as defined in
Riverton City’s “Guidance Document for Stormwater Management.”

“City” means Riverton City, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
“City engineer” means the Riverton City engineer or engineer’s designee.

“Council” means Riverton City council.

“County” means Salt Lake County.

“Customer” or “person” means any individual; public or private corporation and its officers;
partnership; association; firm; trustee; executor of an estate; the state or its departments,
institutions, bureaus, or agencies; county; city; political subdivision; or any other
governmental or legal entity recognized by law.

“Developed parcel” means any parcel whose surface has been altered by grading, filling, or
construction of any improvement.

“Discharge Component” means a unit of measure which accounts for a parcel’s discharge
of storm water into the city stormwater system. The Discharge Component is calculated by
finding the aggregate amount of impervious surface, divided by 2744.




“Guidance Document for Stormwater Management” means Salt Lake County Public Works
Department “Guidance Document for Stormwater Management.”

“Hard Surface Unit (HSU)” means a unit equal 2,744 square feet of impervious surface.

“Impervious surface” means a parcel’s hard surface area that causes water to run off its
surface in quantities or speeds greater than under natural conditions and discharge directly
into the city’s storm sewer system. Some examples of impervious surfaces are rooftops,
concrete or asphalt paving, walkways, patios, driveways, parking lots or storage areas, and
gravel that has been subject to surface traffic, including compacted gravel surfaces.

“Mitigation” means on-site facilities or practices which reduce stormwater quantity or
improve stormwater quality.

“National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Stormwater Regulations” means
the provisions of the Federal Clean Water Act establishing specific permit requirements for
the control of stormwater discharge.

“Parcel” means the smallest, separately segregated unit of land having an owner. A parcel
has boundaries and surface area, and is documented with a property number by the county.
“Pollution component” means the pollutants commonly found in the stormwater discharged
from a parcel of land. A pollution component varies according to the use of a land parcel,
therefore differing values will be assigned to a pollution component if the property is used
for single family residential, multifamily residential, commercial, and agricultural.

“Roadway Use Component” means the transportation activities which result from a
particular use of land. A roadway use component varies according to the use of a land
parcel. Values are assigned by use of the Trip Generation Manual, published by the
Institute of Transportation Engineers.

“Single-family residential parcel” means any parcel of land containing a single-family
dwelling unit.

“Storm sewer drainage system” means all manmade storm sewer facilities and
conveyances, and natural stormwater systems owned or maintained by the city that store,
control, treat, and/or convey stormwater.

“Storm sewer facilities” means any facility, improvement, development, or property made for
controlling stormwater quantity and quality.

“Stormwater” means water produced by storms, surface drainage, snow and ice melt, and
other water handled by the storm sewer drainage system.

“Stormwater Design Standards Manual” means Riverton City Stormwater Design Standards
Manual maintained by the engineering division and approved by the city engineer.

“Stormwater utility” or “utility” means the utility created by this chapter, which operates,
maintains, regulates, and improves storm sewer facilities and programs within Riverton City.

“Undeveloped parcel” means any parcel that has not been altered by grading, filling, or
construction. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-020.]

13.25.030 Stormwater utility created.
There is hereby created and established a stormwater utility and service charge rate
structure. The utility will have regulatory authority and responsibility for planning, design,
construction, maintenance, administration and operation of all city storm sewer
conveyances and facilities. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-030.]

13.25.040 Maintenance of city storm sewer facilities and assets.
The utility shall operate, maintain, and improve all existing city storm drainage facilities used
for the conveyance of stormwaters, through, under or over lands or watercourses, beginning
at a point where the stormwaters first enter the storm sewer system of the city and ending in
each instance at a point where the stormwaters exit from the system. Stormwater facilities
do not include government-owned streets or those storm sewer facilities operated and
maintained by, or for, the county or the state of Utah. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997
§ 14-5-040.]

13.25.050 Utility administration.
The storm sewer utility shall be administered by the city engineer. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A).
Code 1997 § 14-5-050.]

13.25.060 Service charge imposed.
All persons otherwise responsible for impervious surfaces within the city which contribute
runoff to the stormwater system or who otherwise use or benefit from the stormwater utility
of the city will be responsible for paying the stormwater utility fees as set forth in the
Riverton City fee schedule.

13.25.070 System of rates and charges.
(1) Service Fees Imposed. The city will impose storm sewer drainage fee rates and charges
on each parcel of real property within the city except Riverton-owned facilities, public streets
and stormwater facilities operated and maintained by or for the stormwater utility division,
Salt Lake County or the state of Utah. The charges shall fund the administration, planning,
design, construction, water quality programming, operation, maintenance, and repair of
existing and future stormwater facilities.

(2) Methods of Determining Benefit from Stormwater Utility.

          (a) All city users of residential and nonresidential land benefit from city
          management of stormwater systems. This benefit is derived from the following
          three activities:

               (i) a discharge component;

               (ii) pollution component; and

               (iii) a roadway use component.
(3) Method of Determining Service Fee Rates. Storm drainage service fees shall be
assessed on each parcel of real property within the city, except Riverton-owned facilities,
public streets and state or county stormwater facilities. A Base service Fee Rate shall be set
forth in the Riverton City fee schedule. The base service fee shall be applied to fit the use
of the city stormwater system by each parcel of real property within the city, according to the
following formula:

       (a) BR * [[DC / HSU] + [ISA* PC / ] + [RC * 0.1]]

       (b) the values used in the formula in subsection (a) of this section are defined as
follows:

           BR = Base Rate

           DC = Discharge Component

           ISA = Actual Impervious Surface Area on a parcel of real property

           PC = Pollution Component (Note: Pollution Component varies by use of land,
           distinguished in the following categories, and are assigned the following values:
           Single Family Residential, value___; Multifamily Residential, value ____;
           Commercial/Manufacturing, value ______; Agricultural value _____.)

           RC = Roadway Use Component (Note: Roadway Use Component equates to the
           footprint of buildings found on a parcel of land, multiplied by a trip generation
           factor which takes into account land use and is identified by the Institute of
           Transportation Engineers).




           () Undeveloped Parcels. Notwithstanding the application described in subsection
           (3) of this section, Undeveloped parcels shall have no charges assessed.

           (c) Agricultural properties. Agricultural properties are regulated by the US
           Department of Agriculture for activities related to storm water management. Fees
           paid by users of agricultural land shall be deemed to satisfy fees owed for
           Stormwater management within the city.
13.25.080 Billing and collection.
(1) Utility Enterprise Fund. This chapter creates the stormwater utility fund. All revenues
received from storm drainage user fees shall be placed in the enterprise fund as a
designated fund, to be left separate and apart from all other city funds. The collection,
accounting, and expenditure of all stormwater utility funds shall be in accordance with the
Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act.

(2) Billing. The city shall bill, or cause to be billed, property owners for stormwater drainage
utility services. Fees and charges shall be considered delinquent if not paid as determined
by the procedures established by the city and will be a debt to the city, which shall be
subject to recovery in a civil action. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-080.]

13.25.090 Appeal of charges.
Any customer who disagrees with the storm drainage user fee for his or her parcel may
apply to the city engineer for a user fee adjustment. The adjustment request must state the
grounds for adjustment and must be filed in writing with the city engineer no later than 30
days after receipt of billing. The city engineer shall review the request and basis for user
charges to determine whether an error was made in the calculation or application of the fee.
The city engineer may approve an adjustment to the fee.

An appeal of a city engineer’s decision may be brought before the city manager within 30
days after the date of the city engineer’s decision. The decision of the city manager shall be
final and conclusive.

If an appeal of charges is successful, credit will be applied to all charges from the time of
the appealed billing, and will be reflected on a future billing after the appeal is granted. [Ord.
10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-090.]

13.25.100 Annual report to stormwater utility customers.
The city’s stormwater utility, acting through the citizen’s stormwater management advisory
committee, shall cause to be completed an annual report on the stormwater utility which, if
accepted, shall be presented for approval by the city council. This report shall summarize
the financial activities of the utility and the major areas of expenditure, field activities,
accomplishments, and the upcoming year’s priorities. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997
§ 14-5-100.]
