                                      City Staff Internal Document

2022-2025 Strategic Priorities
Council adopted April 5, 2022 | Council updated June 20, 2023 (Staff’s status update August 7, 2024)




Vision Statement

Citizens, families, businesses, and leaders unite in building a prosperous city with a strong sense of community.



Mission Statement

Riverton City provides essential services that enhance the quality of life and sense of community for all citizens. We
foster an atmosphere of service and collaboration, generating positive citizen involvement and innovative solutions. We
strive to be responsible stewards of public funds and property and act with integrity as we meet the needs of the
community.



Organizational Values

The following organizational values have been established to guide Riverton City elected officials and employees as they
conduct the business of the city government and interact with the public.

       Collaboration – We find ways to work together within our city and in the extended community.
       Service – We serve the community, striving to fulfill our duties with integrity.
       Stewardship – We take pride in what we do and in our care of public resources.
       Integrity – We are honest in our endeavors and ethical in our actions.
       Innovation – We strive to always find the best solution.




                                                                                                                           1
                                    City Staff Internal Document
Strategic Theme #1: Sense of Community

       Objective 1.1: Maintain a strong sense of community.             Complete / No Further Action          
           o Continue to offer, and look for opportunities to improve, a  Complete / Ongoing                     
                variety of events to ensure the community has             In Progress / Partially Complete      
                opportunities to gather.                               On Radar / Scheduled                  
           o Maintain events that promote a sense of patriotism.   No Action Taken                           
           o Provide and encourage volunteer opportunities.  
           o Continually develop and foster a sense of community pride.  

       Objective 1.2: Maintain a visible public safety presence and increase citizen engagement.
           o Maintain appropriate police department staffing levels to ensure timely response to community
                concerns, measured by relevant and objective metrics.  
           o Ensure the continued visible presence of the police department through active participation in
                community and neighborhood events.  
           o Prioritize the continued deployment of full-time school resource officers in all public middle schools and
                high schools in the city.  

       Objective 1.3: Actively engage and inform residents.
           o Ensure resident volunteer committees meet on a quarterly basis at minimum and present in a city
                council meeting once per year.  
           o Continue to expand digital communications efforts.  
           o Disseminate information proactively to educate the public on issues important to the city.  

Strategic Theme #2: Connectivity & Infrastructure

       Objective 2.1: Expand, improve, and maintain an active                 Complete / No Further Action     
        transportation system.                                                Complete / Ongoing                
            o Identify and prioritize the addition or expansion of public      In Progress / Partially Complete 
                trails as well as funding sources for those trails.         On Radar / Scheduled             
            o Explore the feasibility of using canal roads as part of a        No Action Taken                  
                public trail system and determine the willingness of canal
                companies to allow their roads to be used for such a purpose. 
            o Identify and map areas in the city that should have sidewalks that don’t currently have them.

       Objective 2.2: Properly develop city infrastructure and facilities.
           o Develop a plan and identify funding sources for a pedestrian bridge near the Welby Jacobs Canal to cross
                13400 S.  
           o Identify ways to improve east-west connectivity. 
           o Properly plan for and develop two public parks in the SLR project area. 
           o Explore the viability and cost of improving the Welby Jacobs Canal reservoir into an amenity. 
           o Support investments in multimodal transportation options, including enhanced public transit and
                significant “active transportation” bike paths for commuting and recreation. 

       Objective 2.3: Enhance the digital infrastructure of the city.
           o Increase the number of choices for residential broadband access.  
           o Connect city assets via a private network using ARPA funds. /

                                                                                                                          2
                                     City Staff Internal Document
Strategic Theme #3: Economic Development

       Objective 3.1: Develop a proactive economic development              Complete / No Further Action         
        strategy.                                                           Complete / Ongoing                    
            o Explore the viability and benefits of having a dedicated       In Progress / Partially Complete     
                economic development resource for the city.                On Radar / Scheduled                 
            o Through creating an economic development and retention                                              
                                                                             No Action Taken
                plan, identify areas of the city that can be developed or
                redeveloped that will broaden sales tax base. 
            o Move sales tax revenue from $10 million to $15 million by 2025. 
            o Ensure city policies encourage Riverton businesses participation and promotion in events. 

       Objective 3.2: Attract and recruit new businesses to the community and retain existing businesses.
           o Incentivize businesses who are consistent sales tax generators to the city to help minimize the fee and
                tax burden for residents. 
           o Identify ways to support and retain small businesses. 
           o Attract additional sit-down restaurants to the city. 
           o Assist potential businesses with site selection. 

       Objective 3.3: Enhance the Riverton Town Center area.
           o Finalize interlocal taxing agreements for the CRAs in the Town Center area. /
           o Complete projects within the next four years in the CRA areas. 
           o Identify opportunities for redevelopment in the Town Center area. 


Strategic Theme #4: Sustainability

       Objective 4.1: Improve and expand the city’s water resources and       Complete / No Further Action     
        systems.                                                              Complete / Ongoing                
            o Increase the city’s water supply by re-engaging the Green        In Progress / Partially Complete 
                Well, making the city less reliant on the Conservancy          On Radar / Scheduled             
                District.                                                                                     
                                                                               No Action Taken
            o Identify funding and install meters on all remaining
                irrigation water connections that don’t have a meter and promote water conservation. 
            o Purchase enough Welby Jacob Canal water shares to support city needs through build out.
            o Continually improve the pressurization and filtration of the secondary irrigation water system.  
            o Explore funding opportunities to transition city-owned or maintained park strips from grass to
                waterwise landscaping. / 

       Objective 4.2: Remain fiscally responsible and ensure that services are sustainable into the future.
           o Develop a 5-year, long-range fiscal plan that includes the prioritization and financial implications of
                specific projects.  
            o   Maintain a General Fund balance of at least 20% of revenues.  
            o   Work toward saving 180 days cash on hand for enterprise funds with capital assets.  
            o   Maintain a 10% fund balance for the Riverton Law Enforcement Service Area and Riverton Fire Service
                Area.  
            o   Consistently budget to lower the debt per capita each year so the city can ultimately become debt free.
                 
                                                                                                                          3
                                      City Staff Internal Document
            o   Budget 50% of all unprojected net revenue in the General Fund toward lowering callable debt. 
            o   Compare bids for sanitation services from external providers to the cost of self-providing sanitation
                services. 

       Objective 4.3: Properly plan for the future to ensure the long-term stewardship of city property and facilities.
           o Ensure city streets, parks, and facilities are properly maintained, using a rating system when possible,
                and budget accordingly. 
           o Estimate the upfront and ongoing fiscal impact for capital projects. 
           o Analyze the quality and age of core city infrastructure and prioritize replacement projects based on
                need. 




                                                                                                                            4
