                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            December 15, 2020
Subject:         Text Amendment, Ordinance No. 20-31 - Amending the Accessory Structure
                 Ordinance Sections 18-225.030.3.ii, 18.225.030.5.i, and 18.225.040.3.a.b.c,
                 Addressing Square Footage Requirements, Amendments proposed by Riverton
                 City


On November 12, 2020, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this proposed
text amendment. Minutes of that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted to
recommend the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance# 20-31, amending sections 18.225.030 and 18.225.040 of the
Accessory Structures ordinance to address square footage requirements, as shown on Exhibit “A”

Background

This is a public hearing for a Zoning Text Change proposed by Riverton City. The Zone text change
involves two changes to Chapter 18.225 Accessory Structures. This ordinance currently limits the total
allowed square footage for accessory structures to 25% of the rear yard area, as measured from the closest
point of the main structure to the rear property line. This is a difficult measurement for most property
owners, and even contractors to make, and has led to confusion as to the potential buildable square footage
for some lots. In addition, it results in a disparity between lots of the same overall size but with different
back yard areas. Staff is proposing amending the ordinance to set the maximum allowed accessory
structure square footage at 10% of the total lot area. This is a simpler and more intuitive measurement,
and will make the allowance more consistent across lot configurations. That percentage also results in
allowed square footages reasonably close to the average allowance under the current 25% limitation.

The second change involves the lower end of the square footage requirements. The ordinance currently
allows accessory structures at 120 square feet or less reduced setback and architectural requirements.
That number was intended to be consistent with the threshold in the International Building Code at which a
permit was required. However, the IBC currently does not require a building permit for any accessory
structure at or under 200 square foot. This has resulted in a situation where a property owner is not required
to get a building permit, and therefore may not even inquire with the City regarding other applicable
standards, but is still, if over 120 square feet, required to meet exterior materials and increased setback
requirements. Staff if proposing that the standard be made consistent with the 200 square foot threshold
in the IBC, as shown on the attached draft.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of these amendments as shown.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

      1.   Proposed Code Amendments
Report by: TJP
12/8/2020
Exhibit “A”

Chapter 18.225, ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
18.225.030      Location of accessory structures.

(6) Side Setbacks. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the side property line, except
as follows:

      (c) Accessory structures of 120 200 square feet or less may be located a minimum of one foot from the side
     property lines, provided no portion of the building extends over the property line and runoff is contained to the
     property.

(7) Rear Setbacks. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the rear property line, except
as follows:

     (a) Accessory structures of 120 200 square feet or less shall be located a minimum of one foot from the rear
     property line, provided no portion of the building extends over the property line and runoff is contained to the
     property.

18.225.040 Architectural standards.
(1) Maximum Size. The maximum size of any accessory structure is two times the size of the footprint of the
principal structure (house and attached garage), and the maximum total size of all accessory structure(s) on any
parcel shall be limited to 25 percent of the rear yard area, defined as the area from the closest point of the rear
foundation to rear property line.ten (10) percent of the total lot area, with any private lane as approved by Riverton
City excluded from the lot area.

 (3) Exterior Materials and Design. Architectural standards, including general appearance, building materials, and
color, shall be as follows:

     (a) Accessory structures of 120 200 square feet or less shall be consistent in color and design with the main
     dwelling. Exposed plywood or particle board, corrugated metal, or similar materials are prohibited as exterior
     materials.

     (b) Accessory structures greater than 120 200 square feet shall utilize only exterior building materials that are
     present on the main dwelling, excluding trim and nonarchitectural elements, structural materials, and prohibited
     materials. Colors shall be similar in tone and complementary to those used on the main dwelling. Wood or
     wood product siding, exposed plywood or particle board, corrugated metal, or similar materials are prohibited
     as exterior materials. Fiber-cement siding and aluminum or other metal siding may be substituted for vinyl
     siding if such siding is similar in color and appearance to the vinyl siding used on the main dwelling, as
     approved by the planning manager.

(d) For accessory structures greater than 120 200 square feet where exterior materials on the main dwelling consist
exclusively of masonry such as brick or stone, the exterior side of the accessory structure facing the front of the lot
shall be entirely masonry of the same type and style on the main dwelling. For the remaining sides, the lower one-
third of each side shall be masonry as used on the front elevation, and the remaining exterior may consist of stucco
and/or vinyl or fiber-cement siding that is complementary to the main dwelling in color and design.




Report by: TJP
12/8/2020
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              7
November 12, 2020

Commissioner James moved to APPROVE Application PLZ-20-2036, “Whitney Short-
Term Rental” to be located at 12931 Sandy Slope Circle with the following conditions:

      1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
             applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances specifically the City’s
             Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190.051) and appliable Building and
             Fire Codes.

      2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City Business License.

      3.     Home Occupation must operate according to the Riverton City Code for
             Short-Term Rentals as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance.

Commissioner Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

Chair Cannon asked if going forward they can require that a similar request comply with
CC&Rs and if so, how that would be enforced. Mr. Prestwich explained that it is a specific
requirement under the short-term rental and could be further addressed with the City
Attorney to determine how to track that internally and convey it to the Commission.

Commissioner Lefgren supported including the CC&Rs. As a Commission Member, he
appreciates knowing whether there are CC&Rs recognizing that it is not the role of the City
to enforce them.

      c.     ZONE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING AMENDMENTS
             TO TITLE 18 REGARDING FOOD TRUCKS.

Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge presented the staff report and provided
the Commission with a variation of South Jordan City’s Food Truck Ordinance. As a result
of feedback received at the last meeting, staff simplified the draft ordinance.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved to recommend APPROVAL of the Zone Text Change
for locating and operating Food Trucks, creating Section 18.230, Mobile Food
Vendors, as shown on the attached documents. Commissioner Russell seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

      d.     ZONE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING AMENDMENTS
             TO ITS ACCESSORY STRUCTURE ORDINANCE ADDRESSING SQUARE
             FOOTAGE REQUIREMENTS.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated that the proposed text change pertains
to the maximum allowed size for accessory structures. There are two standards in the
ordinance that include the following:
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  8
November 12, 2020


       1.     Individual structures can exceed two times the footprint of the house; and

       2.     The total amount of accessory structure square footage cannot exceed 25%
              of the rear yard.

Mr. Lethbridge explained that the ordinance states that the rear yard area is measured from
the closest point of the home to the rear property line. The challenge is that there are several
different interpretations. It is also a very challenging measurement for most people to make.
There is some inequity involved. Staff discussed with the Council how to address that and
proposed that it be a maximum of 10% of the total lot area. It was suggested that the
calculation exclude private alleys.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Russell moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of the Zone Text Change for Accessory Buildings, amending Sections 18,225.030 and
18.225.040, as sown on the attached documents with the added verbiage that a private
lane be excluded from the lot square footage. Commissioner Lefgren seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.     DECISION ITEMS.

       a.     AMENDED SITE PLAN, TONY SKANCHY IS PROPOSING AMENDMENTS
              TO ITS ACCESSORY STRUCTURE ORDINANCE ADDRESSING SQUARE
              FOOTAGE REQUIREMENTS.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that South Hills Dental is located off of 13400 South immediately
west of Bangerter Highway. The applicants are proposing to amend the east side of the site
to enclose the garage area and add a small storage area. A new entrance was to be added
onto the front and the curbing and landscaping along the roadway were to be replaced. The
applicants recalculated the parking needs based on the new space and have sufficient
parking. The same building architecture would continue into the addition. Staff
recommended approval with the conditions set forth in the staff report.

Commissioner Hansen moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the amended
site plan for South Hills Dental, located at 4013 West 13400 South, as shown on the
accompanying plans with the following conditions:

       1.     The building materials shall be compliant with the approved plans.

       2.     Areas designated or described as “storage” shall not be utilized for any
              other purpose.
