                 RIVERTON CITY ATTORNEY MEMORANDUM


TO:          Mayor Staggs, David Brickey, Riverton City Council, City Recorder
FROM:        Ryan Carter
DATE:        January 18, 2022
SUBJECT:     Annual training requirement under the Utah Open Public Meetings Act.




                                         I. Introduction.

      Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-104, the governing body of Riverton City is required to
  undergo annual training to remain familiar with the requirements of the Utah Open Public
  Meetings Act. Typically, this training is provided by the City Attorney’s office. Compliance
  with this law is monitored by the City’s auditors on an annual basis. Training is also a matter of
  personal importance to the Utah State Auditor’s office; so much so, that the State Auditor has
  taken on the burden of supplying a training program for local governments to utilize in fulfillment
  of the law. The training is available online, features a format which is easily followed and
  produces a Certificate of Completion (see attached), which elected officials may produce and
  deliver to the City Recorder’s office for record keeping. This office has reviewed the training
  program and finds it to be acceptable. We therefore recommend this approach to comply with
  annual training requirements under the Utah Open Public Meeting Act.

                                            II. Training

      The Utah State Auditor has created a website which hosts training programs for a variety of
  statutes, found here: https://resources.auditor.utah.gov/s/article/Training-All . Once you have
  arrived at this web address, look for the Open Public Meetings Act Training, and click on the link
  found in the sentence which states the following, “Additional Note: Our office provides a brief
  OPMA course at http://training.auditor.utah.gov/, as a courtesy and for convenience, if the entity
  deems it sufficient. The course takes approximately 10 minutes to complete.” The latter link will
  take you to an online training portal, which includes Open Public Meetings Act training. Click on
  the “enroll for free” button and follow the steps to complete the training. You will be required to:

                                                 1
              Create your own “account” featuring a login/password and the local government entity
               you represent.
              Follow the steps necessary to watch a training video which takes approximately 10
               minutes.
              Answer a 5 question quiz following the video which requires 80% of the answer to be
               correct in order to pass the same.
              Once you have filled out the quiz and receive a passing score you will answer a brief
               survey where you can provide feedback related to your experience.
              Lastly, you can obtain your certificate. It may be downloaded or printed. I
               recommend you download the certificate so it can be emailed to the City Recorder.

The City Recorder’s office looks forward to receiving your certificate, either in printed or emailed
form, over the next 30 days. This isn’t a difficult exercise to accomplish and takes less time to
complete than we typically spend when we handle training in-house. A final point is completing
training provided by the State Auditor’s office is the surest way to guard against any claim that the
training otherwise provided is inadequate in the eyes of John McDougal. We therefore recommend
completion of the annual training requirements for the Utah Open Public Meetings Act in the manner
described in this memorandum.




                                                  2
