h




                  Attention Riverton City Neighbors!
    Things have changed dramatically over the years in truck
    manufacturing so it is no longer necessary to idle trucks in
    the morning for more than the recommended 3 minutes.
    Early trucks ( 1930's) had inherent problems. The engine design made for poor
    starting. The oils were thick and heavy, the fuel tended to gel making the engines
    hard to start, especially in cold weather. The fuel quality was not as good and was
    not regulated like it is today.

    Over the years fuel engines and technology have improved tremendously, but for
    some reason the old habit of leaving the engine running has stayed with us.


    Myth: Truck engines need to warm up and idle for 5 to 10 minutes or more
    especially on cold days before driving them.

    Fact: This is one of the most common myths about truck engines. Most engine
    manufacturers recommend that newer engines idle for no more than 3 minutes
    before driving.



    Gelling of diesel fuel used to be a problem. Refiners have resolved this problem by
    making winter blends that work better in colder weather. We also have additives that
    can be put in the fuel during extreme low temperatures.

    Letting an engine idle actually does more damage to the engine than starting and stop-
    ping. Running an engine at idle causes twice the wear on internal parts corn- pared to
    driving at highway speeds. Idling will increase maintenance cost and shorten the life of
    the engine.



    Myth: Engine idling does not waste much fuel.
    Fact: Fuel is one of the largest operating expenses in our industry. Idling adversely
    impacts us by increasing fuel and maintenance expenses. One hour of idling time
    in a pickup consumes about one gallon of fuel. The larger the engine the more fuel
    consumed. A gallon of diesel costs over 53. 20 per gallon now and is expected to
    climb this year. With the number of pickups, heavy trucks and equipment we oper-
    ate, the cost of idling adds up quickly.

       Thank you for protecting the air your neighbors breath each day.

              Special Private Council      on Air
                                                    Quality in Riverton City
