Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
February 12, 2026


Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Marzo, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that
no written or telephone comments were received. The adjacent property owners also did
not comment on the previous application.

Commissioner Beck moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-25-4012, “Baird Rezone,” amending the General
Plan Designation to High Density Residential and Rezoning the subject properties
to RM-8-SD for the approximately 0.71-acres located at 1758 and 1742 West 11800
South with the following Specific Development (SD) Designations:

       1.     The development shall be limited to ‘townhomes’ only.

Commissioner Marzo seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       E.     "QUINN REZONE, GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT," PLZ-25-4010, AN
              APPLICATION TO REZONE APPROXIMATELY .97-ACRES LOCATED
              AT 1980 WEST 13400 SOUTH FROM R-3 (SINGLE-FAMILY
              RESIDENTIAL   14,000-SF  LOTS)   TO   R-4 (SINGLE-FAMILY
              RESIDENTIAL 10,000-SF LOTS), AND TO AMEND THE GENERAL
              PLAN FROM ESTATE-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL TO MEDIUM-DENSITY
              RESIDENTIAL. APPLICANT - DALLIS QUINN

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and indicated that the subject property is in
southern Riverton on 13400 South near 2200 West. Aerial, Zoning, and General Plan
maps were reviewed. Adjacent properties are zoned RR-22, R-3 and R-4, and
approximately 25% of the subject property is already zoned R-4. The applicant’s request
was to change the General Plan designation to Medium-Density Residential and rezone
the entire property to R-4. R-3 and R-4 are compatible zones that only require vinyl
fencing separating the zones.

Commissioner Cannon asked if a conceptual plan had been submitted. Mr. Prestwich
stated that the property owner had not provided one. The R-3 Zone would require
irregular property lines, and R-4 would allow more uniform lots with a private lane down
the middle or to the side. To fit four lots on the property, the road would need to be
included in the square footage of one or more lots.

The applicant, Dallis Quinn reported that he purchased the property in 2020 with the
intention of renovating it. He and his parents live in the existing house, and he would like
to rezone and subdivide the lot so his parents can stay in the home and he can build on
the rear portion of the lot. In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, he
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     9
February 12, 2026


stated that his intention is to build a private lane and one home, but he wants to leave his
options open.

Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing.

Greg Knight stated that he lives adjacent to the subject property. When the frontage lots
on 13400 South were developed, they were zoned R-3. When the road was widened, the
frontage of two lots was purchased and their square footage reduced to 0.25 acres.
Neighbors were not notified of that change. He was concerned that building on the front
portion of the subject property could cause issues with traffic, parking, and density.

Cindy Lloyd stated that she lives south of the subject property and is concerned about
traffic, driveway locations, and parking. She is a cyclist, and her eastern neighbor parks
in a way that blocks the bike lane. The more people that live on the subject property, the
more cars there will be. There could be up to four cars per home. She already has trouble
getting out of her driveway. She saw no reason to change the zone and asked that the
application be denied.

Craig Bird stated that he lives in the notification zone and is concerned that decreasing
the setbacks will cause sightline issues when adjacent property owners like Mr. Knight
back out of their driveways. If residents park in the bike lane, that can be very dangerous
as it will force cyclists to use the travel lane. He believes that allowing so many homes
will create parking problems, which will affect garbage pickup and snow removal. The
area was already rezoned from 0.50-acre to 0.33-acre lots, and he does not want the lot
size to decrease further.

Jeff Quinn stated that he lives on the subject property. He did not agree with the previous
comments. 13400 South is a busy road, and whether there are two or three homes on
the property will not affect traffic. The properties are spaced far enough apart that visibility
will not be affected. Neighbors have had to back out of their driveways for many years
and how they do so will not change. He did not believe the concerns expressed by his
neighbors were valid barriers to the request.

Randy Christensen stated that he lives adjacent to the subject property. It is hard to get
out of his driveway, especially in the morning, or to access Redwood Road. He moved
into his home 50 years ago when all the lots were 0.50 acres. He moved to Riverton for
the country, not for townhouses, and he was against rezoning the property.

Tyler Draney stated that he lives near the subject property, and the Quinns are great
neighbors. However, he is concerned about allowing a house on the frontage or at the
rear near his fence. He can see both sides of the issue.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  10
February 12, 2026


In response to a question raised by Commissioner Marzo, Mr. Prestwich reported that the
property is 0.97 acres and currently zoned R-3 and R-4. The parcel’s geography would
dictate exactly how many homes could actually be built on the property, but the current
zoning would allow up to three lots and the R-4 Zone would allow for up to four lots. The
location of the existing home may also limit development. R-3 and R-4 have identical
setback requirements, but R-4 has a 10,000-square-foot minimum lot size and smaller
frontage requirement.

Commissioner Cannon stated that he is typically in favor of private lanes but was
struggling with this application due to the number of houses that could be built on the
property. He believes a fully improved street and sidewalk should be required for four
houses, and this would be too many houses on such a small lot. Vice-Chair Beck agreed.

Commissioner Matheson stated that the Planning Commission has considered many
requests that do not fit with the area, but in this situation rezoning the property would only
create the possibility of having one more home. He is a cyclist and empathizes with Ms.
Lloyd. However, if the property were rezoned and a private lane was built, cars from the
two additional homes would exit the private lane facing forward, not backing out. He does
not believe approval would have a significant negative impact on residents of the area.
He is also biased by the fact that his own children cannot find a place to live. The City
needs more housing that ideally does not disrupt the neighborhood. Of the applications
the Commission had reviewed recently, he believes this request would cause the least
disruption. He was in favor of recommending approval. The applicant could then
determine how many houses will fit on the property.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL
of Application PLZ-25-4010, “Quinn Rezone,” for changing the General Plan
Designation and Rezoning thus keeping the current General Plan Designations and
current Zoning (RR-22). Commissioner Marzo seconded the motion. Vote on
Motion: Commissioner Beck – Aye, Commissioner Cannon – Aye, Commissioner
Keele – Aye, Commissioner Marzo – Aye, Commissioner Matheson – Nay. The
motion passed 4-to-1.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

       A.     "MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 29," PLZ-25-8020, AN APPLICATION FOR
              A FINAL/DETAIL PLAN FOR 33 RESIDENTIAL UNITS ON
              APPROXIMATELY 7.04-ACRES LOCATED NEAR 13670 SOUTH 4395
              WEST. APPLICANT - BRANDON PARR, EDGE HOMES.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and indicated that the subject property is in the
southwest portion of Riverton in the Suburban Land Reserve Special Development
District (“SLR SDD”), which was adopted in 2015. Multiple projects have been completed
under the associated Development Agreement, and Edge Homes has master site plans
in process for the remaining acreage.
