                            MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            October 5, 2021
Subject:         21-25, Proposed General Plan Amendment and Rezone of 2.0 area located
                 at 12984 South Sunday Drive, from Current Designation of Low Density
                 Residential and RR-22 Zone to Medium Density Residential and R-4 Zone,
                 allowing ¼ acre lots, Application submitted by John Henrie.


On September 9, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this
proposed General Plan amendment and rezone application. Minutes from that meeting are
included below. The Planning Commission recommended approval of the rezone at R-3,
rather than the proposed R-4 zoning. The Commission recommended the following
motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 21-25, denying the requested General Plan
Amendment and Rezone to R-4 of 2.0-acres of land located at 12984 South Sunday Drive, but
rezoning the property to R-3 (14,000-sf minimum lots), consistent with the current General Plan
Designation of “Low Density Residential”, as shown on Exhibit “A”


Background

This is a public hearing for an application to amend the General Plan designation and Rezone
2.0-acres of land located at 12984 South Sunday Drive. The property is wide and narrow with
frontage on both Sunday Drive and 4570 West. It’s south border is shared with the SLR
property known as CPA-1 which was recently approved as a housing project known as The
Park at Mountain View Village.

The property is currently zoned RR-22, which is a single family residential zone with animal
rights. Most of the properties between Sunday Drive and 4570 West north of the SLR property
north to Dutchman Drive is similarly zoned except for two properties which were recently
rezoned to R-3 and R-2.

The current General Plan Designation for the property and area is “Low Density Residential”
which was set with the August 2020 General Plan Amendment with the expectation that this
area would be rezoned to a zone that corresponds to the Low Density Residential such as R-3
(14,000-sf lots) or R-2 (19,000-sf lots).
Report by: TJP
9/30/2021
The Planning Commission, in their review of this application during a public hearing, voted to
recommend denial of the proposed amendment to the General Plan, leaving the property at the
current designation of “Low Density Residential”, and rezoning the property to R-3, consistent
with that General Plan designation, rather than the R-4 Zone as requested by the applicant.
Staff concurs with that recommendation, as is both consistent with the current General Plan and
with the surrounding properties.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1.     Application
          2.     Area General Plan
          3.     Area Zoning
          4.     Proposed Zoning
          5.     Minutes from Planning Commission Action




Report by: TJP
9/30/2021
Area General Plan
Current General Plan Designation:
Low Density Residential

Requested General Plan Designation:




                                                                                        Bangerter Highway
                                          Mtn View Highway
Medium Density Residential




                                                             4570 West



                                                                         Sunday Drive
                                      13400 South
rivertonutah.gov
Area Zoning
Current Zoning:
RR-22 (Residential – 21,780-sf lots)

Requested Zoning:
R-4 (Single-family Residential – 4 units
per acre or 10,000-sf detached lots)




                                                                        Bangerter Hwy
                                           Mtn View Hwy
                                                          13400 South
rivertonutah.gov
General Plan and Zoning Map




                        R-1, RR-22
                        R-1, RR-22, R-2, R-3
                        R-1, RR-22, R-2, R-3, R-4
                        RM-6, RM-8
rivertonutah.gov        RM-8, RM-14, RM-18
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              5
September 9, 2021

Commissioner Cannon moved to amend his motion and recommend APPROVAL of
PLZ-21-2028 “Smart Private Lane” located at 1602 West 13595 South with the
following conditions:

      1.     Approval is for a private lane to access one (1) existing lot.

      2.     Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private
             lanes.

      3.     Private lane shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide paved in either asphalt
             or concrete according to the standards of the Unified Fire Authority and
             Riverton City Standards and Specifications.

      4.     Prior to any building permit being issued for the property, the applicant
             shall submit the following for Staff approval:

             a.     A development site plan showing the lane and utilities.

             b.     A lot-line adjustment, boundary line agreement, or other
                    instruments resulting in adjusted lots that do not increase any
                    non-conforming condition on the property and meets the
                    minimum requirements for the zone where possible and does not
                    result in the creation of any new lots.

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      C.     REZONE – “HENRIE REZONE” GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT AND
             REZONE FOR 2.0 ACRES LOCATED AT 12984 SOUTH SUNDAY DRIVE.
             APPLICANT, JOHN HENRIE.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the above request is for a General
Plan Amendment and Rezone of two acres of property located at 12984 South Sunday
Drive. Residents within 1,000 feet were noticed. The property within is zoned R-22 with a
few exceptions for R-2 and R-3. The proposed property has frontage on both roads sharing
950 feet with the SLR project that was approved at a previous meeting. Mr. Prestwich stated
that the request is for an R-4 General Plan designation, medium-density residential which
corresponds with the 10,000 square foot lots. Sample motions were reviewed. He
confirmed that the frontage width on Sunday Drive is 128 feet.

Commissioner Lefgren asked for an update regarding the previously approved SLR project
for the parcel to the south and the portion to be vacated and converted into a walkway.
Mr. Prestwich explained that the City Council decided to close Sunday Drive. There was no
follow-through to vacate the property and anything additional would require further action
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   6
September 9, 2021

from the City. Plans from the project to the south depict the connection of a walkway to the
street.

Christy Dutson reported that she lives on Sunday Drive and what is proposed will greatly
impact her property. She participates in numerous community activities and opens her farm
up to the City for therapeutic reasons. She appreciates being able to live in Riverton and
have her own farm. The last owner of the property in question promised to sell it to her and
because of that promise they are in the process of selling their two rental properties to
purchase it. She recognized the desire to build multiple homes on the property but was sad
to see the farmland being sold. She expressed concern with them eventually being forced
out due to opposition from the adjacent neighbors regarding their animals.

Commissioner Lefgren sympathized with Ms. Dutson and changes taking place in the City.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Lefgren moved to recommend DENIAL of the requested General Plan
Amendment and Rezone to R-4 of two acres of land located at 12984 South Sunday
Drive and recommend APPROVAL of the rezone of the property to R-3 (14,000 square-
foot lots) consistent with the current General Plan designation of “Low-Density
Residential”. Commissioner Brown seconded the motion. The motion passed with
the unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.       DECISION ITEMS

         A.     FINDINGS OF FACT – MCDOUGAL CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.

Mr. Carter reported that as Riverton City Attorney he got involved mid-stream on the
McDougal Conditional Use Permit application. He received a Notice of Appeal from
Mr. McDougal that is pending before the Board of Adjustment. He presented a document
detailing the reasoning behind the denial of the Conditional Use Permit. The record includes
a transcript of what was said by each individual at the meeting. After reading it, he believed
the applicant will always bear the burden of persuasion on deciding whether the criteria for
a private lane have been met. There has not been enough information before the Planning
Commission to justify the private lane under the circumstances of this case. He explained
that when private lanes are considered, the three criteria include the following:

        The property is a lot of record that is pre-existing and has no frontage or adequate
         property to construct a public street or it can be demonstrated that the property cannot
         be physically subdivided with the public street.

        The development on the private lane would not impede the extension of any adjacent
         public right-of-way now or in the foreseeable future.

        The development does not impede the necessary access from the adjoining
         properties as required by the Master Transportation Plan.
