Recording Requested By And
When Recorded Mail To:

Riverton City Recorder
3323 W Sanborn Drive
Riverton, UT 84065

                                     TRAIL AGREEMENT
       This TRAIL AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is made this _______ day of
____________________, 2024, by and between Welby Jacob Water Users Company, a Utah
Non-Profit Corporation (“Grantor”), and Riverton City, a Utah Municipal Corporation in Salt
Lake County (“Grantee”)(together, “Parties”).
                                           RECITALS
       A.      Grantor either holds fee title to property depicted in Exhibits 1-6 (the “Property”)
to access, operate, monitor, maintain, and repair its Welby Canal (“Canal”). The Property is
essential to Grantor’s operation of its Canal to deliver water to its shareholders.
       B.      Grantee is a public agency desiring to provide recreational sites, facilities and
programs in and around Riverton City.
       C.      Grantee wishes to use part of the Property for a public recreation trail.
       D.      Grantor agrees to allow Grantee to use the Property for the benefit of public
recreation and enjoyment, subject to the terms and conditions contained herein.
                                         AGREEMENT
       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the Recitals set forth above, for the mutual
benefits which will accrue to the Parties hereto, and for other good and valuable consideration,
the receipt, adequacy, and legal sufficiency of which the Parties hereby acknowledge, the Parties,
agree as follows:
       1.      Encroachment. Grantor hereby grants Grantee a right to encroach upon the
Property to construct a trail for only the purposes stated in Sections 14a and 14b. The legal
description of the permitted encroachment area is described in Exhibit 7 and diagrammed in
Exhibits 1-6 attached hereto and incorporated herein (“Trail Area”) and specifically referred to
in Exhibits 1 and 2 as the “Proposed Welby Jacob Canal Trail.”




                                                 1
               a.        Trail Area Description for the Welby Canal Trail. The Trail Area shall
never be greater than the width specified in Exhibits 1-6, the trail portion of the Trail Area, being
limited to ten (10) feet wide and the remainder for trail maintenance purposes.
               b.        Costs Associated with Trail Area. Grantee shall pay all costs associated
with Trail Area including: (i) applying for, receiving, and maintaining any necessary county,
state of federal approvals required with respect to the development, construction of trails, use or
improvement of the Trail Area; (ii) constructing, maintaining, repairing and improving trails on
said Trail Area for ingress and egress by the public, or contracting for such services; (iii)
maintaining liability insurance covering the Trail Area in commercially reasonable amounts of
liability limits; and (iv) complying with all applicable county, state or federal laws and
regulations.
               c.        Costs Associated with Reconstructing the Welby Canal Trail. Grantor, at
its option, may pipe the Canal near the Welby Canal Trail and Trail Area. Grantor does not
assume any liability for the destruction of the Welby Canal Trail and Trail Area that may occur
as part of the piping process. Grantee is responsible for all costs associated with the
reconstruction of the Welby Canal Trail and Trail Area (see Section 1(b)). All sections of the
Agreement also apply to reconstruction should Grantor elect to pipe the Canal.
       2.      Restrictions on Use of Trail Area. The following constitute restrictions on the
use of the Trail Area:
               a.        No motorized vehicles shall be used in the Trail Area except for (1)
Grantee’s vehicles for trail inspection, construction, maintenance, repair, and cleaning purposes;
(2) Grantor’s vehicles for Canal maintenance; (3) law enforcement; and (4) fire
prevention/suppression.
               b.        All use of the Trail Area by the public or Grantee’s employees or agents
shall be restricted to the hours between sunrise and 10:00 PM of each day, or as otherwise
negotiated by the Parties in writing;
               c.        No firearms of any kind shall be in the Trail Area, with the exception of
law enforcement;
               d.        No hunting shall be allowed in or from the Trail Area;




                                                 2
               e.      Grantee shall post signs at regular intervals clearly delineating the Trail
Area boundaries and “through trail” directions at breaks in the trails to discourage Trail Area
users from leaving the Trail Area and entering private property and the Canal;
               f.      Grantee may not construct any permanent structures in the Trail Area.
Grantee may only install landscaping that does not impair Grantor’s ability to access, operate,
monitor, maintain, and repair its Canal. Grantor may remove any landscaping necessary to
access, operate, monitor, maintain, and repair its Canal without liability or permission; and
               g.      No work Grantee does pursuant to this Agreement will reduce the amount
of freeboard in Grantor’s Canal or otherwise reduce its carrying capacity.
       3.      Defective Conditions. In the event the Grantor’s engineers reasonably believe that
any Trail Area improvements are being constructed in a manner that is defective, potentially
dangerous to the public or adjacent property owners or will potentially adversely affect Grantor’s
Canal or other Grantor property and/or Grantor’s inspection, operation or maintenance of the
Canal, Grantee agrees to correct any such defective of potentially dangerous condition at
Grantee’s cost after Grantor notifies it. Grantor also may, at any time after construction of the
Welby Canal Trail, give notice of and request that Grantee investigate and make reasonable and
necessary modifications to cure or prevent adverse, defective, or potentially dangerous
conditions with respect to the Canal and/or the Trail Area. In the event Grantee fails or refuses
to make the necessary corrections or modifications within a reasonable time, Grantor may
suspend construction of such improvements and may suspend the use of the Trail Area until such
conditions are corrected or modifications are made. In the event of defective conditions that
Grantor reasonably believes constitute an eminent threat to the public or adjacent property
owners or will potentially adversely affect the Canal or other Grantor property, and Grantee
cannot or does not mobilize to correct such defective conditions in time to address such eminent
threat, Grantor may take action to correct such defective conditions and Grantee shall reimburse
Grantor the costs reasonably incurred to correct the defective conditions.
       4.      Liens. The rights granted under this Agreement shall not include the right to make
any improvements for or on behalf of Grantor upon which any lien interests against the Grantor’s
Canal or Canal easement may be based. Grantee shall not have any right, power or authority to
grant, allow or suffer any lien or other charge or encumbrance against the Canal, the Canal
easement or any other property, right or interest of Grantor.


                                                3
       5.      Limitation of Liability. Grantor and Grantee shall receive all the benefits,
protections and defenses afforded them by the Utah Limitation of Landowner Liability Act as
set forth in Title 57, Chapter 14, Title 63G, Chapter 7, and Title 73, Chapter 1 of the Utah Code,
as amended. Grantor shall have the same level of immunity from suit as Grantee in connection
with or resulting from use of the Trail Area.
       6.      General Plan. Grantee shall designate the Trail Area in its General Plan.
       7.      Termination. Grantor, at its option, may terminate this Agreement if Grantee fails
to begin construction of the project within two (2) years of the date this Agreement is signed by
both parties. Upon a good faith determination by the Grantor’s Board of Directors that there has
been a material failure of Grantee to strictly comply with the terms of this Agreement, Grantor
may, at its option, terminate this Agreement after providing notice to Grantee and sixty days to
cure its non-compliance.
       8.      Design, Construction and Installation. Before construction of the Welby Canal
Trail, Grantee agrees to submit to Grantor plans, drawings and specifications of the project for
Grantor’s revisions and approval. If Grantor approves the plans, drawings, and specifications,
Grantee will construct the project in accordance with the approved plans, drawings, and
specifications, and the provisions of this Agreement, as determined by the Grantor. Grantee has
no right to make any other alterations or changes to the Grantor’s Canal or properties. Grantee
must obtain the written approval of Grantor to deviate from the approved plans, drawings and
specifications. Once Grantee has finalized its construction, Grantor may inspect the constructed
Welby Canal Trail to ensure it was constructed consistent with the approved plans, drawings,
and specifications. Grantee will make any repairs Grantor identifies are needed to conform the
constructed Welby Canal Trail to the plans, drawings, and specifications.
       9.      Rights Reserved; Grantor’s Continued Operation of its Canal. Grantor reserves
all of its rights necessary to continue operating and maintaining its Canal and facilities. This
Agreement and any other interest Grantee or the public acquire by this Agreement, is subordinate
and subject to the rights of the Grantor to use, operate, inspect, repair, replace, and maintain its
Canal and related facilities. Grantor reserves the right to allow others to encroach upon the Trail
Area to construct facilities that do not interfere with Grantee’s project. Grantee’s construction in
the Trail Area authorized under this Agreement shall not in any manner whatsoever interfere



                                                 4
with the Grantor’s use, operation, maintenance, replacement, and repair of its Canal and related
facilities.
        10.    Hold Harmless-Indemnification.
               a.      Grantor does not assume any liability resulting from this Agreement or
the exercise thereof by Grantee, or as a result of the design, construction, use or maintenance of
the project Grantee constructs.
               b.      Grantee and all of Grantee’s officers, directors, employees, agents and
contractors shall indemnify, defend and hold Grantor and all of its respective officials, board
members, officers, managers, agents, and employees harmless from any and all expense, loss,
liability, injury, damage, or any other claim (whether meritorious or not), including attorney fees,
to any persons or property that may result from, or is claimed to result from, in whole or in part:
               (1) Any act, error, or omission or fault of Grantee in exercising any of the
               privileges herein conferred;
               (2) Grantee’s or the public’s use the Trail Area;
               (3) The terms and performance of this Agreement including the planning,
               engineering, construction, use, operation or maintenance of the Trail Area,
               including the authorized or unauthorized use of the Canal and the Trail Area by
               Grantee, any third party, or members of the public.
               (4) Any damages to the Canal or any other property or facilities of Grantor located
               on the Trail Area as the result of Grantee’s construction, use (including public
               use), operation or maintenance of the Trail Area.
               (5) Any reasonable use and exercise of the rights of Grantor in inspecting,
               operating, cleaning, maintaining or repairing the Canal within the Trail Area
               including, but not limited to, injuries or damages to third parties or members of
               the public and damages to improvements to the Trail Area resulting from
               Grantor’s activities.
               c.      Grantee shall defend the Grantor from and against any action challenging
Grantee’s use of the land subject to this Agreement.
               d.      Grantee shall defend Grantor from any water delivery interruptions
caused by construction, use (including public use), operation or maintenance of the Trail Area.



                                                 5
                 e.     Grantee shall not interfere with Grantor’s operation, maintenance and
repair of the Grantor’s Canal. As determined by Grantor, Grantee shall be strictly responsible
for any damage to, obstruction of, or interference with the use, operation, maintenance, repair,
or replacement of the Canal or related facilities cause in whole or in part by Grantee or any
design, construction, operation, use (including public use), repair or replacement the project to
be constructed by Grantee. Grantee agrees that if the access, operation, maintenance or repair
of Grantor’s Canal is made more expensive by reason of this Agreement or the Trail Area,
Grantee will reimburse the Grantor the full amount of such additional expenses within 30 days
of receipt of an itemized bill.
        11.      Limitation on Liability of Third Parties. The above indemnity provisions extend
only between Grantee and the Grantor. This Agreement is not intended nor does it provide that
these duties are owed to any other entity or person. It is the intent of the Parties and this
Agreement that the use of the Trail Area by third parties and members of the public be upon the
terms and conditions of the Utah Limitation of Landowner Liability Act (Utah Code Ann. §§57-
14-1 et seq.)(“Act”) and it is the intent of the Parties and the purpose of this Agreement that the
Grantor and Grantee be covered by and maintain the protection afforded by the Act. However,
should a court determine that the Grantor is not covered by the protection of the Act, Grantee
shall indemnify Grantor from claims by third parties and members of the public as provided in
Section 10. Grantor will indemnify Grantee in any action as provided in Section 10, even if
Grantor successfully asserts protection from liability under the above Act.
        12.      Insurance.
                 a.     For as long as this Agreement remains in place and the Trail Area is used
by third parties and members of the public, Grantee shall maintain at its own expense its existing
general liability insurance policy in the amount of $2,000,000 or reasonably equivalent insurance
reasonably approved as to form by Grantor. Grantee will periodically review its insurance to
assure that it remains comparable to insurance carried by other cities of comparable size and
circumstances. Grantor shall be named as an additional insured under such insurance for claims
of persons other than the insureds relating to or arising out of the authorized or unauthorized use
of the Trail Area or Canal pursuant to this Agreement. The amount of insurance provided
pursuant to this Section 12 shall not limit Grantee's obligation to indemnify Grantor as set forth
in Section 10.


                                                6
               b.        At any time, Grantor may refuse to allow any use of the Trail Area until
Grantee provides evidence of the existence of the insurance required by Section 12.
       13.     Maintenance. Grantor will maintain its Canal. Grantee shall repair, maintain, and
inspect the Trail Area and keep it in good repair so that it does not impair or threaten the operation
or safety of Grantor’s Canal and does not threaten Grantor’s ability to maintain the Canal, all as
determined by Grantor. Grantee will perform any maintenance and repair any disrepair or wear
of Trail Area that affects or threatens operation of Grantor’s Canal or Grantor’s ability to
maintain the Canal, as determined by Grantor. The maintenance and repair of the Trail Area shall
be the sole responsibility of Grantee. If Grantee does not adequately maintain the Trail Area, as
determined by Grantor, Grantor may perform such maintenance and Grantee will reimburse the
Grantor the full amount of such maintenance within 30 days of receipt of an itemized bill.
       14.     Use and Maintenance of the Trail Area. The public shall only be allowed to use
the Trail Area. Such use and the maintenance and repair of the Trail Area by or for Grantee and
the public shall be in accordance with the following conditions:
               a.        Use by Public for Recreation. The use of the Trail Area by the public shall
 be without charge and shall be for recreational uses as contemplated by and upon the terms and
 conditions of the Utah Limitation of Landowner Liability Act (Utah Code Ann. §§57-14-1 et
 seq.), limited by Sections 2 and 14 of this Agreement. It is the intent of the Parties and the
 purpose of this Agreement that the Grantor and Grantee be covered by and maintain the
 protection afforded by the Act.
               b.        Authorized Uses of Trail Area. Authorized uses of the Trail Area shall be
 limited to walking, jogging, riding bicycles, or other human-powered vehicles or devices, and
 horseback riding. Swimming, wading and any other activities within the channel of the Canal
 are not authorized and are expressly prohibited. Motorized wheelchairs are permissible.
               c.        Grantee’s Obligations. In order to ensure that the permitted public use of
 the Trail Area meets the conditions herein provided and does not interfere with Grantor’s
 operation, maintenance, cleaning and repair of the Canal, Grantee shall:
                    i.   Prevent unauthorized access by motorized vehicles, except as provided in
Section 2. Grantor may require Grantee to install removable or accessible obstructions or barriers
to Welby Canal Trail access along the Trail Area as approved by Grantor. Grantor may also
require Grantee to install approved obstructions or barriers to use of the portions of the Trail


                                                  7
Area that have not been improved as the Trail Area so as to limit access to such undeveloped
portions abutting the Trail Area as Grantor may from time to time reasonably request. Grantee
shall provide Grantor keys to locks or other means of access through any obstructions or barriers
installed by or on behalf of Grantee in compliance with the provisions of this Section 14;
                 ii.   Prepare and install readily visible signs at entrances to the Trail Area and
at other appropriate locations along the Trail Area advising the public:
                       a. that the Trail Area is located within Grantor’s easement with Grantor’s
                          consent;
                       b. that the public’s use of the Trail Area is subject to Grantor’s use for the
                          inspection, operation, cleaning, maintenance, and repair of the Canal;
                       c. that users of the Trail Area must yield to Grantor’s vehicles and
                          personnel engaged in Grantor’s activities and that the Trail Area may
                          be closed from time to time by Grantor for its purposes;
                       d. that public use of motorized vehicles or equipment is prohibited and
                          that the unauthorized uses set out in Section 2 are prohibited;
                       e. of any Riverton City ordinances which apply to the use of the Trail
                          Area including limitations as to the hours of use of the Trail Area and
                          Grantee’s anti-littering rules;
                       f. that the public is not allowed to access any portions of the Trail Area
                          that are outside the improved Trail Area; and
                       g. that Grantor may suspend use of the Trail Area for violations of these
                          rules;
                iii.   Provide waste receptacles and take other reasonable actions within its
authority to prevent litter, trash or other material from being deposited or gathering in the Trail
Area and the Canal;
                iv.    Take appropriate action and exercise reasonable efforts to:
                       a. protect the safety of the members of the public who use the Trail Area;
                       b. ensure that members of the public who use the Trail Area comply with
                           the terms of this Agreement;
                       c. prevent interference with Grantor’s operation, cleaning, maintenance
                           and repair of the Canal; and


                                                  8
                         d. prevent the public from swimming, wading, boating or conducting
                            other activities within the Canal or conduct other unauthorized
                            activities within the Trail Area; and
                 v.      Maintain, operate, repair and clean the Trail Area in a good, safe, and
sanitary condition in compliance with this Agreement, Grantee’s ordinances, and State law and
in a manner that will prevent any interference with Grantor’s use of the Trail Area for the
inspection, operation, cleaning, maintenance or repair of the Canal and interference with the flow
of water in the Canal.
       15.     City Code Violations. If Grantor notifies Grantee of any violation of Riverton
City that occurs in the Trail Area, Grantee will enforce said code and pursue the violation.
       16.     No Warranty. Grantor makes no warranty, express or implied, as to its title or
property interest to the Trail Area or as to the validity of any other rights granted under this
Agreement.
       17.     Not a Public Dedication. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to constitute
a gift or dedication of any of Grantor’s property or property interests to the general public or for
the benefit of the general public or for any public purpose whatsoever, and nothing contained in
this Agreement shall be deemed to provide that the Trail Area may be used for any purpose other
than as stated herein, it being the purpose of the Parties that this Agreement will be strictly
limited to and for the purposes expressed herein. The Parties shall from time to time take
whatever reasonable action it or they deem necessary to prevent any portion of Grantor’s
property, Canal, easement, or other Grantor facilities and improvements within the Trail Area
from being dedicated or taken for public use or benefit.
       18.     Grantor’s Costs and Fees. Grantee agrees to reimburse Grantor for its costs
incurred in approving, negotiating, and drafting this Agreement, including any attorney fees,
engineering fees, and employee costs.
       19.     Trail Area Shut Down. If Grantor deems it necessary, it may shut down the Trail
Area to perform necessary Canal inspection, maintenance, or repair or for violation of this
Agreement.




                                                 9
        20.      Miscellaneous Provisions.
                 a.      This Agreement, executed as of the date hereof, shall take effect only
upon, form and after its recording in the Office of the County Recorder of Salt Lake County,
Utah.
                 b.      In the event of any controversy, claim or dispute relating to this instrument
or the breach thereof, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover from the losing party court
costs, expenses and attorneys’ fees and costs.
                 c.      The easement and covenants contained herein are intended to run with the
land and automatically bind and inure to the benefit of the transferees and successors of each of
the Parties hereto.
                 d.      This Agreement represents the entire agreement of the Parties hereto, and
may be amended only by written instrument duly executed by the Parties hereto.
                 e.      This Agreement may be executed in identical counterparts.              If so
executed, each such counterpart shall be deemed an original for all purposes, and all such
counterparts shall collectively constitute one agreement.
                 f.      This Agreement shall be enforced and governed under the laws of the
State of Utah, and jurisdiction for any action based on this Agreement shall be with the District
Court of Salt Lake County, State of Utah.
                 g.      Figures 1 and 2 and Exhibits 1-3 attached are a part of this Agreement as
if fully set forth herein.
                 h.      Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to create any partnership,
joint venture, or fiduciary relationship between the Parties. It shall not create any third party
beneficiaries.
                 i.      This Agreement has been and shall be deemed to be a product of joint
drafting by the Parties and there shall be no presumption otherwise.
                 j.      Any party’s failure to enforce any provision of the Agreement shall not
constitute a waiver of the right to enforce such provision or any other provision, nor shall any
such waiver constitute a continuing waiver. The provisions of this Agreement may be waived
only in writing by the party intended to benefit by the provisions, and a waiver by a party of a
breach hereunder by the other Party shall not be construed as a waiver of any succeeding breach
of the same or other provisions.


                                                  10
                k.     If any portion of the Agreement is held to be unenforceable, the remaining
provisions hereof shall continue in full force and effect.
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the
date first appearing above.
GRANTOR:                                                 GRANTEE:
WELBY JACOB WATER USERS COMPANY                          RIVERTON CITY



By:                                             By:


Printed Name:                  _________        Printed Name:               ____________


Title:                                          Title:




                                                11
