                                    RIVERTON CITY
                              TRANSPORTATION IMPACT FEES
                              REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT


       THIS REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT is entered into this                        day of
       , 20       , by and between Riverton City, Utah Municipal Corporation (herein the “City”) and
Luke Peterson, of Peterson Farms.

                                         W I T N E S S E T H:

        WHEREAS, Riverton City is providing intersection improvements at 4000 W at 11800 S; and

        WHEREAS, Peterson Farms managed by the Luke Peterson is located adjacent to the project;
and
        WHEREAS, it was determined that it is in the best interest of both parties that work done on
Peterson Farms be completed by Luke Peterson; and

       WHEREAS, the City wishes to enter a cost to cure agreement with Luke Peterson to complete
the work on Peterson Farms; and

       WHEREAS, Luke Peterson has provided a breakdown of items of work that need to be
completed on Peterson Farms property and their associated cost; and

        WHEREAS, the City found the cost to be reasonable; and

         WHEREAS, the parties desire to enter into a Cost to Cure Agreement by which the City will
reimburse Luke Peterson for work completed on Peterson Farms that will help facilitate the improvements
for the 4000 W 11800 S intersection project;

        NOW THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants made herein the parties
hereby agree as follows:
                                    A G R E E M E N T:

1.   Work on Peterson Farms. Luke Peterson hereby acknowledges that the construction of the
     4000 W 11800 S intersection improvements are necessary for the safety of north to east
     turning movements at the intersection. Luke Peterson further expressly acknowledges that the
     City is willing to execute this Agreement to accommodate his desire to perform the work on
     Peterson Farms, knowing that it is necessary to provide adequate transportation
     improvements on 4000 W.

2.   Reimbursement. Riverton City will reimburse Luke Peterson as a cost to cure for the cost of
     equipment and labor to perform work on the Peterson Farms property to accommodate future
     roadway improvements. It is mutually understood that the City will provide and deliver the
     fill material and topsoil necessary to complete the project. The parties hereby acknowledge
     and agree that the total reimbursement payable to the Luke Peterson is $12,500. This sum
     represents the total cost of the work and materials as described in Exhibit A to this
     Agreement. The parties agree that the total reimbursement is calculated based upon a quote
     provided by Luke Peterson. Riverton City will also reimburse Luke Peterson for the cost of
     replacement fencing, based upon bids obtained by the City Purchasing department.

3.   No Accrual of Interest. The parties expressly agree that the total reimbursement to the Luke
     Peterson, as set forth in this Agreement, has not to the date of this Agreement, and shall not in
     the future accrue interest.

4.   Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties and
     expressly supercedes any prior agreements between the City and the Luke Peterson regarding
     the subject matter contained herein. No statement, promise or inducements made by either
     party or agents for either party, which are not contained in this written Agreement, shall be
     binding or valid. This Agreement may not be enlarged, modified, or altered, except in
     writing signed by both parties.

5.   Assignment. Luke Peterson’s right to receive reimbursement as set forth in this Agreement
     may be assigned to another person or entity by the written assignment of Luke Peterson and
     upon the delivery of written notice and a copy of the written assignment to the City. The
     written notice of assignment and the copy of the executed assignment shall be delivered to the
     Public Works Director and to the City Attorney’s Office.

6.   No Third Party Beneficiary. This Agreement is not intended to create, nor shall it be
     deemed to create, any right in any person or entity who is not a party to this Agreement and
     shall be construed in any respect to be a contract in whole or in part for the benefit of any
     third party.

7.   Severability. If any portion of this Agreement is declared invalid by a court of competent
     jurisdiction, the remaining portions shall not be effected thereby, but shall remain in full force
     and effect.




                                          Page 2 of 6
    8.     Governing Law. This Agreement shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the
           laws of the State of Utah.

    9.     No Joint Venture. This Agreement does not create, and shall not be construed to create, a
           joint venture by the parties and no separate government entity is established by this
           agreement.

    10.    Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall remain in force until such time as the Luke
           Peterson has received the reimbursement as set forth in paragraph 2 above. Also, the City
           may terminate this Agreement, at its sole discretion, if the Luke Peterson ceases operation or
           is no longer a legal entity, and Luke Peterson has not assigned its rights pursuant to paragraph
           5 of this Agreement.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement the day and year first above
    written.

                                                RIVERTON CITY




                                                Trent Staggs, Mayor



Attest:




Virginia Loader, City Recorder



                                                LUKE PETERSON

                                                Signature

                                                Signature Name                    Title




                                               Page 3 of 6
                                  NOTARY CERTIFICATION

COMPLETE ONLY IF APPLICANT IS AN INDIVIDUAL (delete this line, it is only indicating
the type of certificate)

State of                          )
                                  :ss
County of                         )

           On this       day of                  , 20             , personally appeared before me
                                  [name(s) of person(s)], whose identity is personally known to me or
proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person (s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to
this instrument, and acknowledge that he/she/they exceeded the same.




                                                 Notary Public

COMPLETE ONLY IF APPLICANT IS A CORPORATION (delete this line, it is only indicating
the type of certificate)

State of                          )
                                         :ss
County of                         )

           On this       day of                    , 20            , personally appeared before me
                                   [name(s) of person(s)], whose identity is personally known to me or
proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence, and who affirmed that he/she is the
                  [title] of                                                                [name of
corporation], a corporation, and that said document was signed by him/her in behalf of said corporation
by authority of its bylaws or of a Resolution of its Board of Directors, and he/she acknowledged to me
that said corporation executed the same.




                                                 Notary Public

COMPLETE ONLY IF APPLICANT IS A PARTNERSHIP (delete this line, it is only indicating
the type of certificate)

State of                          )
                                         :ss



                                                Page 4 of 6
County of                         )

           On this       day of                   , 20             , personally appeared before me
                                  [name(s) of person(s)], whose identity is personally known to me or
proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence, and who affirmed that he/she is the
                 [title], of                                                [name of partnership], a
partnership, and that the foregoing instrument was duly authorized by the partnership at a lawful meeting
held or by authority of its bylaws and signed in behalf of said partnership




                                                 Notary Public

COMPLETE ONLY IF APPLICANT IS A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY (delete this line, it
is only indicating the type of certificate)

State of                          )
                                         :ss
County of                         )

           On this       day of                  , 20             , personally appeared before me
                                  [name(s) of person(s)], whose identity is personally known to me or
proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence, and who affirmed that he/she is the
                [title], of                                                 [name of limited liability
company], a limited liability company, by authority of its members or its articles of organization, and
he/she acknowledged to me that said limited liability company executed the same.




                                                 Notary Public

COMPLETE ONLY IF APPLICANT IS A TRUST (delete this line, it is only indicating the type of
certificate)

State of                )
                                  :ss
County of               )

           On this       day of                  , 20             , personally appeared before me
                                  [name(s) of person(s)], whose identity is personally known to me or
proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence, and who affirmed that he/she is the trustee of
                        [name of trust] and that the foregoing instrument was signed in behalf of said
trust and he/she acknowledged to me that said trust executed the same.



                                                Page 5 of 6
 Notary Public




Page 6 of 6
