                              MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council

From:           Planning Department

Date:           May 5, 2020

Subject:        TEXT AMENDMENT, ADDING CHAPTER 2.150, ADMINISTRATIVE
                INTERPRETATIONS, TO THE RIVERTON CITY CODE, PROPOSED BY
                RIVERTON CITY


On April 23, 2020, the Planning Commission voted to recommend approval of this text
amendment. A record of motion is included below. The Planning Commission
recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #20-12, adding Chapter 2.150, Administrative
Interpretations, to the Riverton City Code, as shown on the attached exhibit.

Background

This is a public hearing for an amendment to the Riverton City Code proposed by Riverton City.
The proposed amendment adds a chapter to Title 2 of the Riverton City Code, in this case
Chapter 2.150, Administrative Interpretations.

This section formalizes a process that already occurs. City Staff frequently makes
interpretations of the Riverton City Code, and most typically that occurs through the Planning
Department. For example, the Table of Commercial Uses Chart includes a category for “Beauty
and Barber Services” but not a category specific to nail salons. When a nail salon contacts the
City seeking a business license for a particular location, the Department makes an interpretation
as to whether a nail salon would be considered “beauty and barber services”, rather than
forward this action to the Planning Commission and City Council. The authority to make such
administrative interpretations is already established in the Riverton City Code. However, a
formal procedure for issuing an interpretation, especially when requested by an applicant, does
not. The proposed amendment adds the Administrative Interpretations section to City Code,
and formalizes the process. This amendment initiated in our Legal Services Department.

The following items are attached:

          1. Proposed ordinance amendment, draft language.


Report by: JL
4/28/2020
                           Chapter 2.150
                 ADMINISTRATIVE INTERPRETATIONS
2.150.010: PURPOSE STATEMENT:
2.150.020: SCOPE OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORITY:
2.150.030: PERSONS ENTITLED TO SEEK INTERPRETATIONS:
2.150.040: PROCEDURES:
2.150.050: STANDARDS FOR USE INTERPRETATIONS:
2.150.060: EFFECT OF USE INTERPRETATIONS:
2.150.070: LIMITATIONS ON USE INTERPRETATIONS:

2.150.010: PURPOSE STATEMENT:


The interpretation authority established by this chapter is intended to recognize that the provisions of this title,
though detailed and extensive, cannot, as a practical matter, address every specific situation to which these
provisions may have to be applied. Many of these situations can be resolved or clarified by interpreting the
specific provisions of this title in light of the general and specific purposes for which those provisions were
enacted. This interpretation authority is administrative rather than legislative. It is intended only to allow
authoritative application of the provisions of this title to specific cases. It is not intended to add to or change
the essential content of this title.

2.150.020: SCOPE OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORITY:

The zoning administrator, subject to the procedures, standards and limitations of this chapter, may render
interpretations, including use interpretations, of the provisions of this title and of any rule or regulation issued
pursuant to it.

2.150.030: PERSONS ENTITLED TO SEEK INTERPRETATIONS:

Applications for interpretations may be filed only by a property owner having need for an interpretation or by
the property owner's authorized agent.

2.150.040: PROCEDURES:

A. Application: An application for an interpretation of this title shall be filed on a form provided by the zoning
    administrator and shall contain at least the following information:

    1. Provisions: The specific provision or provisions of this title for which an interpretation is sought;

    2. Facts: The facts of the specific situation giving rise to the request for an interpretation;

    3. Interpretation: The precise interpretation claimed by the applicant to be correct;

    4. Statement: When a use interpretation is sought, a statement of what use permitted under the current
       zoning classification of the property that the applicant claims either includes the proposed use, or is
       most similar to the proposed use; and

    5. Evidence: When a use interpretation is sought, documents, statements, and other evidence
       demonstrating that the proposed use will comply with all use limitations established for the district in
       which it is proposed to be located.
    6. Fees: Nonrefundable fees shown on the Riverton City fee schedule shall accompany the application.

B. Action On Application: The zoning administrator shall send the zoning administrator's written interpretation
    to the applicant stating any specific precedent or other reasons, or analysis upon which the determination is
    based.

C. Records: A record of decisions on all applications for interpretations of this title shall be kept on file in the
    office of the zoning administrator.

D. Appeal: Any person adversely affected by a final decision made by the zoning administrator interpreting a
    provision of this title may appeal to the appeals hearing officer in accordance with the provisions
    of Chapter 2.80 of this title.

2.150.050: STANDARDS FOR USE INTERPRETATIONS:

The following standards shall govern the zoning administrator, and the appeals hearing officer on appeals from
the zoning administrator, in issuing use interpretations:

A. Any use defined in Title 18 of this title, shall be interpreted as defined;

B. Any use specifically listed with a “NP” or without a "P" or "C" designated in Chapter 18.90, Table of
    Commercial Uses for a district, or so designated in Title 18, shall not be allowed in that zoning district;

C. No use interpretation shall allow a proposed use in a district unless evidence is presented demonstrating that
    the proposed use will comply with the development standards established for that particular district;

D. No use interpretation shall allow any use in a particular district unless such use is substantially similar to the
    uses allowed in that district and is more similar to such uses than to uses allowed in a less restrictive
    district;

E. If the proposed use is most similar to a conditional use authorized in the district in which it is proposed to be
     located, any use interpretation allowing such use shall require that it may be approved only as a
     conditional use pursuant to Chapter 18.195 of this title; and

F. No use interpretation shall permit the establishment of any use that would be inconsistent with the statement
    of purpose of that zoning district.

2.150.060: EFFECT OF USE INTERPRETATIONS:

A use interpretation finding a particular use to be a permitted use or a conditional use shall not authorize the
establishment of such use nor the development, construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any
building or structure. It shall merely authorize the preparation, filing, and processing of applications for any
approvals and permits that may be required by the codes and ordinances of the City including, but not limited
to, a zoning certificate, a building permit, a certificate of occupancy, subdivision approval, and site plan
approval.

2.150.070: LIMITATIONS ON USE INTERPRETATIONS:

A use interpretation finding a particular use to be a permitted use or a conditional use in a particular district
shall be deemed to authorize only that particular use in the district and such use interpretation shall not be
deemed to authorize any other allegedly similar use for which a separate use interpretation has not been issued.
