                             MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:           Planning Department
Date:           December 6, 2023
Subject:        Ordinance 23-16 - Adopting Section 6.05.425, Feeding Wild Birds/Fowl,
                regulating the feeding of wild birds/fowl within Riverton City, Ordinance proposed
                by Riverton City.


On October 12, 2023, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this
proposed Text Amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning
Commission recommended the following motion, with edits to the original proposed text
made following a work session with the City Council:

     I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 23-16, adopting Section 6.05.425, Feeding Wild
     Birds/Fowl, into the Riverton City Land Use Code, as described herein.

Background

The Riverton City Council has directed staff to prepare a proposed amendment to Section 6.05,
Animal Control, which would prohibit feeding of wild birds or fowl, such as pigeons or ducks by
placing or scattering feed on the ground. Feed in the rear yard on private property must be placed in
a container, and in front yard areas, provided such feeders were placed a minimum of five (5) feet off
the ground. Containers must be placed a minimum of 10 feet from any property line. The proposed
language includes standards for maximum feeder size, which allows for standard residential bird
feeders. The proposed language reads:

     It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, or distribute feed of any kind intended
     for or attracting to wild birds or fowl on the ground or other surface, or in feeders or other
     receptacles or structures placed on the ground or other surface, except as provided herein.
     Feed intended for or attracting to wild birds or fowl may be placed in a container located on
     private property a minimum of ten (10) feet from any property line. If placed in the front yard
     area containers must be located a minimum of five (5) feet off the ground, and such feeders
     may not exceed 300 cubic inches in capacity. This language shall not be construed to
     prohibit feeding of legally maintained chickens, ducks, or other fowl where allowed by
     zoning.

Staff is recommending adoption of the code, with any recommended additions or corrections.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Proposed Section 6.05.425
Report by: JL
11/28/2023
     Exhibit “A”

     6.05.425 Feeding Wild Birds / Fowl

     It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, or distribute feed of any
     kind intended for or attracting to wild birds or fowl on the ground or other
     surface, or in feeders or other receptacles or structures placed on the ground
     or other surface, except as provided herein. Feed intended for or attracting to
     wild birds or fowl may be placed in a container located on private property a
     minimum of ten (10) feet from any property line. If placed in the front yard area
     containers must be located a minimum of five (5) feet off the ground, and such
     feeders may not exceed 300 cubic inches in capacity. This language shall not
     be construed to prohibit feeding of legally maintained chickens, ducks, or other
     fowl where allowed by zoning.




Report by: JL
11/28/2023
