                                MEMORANDUM
To:                 Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:               Planning Department
Date:               April 15, 2025
Subject:            25-13, Text Amendment amending Sections 18.45.050; 18.50.050; 18.53.050;
                    18.55.050; 18.57.050; and 18.60.050 of the Riverton City Code relating
                    minimum parcel size for multi-family developments. Amendments proposed by
                    Riverton City.


On March 27, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider the
proposed text amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The
Commission, following extensive discussion, recommended reduced lot sizes from the
originally proposed draft text. The Commission’s recommended motion is below, as is the
original draft motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 25-13 amending the minimum lot size for Multifamily
developments in Sections 18.45.050; 18.50.050; 18.53.050; 18.55.050; 18.57.050; and 18.60.050
of the Riverton City Code as shown in Exhibit “A”, with the following changes:

                 1. RM-8 and RM-8-D be changed to a 2-acre minimum lot, except on major roadways
                    where the minimum lot size shall be 0.8 acres.

Alternative Motion:
I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 25-13 amending the minimum lot size for Multifamily
developments in Sections 18.45.050; 18.50.050; 18.53.050; 18.55.050; 18.57.050; and 18.60.050
of the Riverton City Code as shown in Exhibit “A”,

Background


Riverton City Code has six (6) multifamily residential zones with densities ranging from six units
per acre (6 du/a) up to eighteen units per acre (18 du/a).     Each of the Multi-family zones has
a minimum lot size as shown in the table below. These minimum lot sizes were established to
encourage parcel consolidation into projects of sufficient size to create quality projects.

As Riverton has grown over the years, the city has seen a shift from developing large farm
fields, to smaller projects of 3-5 acres, and in recent years a focus on small infill projects.
While there is still some undeveloped or underutilized land in the city, there are fewer and the
parcels are generally smaller. Assembling multiple parcels has become a high hurdle for
development even in areas that Riverton City has designated for multi-family in the General
Plan.
Report by: TJP
4/10/2025
These proposed adjustments to multi-family project size would create more options for the
Planning Commission and City Council as they make land-use decisions particularly for infill
properties and may enable development in areas previously designated for multifamily zoning.

The proposed changes will also simplify and standardize the area requirements such that all
four zones for RM-8 to RM-14 will have a 2-acre minimum. The highest density zone will still
require a larger project size with 5 acres. The RM-6 zone will remain unchanged.


          Zone             Density              Current Lot Size          Proposed Lot Size
                                          1.5 acres minimum
 RM-6                 6 units per acre    15 acres maximum
                                                                         No changes
 18.45.050            (Detached only)     With an exception for 0.50-
                                          acre lots on Major Streets.

 RM-8                                     5 acres minimum
                      8 units per acre                                   2 acres minimum
 18.50.050                                10 acres maximum

 RM-8-D
                      8 units per acre    2 acres minimum                No changes
 18.53.050

 RM-14
                      14 units per acre   5 acres minimum                2 acres minimum
 18.55.050

 RM-14-D
                      14 units per acre   2 acres minimum                No changes
 18.57.050

 RM-18                                    10 acres minimum
                      18 units per acre                                  5 acres minimum
 18.60.050                                20 acres maximum




The Commission’s recommendation was to reduce the minimum lot size requirements as shown
above, but further amend the RM-8 and RM-8-D zones to allow 0.8 acre lots along “main
thoroughfares”, which under City Code would be termed major roadways. For the areas allowing
RM-8 or RM-8-D zoning, this would be Redwood Road and 12600 South. Staff will present
additional information illustrating these areas at the hearing.

Attachments

The following items are attached:
    1. Current Text of Multifamily Zones Area Requirements.
    2. Proposed Text Amendments to the Multifamily Zone Area Requirements.




Report by: TJP
4/10/2025
Current Text
18.45.050 Area requirements.
(1) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than one
and a half acres and not more than 15 acres. The city council may approve zoning and
development under the RM-6 zone on parcels of at least one-half acre where such parcels have
frontage onto a major street and where such use is in compliance with the Riverton City general
plan and with the surrounding properties. For purposes of this section, “major streets” shall be
defined as Redwood Road, 12600 South, 13400 South, 3600 West, 2700 West, or 1300 West.

18.50.050 Area requirements.
(1) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than five
acres and not more than 10 acres.
(2) Percent Open Space. Each development in the RM-8 zone shall have a minimum of 30
percent of the site reserved for common open space.

18.53.050 Area requirements.
(1) Area. Each application pursuant to this chapter must be for a parcel or parcels within the
downtown area, as defined in Figure 1 attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(2) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than two
acres.

18.55.050 Area requirements.
(1) Area. Each application pursuant to this chapter must be for parcel or contiguous parcels
within Riverton City.
(2) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than five
acres.
(3) Percent Open Space. Each development in the RM-14 zone shall have a minimum of 25
percent of the site reserved for common open space.

18.57.050 Area requirements.
(1) Area. Each application pursuant to this chapter must be for a parcel or parcels within the
downtown area, as defined in Figure 1 attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(2) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than two
acres.
(3) Percent Open Space. Each development in the RM-14-D zone shall have a minimum of 25
percent of the site reserved for common open space.

18.60.050 Area requirements.
(1) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than 10
acres and not more than 20 acres.
(2) Open Space. Each development in the RM-18 zone shall have a minimum of 40 percent of
the site reserved for common open space.




Report by: TJP
4/10/2025
Proposed Text Amendments
18.45.050 Area requirements.
(1) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than one
and a half acres and not more than 15 acres. The city council may approve zoning and
development under the RM-6 zone on parcels of at least one-half acre where such parcels have
frontage onto a major street and where such use is in compliance with the Riverton City general
plan and with the surrounding properties. For purposes of this section, “major streets” shall be
defined as Redwood Road, 12600 South, 13400 South, 3600 West, 2700 West, or 1300 West.

18.50.050 Area requirements.
(1) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than two
(2) acres. five acres and not more than 10 acres.
(2) Percent Open Space. Each development in the RM-8 zone shall have a minimum of 30
percent of the site reserved for common open space.

18.53.050 Area requirements.
(1) Area. Each application pursuant to this chapter must be for a parcel or parcels within the
downtown area, as defined in Figure 1 attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(2) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than two
acres.

18.55.050 Area requirements.
(1) Area. Each application pursuant to this chapter must be for parcel or contiguous parcels
within Riverton City.
(2) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than two
(2) acres. five acres.
(3) Percent Open Space. Each development in the RM-14 zone shall have a minimum of 25
percent of the site reserved for common open space.

18.57.050 Area requirements.
(1) Area. Each application pursuant to this chapter must be for a parcel or parcels within the
downtown area, as defined in Figure 1 attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(2) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than two
acres.
(3) Percent Open Space. Each development in the RM-14-D zone shall have a minimum of 25
percent of the site reserved for common open space.

18.60.050 Area requirements.
(1) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than five
(5) acres. 10 acres and not more than 20 acres.
(2) Open Space. Each development in the RM-18 zone shall have a minimum of 40 percent of
the site reserved for common open space.




Report by: TJP
4/10/2025
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    5
March 27, 2025



Commissioner Keele was in favor of allowing up to 50%.
The Commission agreed that the maximum percentage of glass per side would be increased
to 50%.

Accent metal was discussed next and it was noted that the Commission previously
discussed removing the maximum of 10% per building side. Mr. Prestwich indicated that
metal panels that look like wood, brick, or stone are becoming more popular due to their
ease of shipping and installation, as well as flat, colored metal that is used in place of stucco.
Chair Park stated that cladding a building in metal would make it a primary material, not an
accent. Mr. Prestwich suggested moving the definition of accent metal from the Prohibited
Materials section and clarifying that metal panels made to look like other materials are not
considered accents.

Commissioner Cluff was comfortable allowing 20% accent metal. Commissioner Matheson
asked if it would be appropriate to leave it at the Planning Commission’s discretion.
Commissioner Knudsen agreed with clarifying the definition and liked the idea of leaving the
determination to the Land Use Authority. Commissioner Rushton stated that the percentage
should be clearly defined to allow Staff to better guide developers and architects. After
further discussion, it was decided that accent metal should be limited to 20% per building
side, and accent metal should be defined as “Corrugated metal or similar material, and
rusted or otherwise distressed-look metal.”

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Knudsen moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of amendments to the City’s Commercial Architectural Standards in
Sections 18.65.060, 18.70.060, 18.75.050, 18.80.060, 18.85.060, 18.95.040, 18.100.060,
and 18.215.030 of the Riverton City Code with the following changes:

       1.     Increase allowed glass coverage to a maximum of 50% of any one side.

       2.     Move the definition of “rusted metal” from prohibited to approved accent
              materials.

       3.     Increase the allowed percentage of accent metal to not exceed 20%.

Commissioner Keele seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       C.     “MULTI-FAMILY PARCEL SIZE”, PLZ-25-5004, RIVERTON CITY IS
              PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE
              FOR MULTI-FAMILY PARCEL SIZE, FOUND IN SECTIONS 18.45.050,
              18.50.050, 18.53.050, 18.55.050, 18.57.050, AND 18.60.050.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 6
March 27, 2025


Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the proposed changes were not
related to an application and there were no time constraints for approval of the amendments.
He reported that the process was similar to rezoning so the Planning Commission would
make a recommendation to the City Council and the Council would make the final decision.

The Zoning and General Plan Maps were reviewed. Each current multi-family housing zone
has a minimum required area. For example, the owner of a three-acre parcel cannot apply
to rezone the property RM-8 because five acres are required. The Planning Commission
and City Council could not even consider whether eight units per acre would be an
appropriate use for the parcel. That made sense in the past when there were many large
parcels available, but recently developers have been unable to build in the areas set aside
for multi-family housing because they have not been able to meet the acreage requirements.

Another issue is that the area requirements are different for each zone, and it is difficult to
keep track of which zone someone needs to apply for and how much acreage is required.
Staff proposes standardizing the acreage requirements across more zones and lowering the
requirement in some zones.

The affected zones are RM-6, RM-8, RM-8-D, RM-14, RM-14-D, and RM-18. At the
Council’s direction, RM-6 was previously changed to only allow detached units, and there
are currently four RM-6 developments in Riverton. It is now a detached, small-lot zone.
Twin homes can be allowed on a limited basis. All other affected zones are for townhomes
and condominiums.

Mr. Prestwich reviewed the current required lot size for the zones as follows:

   •   RM-6: 1.5 acres minimum, 15 acres maximum;
   •   RM-8: 5 acres minimum, 10 acres maximum;
   •   RM-8-D: 2 acres minimum;
   •   RM-14: 5 acres minimum;
   •   RM-14-D: 2 acres minimum; and
   •   RM-18: 10 acres minimum, 20 acres maximum.

Staff recommended removing all maximums and changing all minimums to two acres except
RM-18, which would have a five-acre minimum. There are only a few areas of the City where
an RM-18 project would be allowed even with the reduced minimum, including areas near
2700 West and 13400 South and on 4000 West between 12600 South and 11800 South.
Those areas are currently designated by the General Plan for single-family homes on one-
third and one-quarter acre lots.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the amendments would address concerns expressed by both
the City’s elected officials and the development community, but the specific requirements
could be modified at the Planning Commission’s discretion. Staff believes that two acres is
the proper minimum. People often ask about rezoning three-acre and two-acre parcels for
higher density, but there are no longer any requests for five-acre parcels.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 7
March 27, 2025



Mr. Prestwich discussed how currently zoning prohibits the development or redevelopment
of areas of the City, including near Redwood Road and 1300 West north of 12600 South.
The General Plan indicates that the area should be developed with multi-family housing of
five to eight units per acre, and the RM-8 zone would be the rational choice for this
designation. However, it is outside of the downtown zone, so a property owner could not
currently apply to rezone to RM-8 unless they had five acres. Part of the area is currently
zoned commercial and part is zoned residential. Even if a developer were to acquire three
separate parcels in the area, it would not meet the five-acre minimum.

Another area near 2700 West is not designated multi-family by the General Plan, but people
have asked about developing the area in the past. It currently has older houses and passive
uses and is an underutilized area. Mr. Prestwich reported that there are also not five acres
available in this area.

Another area that is currently zoned commercial had approval for an 80-foot office building
that was never developed. A developer who expressed interested in developing multi-family
on the commercial property was unable to move forward because they could not meet the
minimum acreage requirement. It would have required him to purchase several adjacent
one-half-acre residential lots with existing homes.

Mr. Prestwich referred to a development in Sandy that the City Council has discussed as a
product that may work in Riverton. It has townhomes with a central driveway, guest parking,
and rear-loading garages. However, the development is on 1.1 acres, so it would not be
allowed even with the proposed changes. Staff recommended decreasing the minimums to
two acres as a first step. If the market is still unable to produce anything with that change,
the Planning Commission and City Council could consider lowering it further in one to two
years.

The public hearing was noticed on the City website and no comments were received.
However, they have had multiple comments from developers and landowners over the years
who were unable to assemble enough property to meet the current minimums.

Commissioner Rushton asked for the approximate acreage on the parcel near the canal and
carwash that has an existing fourplex. Mr. Prestwich stated that it is likely 0.4 to 0.6 acres.
Commissioner Rushton stated that the property to the east has the same approximate
footprint and asked about the implications of allowing multi-family on lots of that size. He
believes that would be a better housing option than large high-rise buildings.

Mr. Prestwich expressed concern that decreasing the minimum to one-half acre would
disincentivize assembling parcels. A larger minimum would encourage developers to work
with property owners who may be holdouts, which could help correct the issue with
underutilized or unmaintained properties. Commissioner Rushton noted that the approach
would drive up costs because the developer would need to acquire additional parcels to
meet the minimum acreage requirements rather than build infill projects. He believes some
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
March 27, 2025


homeowners with one-acre properties would have an interest in subdividing and building a
two- or fourplex behind their home to generate additional income.

Mr. Prestwich stated that it is about timing. Many people are not ready to sell their homes
even if the property is aging. Finding a group of people who are all ready at the same time
is a difficult task. He noted that one option would be to include the exception outlined in the
RM-6 Zone where the zoning can be applied to one-acre or half-acre lots on major streets,
or on specific major streets.

Commissioner Rushton suggested deferring the discussion until the joint City Council and
Planning Commission meeting on April 15, 2025. Mr. Prestwich clarified that the meeting is
to discuss the General Plan, and there likely would not be time for other topics. This item
could not be presented to the Council as a decision item until the Planning Commission
makes a recommendation. Commissioner Rushton stated that he does not believe the City
should force consolidation, and he believes these types of standards prevent the creation of
affordable housing. He was in favor of a one-half acre minimum for R-6 and R-8 zones.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that a rezoning
application would still be required. If the Planning Commission determined that the location,
configuration, or shape of a parcel would not fit a specific zone, they could deny a rezoning
request based on the reasonably debatable argument that the specific parcel is not a good
fit for multi-family housing. Additionally, by setting a minimum of two acres rather than one-
half or one acre, driveways can be consolidated and there would be more of a community
feel. Chair Park noted that there could be very different-looking buildings adjacent to each
other if the minimum was decreased.

Commissioner Matheson expressed concerns about allowing multi-family zoning on smaller
parcels that could potentially block other parcels from development.

Commissioner Knudsen agreed with Commissioner Rushton that the minimum should be
decreased. In response to his question, Mr. Prestwich estimated that they would see
projects within three months of decreasing the minimum to two acres. Those applications
would come before the Planning Commission for consideration. With a lower minimum-lot-
size, the number of applications may be overwhelming. Commissioner Rushton stated that
too many applications would be a good problem to have.

Chair Park asked for clarification on the reserved common open space specified in the
amended Code. Mr. Prestwich clarified that it is the common area of the plat, which includes
parking. No developers had indicated they would have difficulty meeting the requirement,
but there could be more challenges if the minimum acreage is decreased. In response to a
follow-up question from Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich stated that the first projects they consider
under the new regulations will likely be RM-8.

Commissioner Cluff was in favor of an incremental approach. In her time on the
Commission, she has seen decisions made that were later regretted, like the color of the
House of Vapes and the Premier Medical building that is much taller than neighboring
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   9
March 27, 2025


residential properties. The Planning Commission did not see those issues when the
buildings were approved, but they now know to look for those issues when considering
projects. She preferred to start with the two-acre minimum and reevaluate if any issues
arise. She suggested decreasing the minimum acreage to one acre on main artery roads in
the RM-8 Zone.

Commissioner Keele agreed with Commissioner Cluff that they should move more slowly.
She would be in favor of allowing a minimum as low as one-half acre on main artery roads.

Commissioner Cluff stated that she does not believe forced consolidation will drive up costs
because large projects are cheaper to build than small ones. While the land acquisition cost
may be higher, the building costs would be lower.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich clarified that the long
lots on Redwood Road are under one acre. An existing home would be counted as a unit
of density. Commissioner Rushton asked how the Commission would feel about lowering
the minimum to 0.8 acres to open that type of deep lot to multi-family zoning.

Chair Park asked if allowing multi-family on small lots really fits the City Council and Planning
Commission’s vision for the City. As the underutilized parcels are redeveloped and better
utilized, they should consider whether they would want, for example, four projects with very
different architectural styles next to each other. Commissioner Rushton stated that he
believes it is about private property rights, and the City should allow people to develop their
property without concern about what the neighbors do or think.

Commissioner Knudsen stated that it would be hard to build six units on 0.8 acres. In
multiunit projects, there are shared driveways, water meters, and things that require a
Homeowners Association ("HOA"), but six units are not big enough for an HOA. Those types
of constraints will encourage developers to go bigger. He agreed with Commissioner
Rushton that the minimum acreage should be lowered. In response to a question from
Commissioner Cluff, Commissioner Knudsen stated that he was in favor of limiting the
smaller acreage requirement to the main arteries already identified in the Code. He
preferred to decrease the requirement to one-half acre on those roads in the RM-8 Zone
and keep it at two acres everywhere else.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Preston Fetzer stated that there are a lot of lots in the City that have been undeveloped for
a long time, and anything that would bring development to those parcels would be a positive
change. Housing prices are crazy everywhere, and the solution must start at the local level.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Mr. Prestwich discussed the Planning Commission’s options for the item, which included
asking Staff to incorporate their recommendations and bring the item back at a future
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             10
March 27, 2025


meeting, waiting for the City Council’s feedback prior to deciding on a course of action or
making a recommendation with changes.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich stated that the
townhome project on 11800 South is on 1.04 acres. However, it is a special circumstance
because it is being added to the existing Sycamore Glenn subdivision and will have the
same Special District (“SD”) designation. Most of the lots on Redwood Road would meet
the 0.8-acre minimum and have been designated High-Density Residential in the General
Plan for over 25 years.

After further discussion, it was agreed that the RM-6 Zone should remain unchanged, and
both RM-8 and RM-8-D should have an exception for a minimum lot size of 0.8 acres on
major thoroughfares.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of amendments to minimum lot size for Multi-family Developments in Sections
18.45.050; 18.50.050; 18.53.050; 18.55.050; 18.57.050; and 18.60.050 of the Riverton
City Code, with the following changes:

      1.     There should be no changes to the RM-6 Zone.

      2.     RM-8 and RM-8-D Zones should be changed to a 2-acre minimum, but
             allow an exception of a minimum lot size of 0.8-acres on main
             thoroughfares.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      D.     “TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL USES,” PLZ-25-5003, RIVERTON CITY IS
             PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE
             RELATING TO TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL USES, FOUND IN SECTION
             18.135.200.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the proposed changes to Temporary Commercial Uses were
being introduced in response to discussions between Mayor Staggs and the City Council
regarding uses like Christmas tree lots and fireworks stands. Current City Code allows those
uses on commercial properties with restrictions. Because can present challenges in the
allowed areas and compete with existing businesses, they are only allowed as a temporary
uses.

The current Code states that temporary commercial uses may only be conducted on a
commercially-zoned parcel except as described in the Home Occupation Ordinance, which
allows outdoor seasonal retail sales such as Christmas trees, fireworks, pumpkin patches,
haunted houses, and corn mazes only when produced entirely on the site. If someone grows
Christmas trees or pumpkins onsite, for example, that would be an allowed Home
Occupation.
