                                          EXHIIBT C

                               CITY OF RIVERTON, UTAH
                        HOSPITAL REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS,
                                     SERIES 2024
                              (INTERMOUNTAIN HEALTH)



                                      __________________

                              BOND PURCHASE AGREEMENT

                                      __________________

                                         May 15, 2024

City of Riverton, Utah
12830 South Redwood Road
Riverton, Utah 84065

IHC Health Services, Inc.
c/o Intermountain Health Care, Inc.
36 South State Street, Suite 2100
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

Ladies and Gentlemen:

              The undersigned, WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (the
“Purchaser”), offers to enter into this Bond Purchase Agreement (the “Bond Purchase
Agreement”) with the CITY OF RIVERTON, UTAH (the “Issuer”) and IHC HEALTH SERVICES, INC.
(the “Borrower”) which, upon acceptance of this offer by each of you, will be binding upon each
of you and upon the Purchaser. This offer is made subject to your mutual acceptance of this
agreement on the date hereof.

               The Issuer proposes to issue and sell, for the benefit of the Borrower,
$200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the City of Riverton, Utah Hospital Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2024 (Intermountain Health) (the “Bonds”). The proceeds of the Bonds
will be used, together with other funds of the Borrower, to provide the funds necessary to (a)
refund the Issuer's Hospital Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2012A (IHC Health Services, Inc.)
(the “Refunded Bonds”) and (b) pay the costs of issuance.

              The Issuer entered into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, dated as of April 1,
2007, with Box Elder County, Utah, Cache County, Utah, Davis County, Utah, Salt Lake County,
Utah, Summit County, Utah, Utah County, Utah, Washington County, Utah and Weber County,
Utah pursuant to which the Issuer is authorized to issue Bonds for the purpose of financing and




4860-0775-1345.4
refinancing of projects located in such city and counties. Such Agreement is referred to herein as
the “Interlocal Agreement.”

               In connection with the issuance of the Bonds, the Issuer will enter into (i) a Bond
Trust Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2024 (the “Bond Indenture”), with Zions Bancorporation,
N.A., as trustee (the “Trustee”), (ii) a Loan Agreement, dated as of May 1, 2024 (the “Loan
Agreement”), with the Borrower, (iii) a Tax Exemption Certificate and Agreement dated the date
hereof (the “Tax Exemption Agreement”), with the Borrower and the Trustee and (iv) a
Continuing Covenant Agreement dated as of May 1, 2024 (the “Continuing Covenant
Agreement”), among the Purchaser, the Borrower and Intermountain Health Care, Inc. (the
“Corporation”), as Credit Group Representative under the Master Indenture (as such terms are
defined in the hereinafter defined Master Indenture). Unless otherwise provided herein, terms
used in this Bond Purchase Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the Bond Indenture
and in the Continuing Covenant Agreement.

               Concurrently with the execution and delivery of the Bond Indenture, there is to be
executed and delivered Supplemental Indenture Number 57, dated as of May 1, 2024
(“Supplemental Indenture No. 57”), to the Master Trust Indenture (Amended and Restated) dated
as of November 15, 2003 (herein together with all supplements and amendments thereto is herein
called the “Master Indenture”) among the Corporation, the Borrower, the other Obligated Group
Members (as defined in the Master Indenture) party thereto and Zions Bancorporation, N.A.
(formerly known as Zions Bank, a division of ZB, National Association, as successor to First
Security Bank, National Association, as trustee (the “Master Trustee”). The Borrower will issue
a promissory note under the Master Indenture, the Intermountain Health Obligated Group Series
QQQ Note (Riverton 2024 Financing), in a principal amount equal to the original aggregate
principal amount of the Bonds, pursuant to Supplemental Indenture No. 57 (the “Series QQQ
Note”). The Series QQQ Note will evidence the loan of Bond proceeds being made pursuant to
the Loan Agreement and will be pledged by the Issuer to the Trustee pursuant to the Bond
Indenture to secure the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds.

               1.      Upon the terms and conditions and upon the basis of the respective
representations, warranties and covenants hereinafter set forth, the Issuer hereby agrees to sell to
the Purchaser, and the Purchaser hereby agrees to purchase from the Issuer, all (but not less than
all) of the Bonds for an aggregate purchase price of $200,000,000 (representing the par value of
the Bonds). The Bonds will be limited obligations of the Issuer and will be issued under and
pursuant to, and will be secured by, the Bond Indenture. As described in the Bond Indenture, the
Bonds will mature on May 15, 2039, and will initially operate in a Direct Purchase Period
beginning on the date hereof and ending on May 14, 2029. The Bonds will be subject to
redemption prior to maturity as described in the Bond Indenture. During the initial Direct
Purchase Period, the Bonds will bear interest as set forth in the Bond Indenture.




                                                 2
4860-0775-1345.4
              2.      The Issuer hereby represents and warrants to, and covenants with, the
Purchaser and the Borrower that:

                          (a)    The Issuer is duly organized and existing as a municipal
                   corporation of the State of Utah with the powers and authority set forth in
                   Chapter 17 of Title 11, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended (the “Act”).

                           (b)     The Issuer is authorized under the laws of the State of Utah,
                   including particularly the Act and Chapter 13 of Title 11, Utah Code Annotated,
                   1953, as amended, to issue the Bonds for the purposes for which they are to be
                   issued, to loan the proceeds to the Borrower in accordance with the Loan
                   Agreement and to pledge and assign the Series QQQ Note and its rights under the
                   Loan Agreement (subject to the exceptions set forth in the Bond Indenture) to the
                   Trustee as security for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and
                   interest on the Bonds.

                           (c)    The Issuer has full power and authority to consummate the
                   transactions contemplated by the Bonds, the Bond Indenture, the Loan Agreement,
                   the Tax Exemption Agreement and the Interlocal Agreement (collectively, the
                   “Issuer Documents”) and this Bond Purchase Agreement.

                            (d)    The Issuer has duly authorized all necessary action to be taken by it
                   for: (i) the issuance and sale of the Bonds upon the terms set forth herein and in
                   the Bond Indenture; (ii) the loan of the proceeds of the Bonds to the Borrower;
                   (iii) the execution and delivery of the Issuer Documents and this Bond Purchase
                   Agreement and any and all such other agreements and documents as may be
                   required to be executed and delivered by the Issuer in order to carry out, give
                   effect to and consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (iv) the
                   performance by the Issuer of its obligations provided for in the Issuer Documents
                   and this Bond Purchase Agreement.

                           (e)     The Issuer Documents shall be in substantially the forms heretofore
                   submitted to and approved by the Purchaser, with only such changes therein as the
                   Purchaser, its counsel, the Borrower and the Issuer shall mutually agree upon.
                   The Bonds, when issued, delivered and paid for as herein and in the Bond
                   Indenture provided, will have been duly authorized and issued and will constitute
                   valid and binding limited obligations of the Issuer enforceable in accordance with
                   their terms and entitled to the benefits and security of the Bond Indenture and
                   Loan Agreement and the Series QQQ Note pledged thereunder (subject to any
                   applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws
                   affecting the enforcement of creditors’ rights generally from time to time in effect
                   and further subject to the availability of equitable remedies). The Bonds and the
                   interest thereon do not pledge the credit of the State of Utah or any political
                   subdivision thereof, nor are they a charge against the general credit or taxing
                   powers of such entities or of the Issuer or a lien against any of their property. The
                   Bonds shall be limited obligations of the Issuer, and no taxes or other revenues

                                                     3
4860-0775-1345.4
                   (other than revenues pledged under the Bond Indenture, the Loan Agreement or
                   the Series QQQ Note) are required or authorized to be levied for the payment of
                   the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds, such principal,
                   premium and interest being payable solely as provided in the Bond Indenture, the
                   Loan Agreement and the Series QQQ Note.

                           (f)    The Issuer will apply the proceeds from the sale of the Bonds as
                   specified in the Bond Indenture and Loan Agreement. So long as any of the
                   Bonds remain outstanding, and except as may be authorized by the Bond
                   Indenture, the Issuer will not issue or sell any bonds or obligations, other than the
                   Bonds sold hereby, which will be payable from payments on the Series QQQ Note
                   and other amounts derived from the Loan Agreement.

                           (g)     To the knowledge of the Issuer, there is no action, suit, proceeding,
                   inquiry or investigation at law or in equity or before or by any court, public board
                   or body pending or threatened against or affecting the Issuer (or, to the knowledge
                   of the Issuer, any meritorious basis therefor) wherein an unfavorable decision,
                   ruling or finding would adversely affect (i) the transactions contemplated hereby
                   or the validity of this Bond Purchase Agreement or the Issuer Documents or any
                   other agreement or instrument to which the Issuer is a party and which is used or
                   contemplated for use in the consummation of the transactions contemplated
                   hereby or (ii) the federal or state tax-exempt status of the interest on the Bonds.

                           (h)    The execution and delivery by the Issuer of the Issuer Documents
                   and the other documents contemplated hereby and the pledge of the Series QQQ
                   Note with the Trustee and compliance with the provisions of each thereof will not
                   conflict with or constitute on the part of the Issuer a breach of or a default under
                   any existing law, court or administrative regulation, decree or order or any
                   agreement, indenture, mortgage or lease by which it or its property is or may be
                   bound.

                          (i)    The Issuer is not aware of anything that would cause the issuance
                   and sale of the Bonds to the Purchaser to be subject to any transfer or other
                   documentary stamp taxes of the State of Utah or any political subdivision thereof.

                           (j)     Any certificate signed by an authorized officer of the Issuer
                   delivered to the Purchaser or the Borrower shall be deemed a representation and
                   warranty by the Issuer to the Purchaser and/or to the Borrower, as the case may be,
                   as to the statements made therein.

                           (k)    The Issuer is not in breach of or in default under any applicable law
                   or administrative regulation of the State of Utah or the United States or any
                   applicable judgment or decree or any loan agreement, indenture, bond, note,
                   resolution, agreement or other instrument to which the Issuer is a party or is
                   otherwise subject, and no event has occurred and is continuing which, with the
                   passage of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a default or an


                                                     4
4860-0775-1345.4
                   event of default under any such instrument, in any case which breach or default
                   would have an adverse effect on the transactions contemplated by this Bond
                   Purchase Agreement.

                3.       The Borrower hereby makes each of the representations and warranties set
forth in the Continuing Covenant Agreement, which representations and warranties, together
with the related definitions of terms contained therein, are incorporated herein by this reference
with the same effect as if each and every such representation and warranty and definition were set
forth herein in its entirety.

               4.    The Purchaser hereby represents and warrants to and covenants with the
Issuer and the Borrower as follows:

                           (a)     The Purchaser is a “qualified institutional buyer” within the
                   meaning of Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; and the
                   Purchaser is purchasing the Bonds for its own account, and not with a present
                   view toward resale or distribution; provided that the Purchaser reserves the right
                   to sell, transfer or redistribute the Bonds subject to the provisions of the Bond
                   Indenture and the Investor Letter.

                           (b)    At or prior to the Closing Date (as defined below), the Purchaser
                   shall execute the Investor Letter and deliver the Investor Letter to each addressee
                   thereof.

                          (c)    The Purchaser acknowledges that it has read and understands the
                   provisions of the Bond Indenture relating to restrictions on the transfer of the
                   Bonds and agrees to comply with such restrictions to the extent applicable to the
                   Purchaser.

                5.      The closing of the sale of the Bonds will be held at the offices of Chapman
and Cutler LLP (“Bond Counsel”), on May 15, 2024 (the “Closing Date”), or at such other time
as shall have been mutually agreed upon by the Issuer, the Borrower and the Purchaser. The
Issuer will deliver, or cause to be delivered, to or upon the order of the Purchaser, the Bonds, in
definitive form, duly executed by the Issuer and duly executed and authenticated by the Trustee
and issued in authorized denominations registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for
The Depository Trust Company, along with the documents provided for herein and in Section
4.01 of the Continuing Covenant Agreement. Subject to the conditions of this Bond Purchase
Agreement, the Purchaser will accept such delivery and pay the purchase price thereof as set
forth herein by wire transfer (which payment in any event shall be in immediately available
funds) payable to the order of the Trustee.

                6.     If either the Issuer or the Borrower shall be unable to satisfy the conditions
of the obligations of the Purchaser contained in this Bond Purchase Agreement, or if the
obligations of the Purchaser to purchase and accept delivery of the Bonds shall be terminated for
any reason permitted by this Bond Purchase Agreement, this Bond Purchase Agreement shall
terminate and neither the Purchaser nor either of you shall be under further obligation hereunder;


                                                    5
4860-0775-1345.4
except that the respective obligations to pay expenses, as provided in Section 8 hereof, shall
continue in full force and effect. However, the Purchaser may, in its sole discretion, waive one
or more of the conditions imposed by this Bond Purchase Agreement for the protection of the
Purchaser and proceed with the closing on the Closing Date.

               7.     All representations, warranties and agreements of the Issuer and the
Borrower shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigations made by or on
behalf of the Purchaser, and shall survive any termination of this Bond Purchase Agreement by
the Purchaser pursuant to the terms hereof.

                   8.     (a)    If the Bonds are sold to the Purchaser by the Issuer, the Borrower
shall pay:

                                  (1)     any expenses incident to the performance of its obligations
                          hereunder including but not limited to: (i) the cost of the preparation and
                          printing of the definitive Bonds; and (ii) the fees and disbursements of
                          Bond Counsel and any other counsel, experts or consultants retained by
                          the Issuer; and

                                  (2)    all fees and expenses incident to the performance of the
                          Issuer’s obligations hereunder, including but not limited to fees of its
                          counsel.

                           (b)     The Borrower shall pay any expenses incident to the performance
                   of its obligations with respect to the issuance of the Bonds and, if the Bonds are
                   not sold by the Issuer to the Purchaser, the Borrower shall pay all expenses
                   incident to the performance of the Issuer’s obligations hereunder and the Issuer’s
                   fees with respect to the issuance of the Bonds, including the fees and
                   disbursements of Bond Counsel.

                9.      The Borrower agrees to cooperate with the Purchaser and its counsel in
any endeavor to qualify the Bonds for offering and sale under the securities or “blue sky” laws of
such jurisdictions of the United States as the Purchaser may reasonably request; provided,
however, that in no event shall the Borrower be required to take any action that would subject it
to service of process in any jurisdiction in which it is not now subject.

               10.    Any notice or other communication to be given to the Issuer or the
Borrower under this Bond Purchase Agreement may be given by delivering the same in writing at
their addresses set forth above, and any notice or other communication to be given to the
Purchaser under this Bond Purchase Agreement may be given by delivering the same in writing
to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, 1300 SW 5th Avenue P6101-138, Attention: Brant
Hunsaker.

               11.    This Bond Purchase Agreement is made solely for the benefit of the Issuer,
the Borrower and the Purchaser (including the successors or assigns of the Purchaser) and no
other person shall acquire or have any right hereunder or by virtue hereof. This Bond Purchase


                                                    6
4860-0775-1345.4
Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and each of such counterparts shall
for all purposes be deemed to be an original and all such counterparts shall together constitute
but one and the same instrument.

              12.     This Bond Purchase Agreement shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Utah.

                            [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]




                                               7
4860-0775-1345.4
                                            Very truly yours,

                                            WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL
                                                ASSOCIATION



                                            By:_______________________________________
                                                  Name: Brant Hunsaker
                                                  Title: Director

Accepted and agreed to as of
the date first above written:

CITY OF RIVERTON, UTAH




By: _______________________________________
        Authorized Issuer Representative


IHC HEALTH SERVICES, INC.



By: ______________________________________
       Name: Clay Ashdown
       Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
               of Intermountain Health Care, Inc.




4860-0775-1345.4
