                                                                                        Agreement No. _______

                     FIBER-OPTIC COMMUNICATIONS INTERCONNECTION
                         INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
        This is an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (“Agreement”), made and entered into by and between
the Utah Department of Transportation, hereinafter designated as “UDOT,” a public agency of the State of
Utah, and Riverton City, hereinafter designated as “City,” a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (each
a “Party” and together the “Parties”) with reference to the following facts and recitals:

                                                  WITNESSETH

        WHEREAS, UDOT owns and operates a fiber-optic cable system (including, without limitation, fiber -
optic cables and related distribution centers, connections, equipment, power supply and facilities, (collectively,
“UDOT’s System”) which provides high-speed, broadband network connectivity (collectively,
“Communication Services”) in certain streets and highways under UDOT’s control and jurisdiction (“UDOT
Highways”); and

           WHEREAS, the City wishes to use some of UDOT’s System for its telecommunications purposes;
and

         WHEREAS, the City intends to lay fiber-optic cable and create a fiber-optic cable system (including,
without limitation, fiber-optic cables and related distribution centers, connections, equipment, power supply
and facilities (“Facilities”), collectively, (“City’s System”) within non-private arterial and collector streets in
the City’s corporate boundaries which it owns or over which it has exclusive control and jurisdiction (“City
Streets”) for Communication Services, which it wishes to connect to UDOT’s fiber-optic cables; and

       WHEREAS, UDOT wishes to connect to and have the use of the City’s System in order to monitor
and control traffic control devices on the streets and highways under its jurisdiction for its Automated Traffic
Management System (ATMS) and for its other telecommunications purposes; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Title 11, Chapter 13, Utah
Code Annotated (1953) as amended, public agencies, including political subdivisions of the State of Utah as
defined therein, are authorized to enter into mutually advantageous agreements for joint or cooperative
action; and

         WHEREAS, UDOT and the City, through their respective governing bodies, have voluntarily
determined that the interest and welfare of the public will best be served by this Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement to provide for joint use of their resources in the use of City and UDOT facilities and property for
control of traffic control and telecommunications equipment of the parties,

          NOW, THEREFORE, be it mutually covenanted and agreed as follows, each of the Parties accepting
      as consideration for this Agreement the mutual promises and agreements of the other:

      1.   GRANT OF RIGHTS TO ENTER AND CONNECT TO SYSTEMS
             The Parties hereby grant the following licenses to each other.

           A. UDOT’s Grant of License to City; Purpose and Use. UDOT hereby grants to the City
               a non-exclusive revocable license to enter its streets, highways and real property to
               connect theCity’s Facilities to UDOT’s System, and to install, operate, inspect,
               maintain, repair, upgrade, replace and remove such Facilities within UDOT streets,
               highways and real property for the purpose of making available Communications
               Services via UDOT’s and the City’s Systems, all at the City’s sole cost and expense,
               and all subject to all the conditions, terms and covenants set forth in this Agreement,
               including compliance with the applicable portions of R930-6 Manual of
                                                       1
       Accommodation of Utility Facilities and the Control and Protection of State Highway
       Rights-of-Way, R930-7 Utility Accommodation, and R907-64 Longitudinal and
       Wireless Access to Interstate System Rights-of-Way for Installation of
       Telecommunication Facilities.

   B. City’s Grant of License to UDOT. The City hereby grants to UDOT a non-exclusive
       revocable license to enter and connect UDOT’s fiber-optic and telecommunications
       cables and Facilities to the City’s System, and to install, operate, inspect, maintain,
       repair, upgrade, replace and remove such cables and facilities within City Streets
       and real property for the purpose of making available Communications Services via
       the City’s and UDOT’s Systems, all at UDOT’s sole cost and expense, and all
       subject to all the conditions, terms and covenants set forth in this Agreement, and
       the City’s applicable ordinances, rules and regulations, including the City’s Standard
       Specifications for Work in the Public Right-of-Way, as it may be changed from time
       to time, or any replacement rules.

   C. Inspection. Each Party shall be entitled to inspect any work done under this Agreement in its
      streets, highways or on other property it owns. Each Party doing work in the streets and
      highways of the other shall give to the Party which controls the street or highway in which the
      work is done, a detailed and accurate report on work in the street or highway of the other Party
      upon request.

   D. Relocation. Upon 90 days prior written notice to the other Party, each Party may relocate all or
      part of its own and the other Party’s fiber-optic system within its streets, highways, or real
      property, at the expense of the Party which owns the fiber-optic facilities unless the Parties’
      Representatives agree otherwise in writing.

2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS

  A.   Conduit and Fiber and Equipment:
       (1) The City shall install fiber-optic cables and Facilities which it wishes to connect to the UDOT
       System. UDOT shall allow such connections to fiber-optic cable splice points subject to the
       other provisions herein.

       (2) The City shall install fiber-optic cables and Facilities in its newly constructed or reconstructed
       collector and arterial streets as excavations are done along substantial portions of the streets
       and shall connect the Facilities to traffic semaphores in or on those streets.

       (3) UDOT shall connect its System to the City’s System in Riverton City streets where useful to
       UDOT, subject to the other provisions herein.

       (4) All fiber-optic cables, splice points, and other facilities shall be and remain the property of
       the Party which caused them to be installed, whether in its own streets and highways, or in those
       of the other Party, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Parties’ Representatives.

       (5) All such connections shall be made at the sole cost and expense of the Party seeking the
       connection unless otherwise agreed between the parties by addendum or letter signed by the
       Parties’ Representatives.

       (6) Upon termination of this Agreement, all fiber-optic cables and telecommunications facilities
       installed in any streets, highways, or real property of the other Party under this Agreement may,
       at the discretion of the Party owningthe facilities be forthwith disconnected and removed from
       the streets, highways, or real property of the other in which it is placed, and retained by that
       Party, which shall be reasonably allowed by the Party owning or having jurisdiction over the
       streets, highways or real property. Any fiber-optic cables and Facilities not so removed within 60

                                                2
       days after the termination of this Agreement may become the property of the Party that owns the
       street or highway at its sole discretion.

       (7) Each Party shall perform all installation, maintenance, repair and removal work of its
       Facilities at its own expense or with funds allocated for such purpose, and with its own crews or
       contractors except as otherwise agreed in writing by the Parties’ Representatives. All Facility
       installation, repair, maintenance and replacement work under this Agreement shall be performed
       according to UDOT specifications. All road construction work within UDOT’s streets and
       highways or on UDOT real property shall be performed according to UDOT specifications, where
       applicable. All road construction work within City streets and highways or on City real property
       shall be performed according to City specifications.

       (8) Neither Party shall perform any construction work in the streets or highways of
       the other without complying with any applicable road-cut permit requirements for such work.
       Where any work is performed on real property owned by a party which is not a road or highway,
       the party which owns the property may require the contractor, party or entity performing the work
       to post payment and performance bonds in its discretion.

       (9) Either Party may contract or subcontract any work it performs hereunder to any person or
       entity competent and legally allowed to perform such work, provided that no such contract shall
       relieve the Party of any of its obligations under this Agreement.

  B. Maintenance:
      (1) Each Party shall be responsible for the costs of maintenance of its own fiber-optic cables,
      Facilities and system.

       (2) Both the City and UDOT agree to not perform any construction, reconstruction, splicing, or
       other work on the other Party’s fiber-optic cables, Facilities or fiber-optic system without the
       permission of the other Party.

       (3) Each Party agrees to hold the other Party harmless from any disruptions in service that it
       may suffer due to loss of telecommunications service, hardware and/or software, and each Party
       shall be fully responsible for implementing its own alternative or backup service or course of
       action should such an event occur.

  C. Compensation:
     General Services: Both City and UDOT agree that no monetary compensation will be paid by
     either Party to the other in exchange for the promises, covenants or work under this Agreement
     unless otherwise specifically agreed to by the Parties’ Representatives in writing.

3. EFFECTIVE DATE, DURATION, TERMINATION

  A. Effective Date, Duration:
     This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement shall be effective on the date it is signed by the Parties,
     and shall continue for a period of thirty (30) years, unless sooner terminated as provided herein.
     After the initial thirty(30)-year term, this Agreement shall renew automatically on its anniversary
     date for up to four successive five(5)-year periods for twenty(20) additional years, unless
     terminated in writing by either Party sixty (60) days prior to any such anniversary renewal date. If
     neither party notifies the other of an automatic renewal date as provided herein at least 60 days
     before the date, then either party may terminate this Agreement during that renewal term for any
     reason by notifying the other of its intent to do so. The termination shall become effective 90 days
     after delivery of the notice to the other.

  B. Termination:
     This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement may be terminated only according to Paragraph 3(A), by
     mutual agreement, or either Party may terminate as provided in Section 8.

                                              3
4. ADMINISTRATIVE ENTITY

   City and UDOT do not contemplate nor intend to establish a separate legal entity under the terms of
   this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.

5. MANNER OF FINANCING

   This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement and the action completed herein shall not receive separate
   financing, nor shall a separate budget be required. Each Party shall be responsible for its own
   obligations under this Agreement.

6. ADMINISTRATOR

   No separate legal entity is created by this Agreement. Pursuant to Section 11-13-207, Utah Code
   Annotated (1953), as amended, to the extent any administration of this Agreement becomes
   necessary, the Parties agree that the City Engineer and UDOT’s Fiber-Optics Manager or their
   designees shall constitute a joint board for such purpose. This Agreement does not anticipate or
   provide for any organizational changes in the City or UDOT.

7. FILING OF INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT

   A copy of this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement shall be placed on file at the offices of the City and
   UDOT, and shall remain on file for public inspection during the term of this Agreement.

8. NOTICE OF DEFAULT—CORRECTIVE ACTION

   The failure of either Party to comply with any term or condition of this Agreement shall constitute a
   breach of this Agreement. Either Party shall have thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice from
   the other of any breach to cure the conditions specified in the notice, or if the corrections cannot be
   made within the 30-day period, within a reasonable time if corrective action is commenced within ten
   (10) days after the receipt of the notice.

9. REASONABLE WEAR AND USE

   This Agreement is for use and does not represent a sale or transfer of any part of the fiber-optic
   systems of either Party identified herein. Therefore, each Party shall at the termination of the
   Agreement allow the other Party reasonable opportunity to remove all items and property identified
   herein as having been provided by or being owned by said other Party, subject to the other terms
   herein, including compliance with any lawful rules and regulations of the Party having jurisdiction of
   the road or property where the work is performed.

10. PARTIAL DESTRUCTION

   Partial or complete destruction of any of the fiber-optic systems of either Party or the streets or
   properties referred to herein shall not render this Agreement void or voidable, nor terminate it except
   as herein provided.

11. RIGHT TO ENTER

   Each Party reserves the right to enter the streets, highways and real property of the other Party at
   reasonable times to inspect, maintain, repair, operate, replace and remove its fiber-optic cables,
   system, and Facilities subject to the statues, regulations of the Party with jurisdiction over the streets,
   highways and real property entered, after obtaining permits and submitting plans and specifications
   as required.



                                                 4
12. GOVERNING LAW

   All questions with respect to the construction of this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement and all rights
   and liabilities of the Parties hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Utah.

13. REPRESENTATIVES, LIMITATIONS ON PAYMENTS, NOTICE

   The Parties’ Representatives shall be the persons listed below, or such other person designated to
   the other in writing by a supervisor of the Party’s Representative. Notwithstanding other provisions
   herein, the Parties Representatives may not agree to pay or make payments one to the other
   hereunder for any single item or group of related items in excess of $10,000 without the written
   agreement of the Director of UDOT and the City’s Mayor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing
   herein shall be construed to allow the Parties or either of them to circumvent applicable purchasing
   statutes. For purposes of notice required or desired by the parties, or communication involving the
   services under this Agreement, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been given
   when personally delivered or mailed, or sent by facsimile transmission, certified mail, postage pre-
   paid, to the parties at the following addresses:

   UDOT: Fiber-Optics Manager
   2060 South 2760 West
   Salt Lake City, Utah 84104

   Riverton City: Public Works Director,
   12830 South Redwood Road
   Riverton, Utah 84065

   or when given to such other person as either of the above representatives or their supervisors shall
   designate in writing to the other Party. The designation of any address may be changed by notice
   given in the same manner as provided in this paragraph.

14. INDEMNIFICATION

   Each Party agrees to indemnify and save harmless the other for damages, claims, suits and actions
   arising out of its own actions or omissions or the acts or omissions of its officers, agents, or
   employees in connection with this Agreement. It is expressly agreed between the Parties that the
   obligation to indemnify is limited to the dollar amounts set forth in the Governmental Immunity Act,
   Utah Code Ann. Section 63-30d-604, whether or not that Act applies. This provision is not a waiver of
   the Governmental Immunity Act by either Party.

15. GENERAL PROVISIONS

   A.   Severability. In the event that any condition, covenant, or other provision herein contained is
        held to be invalid or void by any court of competent jurisdiction, the same shall be deemed
        severable from the remainder of this Agreement and shall in no way affect any other covenant or
        condition herein contained. If such condition, covenant, or other provision shall be deemed
        invalid due to its scope or breadth, such provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of the
        scope or breadth permitted by law.

   B.   Entire Agreement, Waiver. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the Parties.
        No promise, representation, warranty, or covenant not included in this Agreement has been or is
        relied upon by the Parties to it. No waiver of any of the rights granted under this Agreement will
        be effective unless expressly made in writing.

   C.   Amendments. This Agreement may be modified only by a writing signed by the parties in
        interest at the time of the modification.


                                                5
       D.   No Assignment. This Agreement shall not be pledged or assigned without the prior written
            consent of the other Party.

       E.   Binding Effect. This Agreement shall bind the Parties, their successors, and assigns.

       F.   Captions. The captions to the various Sections of this Agreement are for convenience and ease
            of reference only and do not define, limit, augment, or describe the scope, content, or intent of
            this Agreement or any parts of this Agreement.

       G.   Time. Time is of the essence of each term, provision, and covenant of this Agreement.

       H.   Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which
            shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.

       I.   Third-Party Rights. Nothing herein is intended to confer rights of any kind upon any third party.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have signed and executed this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, after
resolution duly and lawfully passed, on the dates listed below:

DATED this___ day of May, 2013

UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION


By:

PRINT: ______________________________
UDOT Director of Operations

Approved as to Form and Compatibility
With the laws of the State of Utah

By:

PRINT: _______________________________
Assistant Attorney General
DATED this       day of May, 2013



RIVERTON CITY                                                   ATTEST:


                                                                 __________________________________
Mayor Trent Staggs                                               City Recorder


Approved as to Form and Conformity
With the Laws of the State of Utah



By:
      Riverton City Attorney



                                                   6
