                                     City Council Meeting Agenda
                                            March 4, 2025


PRESENTER:                Jason Lethbridge

                          Ordinance No. 25-06 - Joseph White Rezone, Rezone of approximately 0.81-
                          acres located at 11968 South Redwood Road from C-N (Commercial
ITEM:
                          Neighborhood) to C-G (Commercial Gateway). Applicant- Joseph White. -
                          Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director

SUMMARY:

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant, Joseph White, for rezoning an
0.81-acre parcel located at 11968 South Redwood Road. The property is an existing commercial
building, on the west side of Redwood Road. In the past it was notably used for Pet Planet. The
property is currently zoned C-N (Commercial Neighborhood), the requested zone is C-G which is
Gateway Commercial. The General Plan designation for this property is Community Commercial and this
request fits with the General Plan.
The applicant recently requested a Zone Text Change to amend the Commercial Neighborhood Zone to
allow Reception Centers. The Planning Commission recommended Denial, and the City Council did
deny the Zone Text Change. Both the Commission and Council expressed support of a Reception
center on the property but hesitated to support a zone text change that would apply to all C-N properties.
 It was suggested a rezone to C-G would meet the applicants goals.

FISCAL IMPACT:            NA

FUNDING SOURCE:           NA

ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance No. 25-06 - Joseph White Rezone Ordinance.pdf
25-06 Joseph White Rezone CC Staff Report.pdf

RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:

On February 13, 2025 the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this item. Minutes from
that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted to recommend approval, with the
following recommended motion:
I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #25-06, “Joseph White Rezone,” rezoning a 0.81-acre parcel
located at 11968 South Redwood Road from C-N to C-G (Commercial Gateway).




                                                                                                             1
