                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 2, 2026
Subject:         Ordinance 26-13, Amending Sections 18.90, 18.05.030, and 18.195.060,
                 adopting standards for “Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services
                 Facility” in the Commercial Gateway Zone, Amendments proposed by Gold
                 Cross Ambulance.



On May 14, 2026, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this proposed text
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission
recommended approval, with the following recommended motion

     I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 26-13, amending Sections 18.90, 18.05.030, and
     18.195.060, adopting standards for “Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services
     Facility” in the Commercial Gateway Zone, as shown in Exhibit “A”


Background


Riverton City code includes a Table of Commercial Uses in Section 18.90.010. The Table of
Uses lists many Land Uses and lists whether each use is Permitted (P), Not Permitted (NP), or
Conditional (C) in each of the six commercial zones. From time to time the Table of
Commercial Uses is reviewed and modified to meet the current needs of the City.

This amendment, brought by the applicant seeks to amend the table of uses so that Ambulance
Services becomes a Conditional Use in the Gateway (C-G) zone and introduces language
defining Ambulance Services and includes conditions governing the Ambulance service use.
Below is a description of each step required for this request.

     1. Remove “Ambulance” from the current category of “Motor Vehicle Services”




     2. Add a Category to the table for “Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services
        Facility” with permissions set to NP (Not Permitted) in the C-D, C-N, and C-PO zones.
        And C (Conditional) in the C-G, C-R, and PCC Zones.
Report by: tjp
5/27/2026
     3. Add a definition to section 18.05.030 for “Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical
        Services Facility”

                 a. Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services Facility. A facility used for
                    the deployment, staging, and housing of ambulances and emergency medical
                    personnel, excluding hospitals and emergency rooms. The use may include
                    administrative offices, staff living facilities, and vehicle storage but shall not
                    include routine patient intake or long-term patient care.

     4. Add conditions to RCC 18.195.060 “Special standards and considerations governing
        particular uses.”

           (5) Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services Facility. Conditional use
           approval shall be given based on compliance with all other standards in this chapter, and
           upon compliance with the following conditions and considerations:

                    (a) Vehicles stored indoors.
                    (b) Siren use prohibited until the vehicle is on a public road.
                    (c) No walk-in public services.
                    (d) Adequate parking and circulation shall be provided.
                    (e) Compatible site design and landscaping with surrounding development.

The Planning Commission recommended approval as described above, and staff concurs with
that recommendation.


 Attachments

The following items are attached:

      1.   Application and applicant submittals.
      2.   Existing Table of Commercial Uses
      3.   Proposed Table of Commercial Uses
      4.   Proposed Zone Text for 18.05.030 and 18.195.060 (5)




Report by: tjp
5/27/2026
Table of Commercial Uses.
 LAND USE                                           C-D     C-G      C-N     C-PO     C-R       PCC
 Motor vehicle services (taxi, auto rental,
                                                     C      NP       NP       NP        P        P
 ambulance, parcel pickup and delivery)
 Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical
                                                    NP       C       NP       NP        C        C
 Services Facility



Definition in 18.05.030
“Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services Facility”

Means a facility used for the deployment, staging, and housing of ambulances and emergency
medical personnel, excluding hospitals and emergency rooms. The use may include
administrative offices, staff living facilities, and vehicle storage but shall not include routine
patient intake or long-term patient care.

Conditions for 18.195.060

(5) Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services Facility. Conditional use approval
shall be given based on compliance with all other standards in this chapter, and upon
compliance with the following conditions and considerations:

          (a) Vehicles stored indoors.
          (b) Siren use prohibited until the vehicle is on a public road.
          (c) No walk-in public services.
          (d) Adequate parking and circulation.
          (e) Compatible site design and landscaping with surrounding development.




Report by: tjp
5/27/2026
