PC Minutes on Short
  Term Rentals.

  August 8, 2019
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  8
August 8, 2019

       2.     The private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on
              private lanes.

       3.     The private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according
              to the standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City
              Engineering Division.

       4.     The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval prior to any
              construction commencing on the private lane or additional lots.

Commissioner Hartley seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the commission.

5.     REZONE, DELWIN CRAIG IS REQUESTING A REZONE OF A PORTION OF A
       PARCEL LOCATED AT 1965 WEST 11800 SOUTH FROM RR-22 TO R-3
       (SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, 14,000 SQUARE-FOOT LOTS).

The staff report was presented with the previous item. Mr. Prestwich reported that agenda
items four and five were noticed separately. Notice was provided to property owners
within a 300-foot radius for the previous item and 1,000 feet for the conditional use.

Chair Russell opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner James moved to APPROVE the requested rezone of a portion of an
existing parcel located at 1965 West 11800 South from RR-22 to R-3. Commissioner
Hansen seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

6.     ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
       CHANGES TO THE LAND USE CODE REGARDING THE OPERATION OF
       SHORT-TERM RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.

Mr. Bott reported that the ordinance is intended to address short-term rentals AKA
Airbnbs in the City of Riverton. A number are already operating within the City and
residents have expressed concern about how they are being operated and asked that the
City prepare an ordinance to address them. Following public comment, the Commission
would be asked to provide a recommendation to the City Council.

Commissioner James asked Mr. Bott to describe the 1,000-foot distance between
buildings. Mr. Bott explained that staff received a call from a resident who lives on a short
street where two homes are operating as Airbnbs. Staff looked at other ordinances and
researched the distance requirements. Daycare and preschool uses, for example, require
a distance of 300 feet to another similar use. Staff felt that 1,000 feet was an appropriate
distance to keep one single street from becoming overrun with Airbnbs.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  9
August 8, 2019

Time limit and distance requirements were discussed. Mr. Bott stated that the City would
not be actively monitoring Airbnbs. If neighbors complain, the City’s Code Enforcement
Officer would go to the site and determine if the use is in violation of the Code. If there
are violations, the Conditional Use Permit can be revoked. If there are more than three
violations in one year the Conditional Use Permit can be revoked. Airbnbs and Accessory
Dwelling Unit (ADU) issues were discussed.

It was confirmed that Airbnb rentals are limited to 91 days per year. A Commission
Member considered three violations in a 12-month period to be very generous and was
in favor of three violations in three years resulting in revocation. He asked if it was
possible to draft a statement confirming that there are no warrants or illegal activities
taking place on the premises. Mr. Bott explained that background checks cannot be run
on people looking for housing. Staff suggested that changes, modifications, or
suggestions be put in writing for consideration by the City Council.

Chair Russell opened the public hearing.

Natalie Driggs commented on an Airbnb in her neighborhood. She stated that a 91-night
limit seemed like a great idea so that the property owners are not constantly renting out
their home. She explained that her neighbors rent out their home and advertise that it
sleeps 11. They already have two renters. This has resulted in a great deal of traffic and
parking problems. The neighbors sometimes rent out their home and sleep in their RV in
front of the home. Ms. Driggs reported that there is a housing shortage in Utah and
Airbnbs are driving up the cost of living. Homes that could be turned into long-term rentals
are being rented out nightly, which contributes to the shortage. Ms. Driggs was concerned
about sex offenders in her neighborhood and identified numerous safety concerns.

Chair Russell continued the public hearing to the next meeting.

A Commission Member also believed his neighbor was also doing an Airbnb in their
home. They live in the home permanently and rent out the basement. He wondered if
that is part of the 91-day rental period. Mr. Bott stated that if it is rented out as Airbnb,
the limit is 91 days. An ADU can be rented for a period longer than 91 days.

Chair Russell asked if there is a restriction that allows only one tenant at any given time.
Mr. Bott stated that there is not because it becomes an enforceability issue.

Commissioner Hansen moved to CONTINUE the discussion to the August 22, 2019
meeting. Commissioner Cannon seconded the motion. The motion passed with
the unanimous consent of the Commission.

●      MINUTES

7.     JUNE 13, 2019 PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING.

Commissioner Hansen moved to APPROVE meeting minutes from June 13, 2019
PC Minutes on Short
  Term Rentals.

  August 22, 2019
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             5
August 22, 2019

      3.     Total vehicle trips (drop-offs and/or pick-ups) may not exceed 24 per
             day.

      4.     Total floor area may exceed 25% of the main floor if using existing
             spaces without alterations.

      5.     A maximum of 12 children at any time.

      6.     A maximum of 18 children per day.

      7.     There should be no drop-offs or pick-ups on Redwood Road. All drop-
             offs and pick-ups shall occur at the rear of the property with access to
             a public street to the south.

Commissioner Hansen pointed out that at the last meeting they limited a similar use to
eight students that had an acceptable drop-off and pick-up situation. He questioned the
wisdom of now allowing up to 18 children per day in a 1,200 square-foot home with very
limited pick-up and drop-off access and safety issues. He was not opposed to granting
approval but would want to limit the number of children based on the size of the home
and the drop-off and pick-up area.

Commissioner Rushton was of the opinion that if there are others dropping off or picking
up their children, other parents may have to wait. As a business owner, he thought the
numbers were reasonable.

Commissioner Cannon was unsure how to police the situation. From a liability standpoint,
he thought there should be some restrictions in place in the event something were to
happen. The comment was made that the applicant should give specific instructions to
her clients and it should be self-policing.

Commissioner James moved to amend the motion to modify the conditions below:

      5.     A maximum of 8 children at any time.

      6.     A maximum of 12 children per day.

Commissioner Hansen seconded the amended motion.                The amended motion
passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
      CHANGES TO THE LAND USE CODE REGARDING THE OPERATION OF
      SHORT-TERM RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the matter was a continuation
from the last meeting. The Commission was provided with a copy of the ordinance and
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
August 22, 2019

asked for feedback. He received a letter late in the day, a copy of which was provided to
the Commission Members. The letter was read and made part of the record.

In the letter, Lauren Snyder addressed support for the proposed change to the Land Use
Code regarding the operation of short-term residential rental properties. It was suggested
that the lack of defined language regarding multi-tenant and business use of a home be
addressed to maintain safe neighborhoods. After moving to Riverton, Ms. Snyder was
disappointed to discover that her neighbors are operating an Airbnb out of their residence.
Not only do the owners live in the home, but they rent to longer-term tenants and operate
an Airbnb, which is advertised for 10 guests with “free parking” on the premises. The
result has been a non-stop revolving door of transient guests from all over the country.
The guests find their “free parking spots” on the street in front of Ms. Snyder’s home for
days on end. She and others in the neighborhood have called law enforcement on several
occasions to address parking issues. In addition to concerns with parking, the general
sense of safety in the neighborhood has vanished. Random people come and go from
the home at all hours. Concern was expressed with guests being drug traffickers,
criminals, or sex offenders who go unnoticed because the home and their stay is not
registered. The hope was that a change will be made to the Land Use Code to be more
stringent and limit the use of residential homes in such a manner. The hope was that the
Planning Commission will forward a recommendation of approval or denial onto the City
Council.

Chair Russell opened the continued public hearing. There were public comments. Chair
Russell closed the public hearing.

Commissioner James was unclear as to the nature of the proposal. He asked if the City
has the ability to prohibit Airbnbs. It was determined to be a property rights issue.
Commissioner James was concerned with a home in a residential area being allowed to
operate like a hotel. It was mentioned that the best the City can do is place reasonable
conditions on the use.

Commissioner Cannon reported that he built a home in 2006 in St. George with the intent
of doing short-term rentals. For a few months, they did very well until the City of St.
George began to prohibit nightly rentals. This significantly changed the economic
reasons for why they purchased the home. Commissioner Cannon sided with the
neighbors and wondered how liable the City is for allowing those types of businesses.
The City of St. George, for example, imposed a minimum 30-day requirement.

Commissioner Rushton clarified that a property owner living on site could have an
accessory dwelling unit on a residence and do a short-term rental on the same property.
Deputy City Attorney, Craig Bott responded to the questions raised but his responses
were not audible.

In response to a question raised, Mr. Prestwich stated that staff will need to implement a
fee schedule, an application form, etc. Commissioner Cannon asked if the Planning
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              7
August 22, 2019

Commission will have the authority to make changes if the outcome is not what is desired.
Mr. Bott stated that that will depend on how it is structured.

Commissioner Hansen moved that the Planning Commission recommend approval
of the proposed text amendments to Chapter 18.190 and other chapters of Title 18
allowing short-term rentals as hope occupations. Commissioner Hartley seconded
the motion. Vote on motion: Chair Russell-Aye, Commissioner Hansen-Aye,
Commissioner Hartley-Aye, Commissioner James-Nay, Commissioner Ruston-
Aye, Commissioner Endrizzi-Aye, Commissioner Cannon-Aye. The motion passed
6-to-1.

●     DECISION ITEMS

4.    AMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVED FINAL PLAT/MULTI-FAMILY SITE
      PLAN, PARKSIDE PHASE 2 (CONSISTING OF PLATS 3 AND 4), 25 SINGLE-
      FAMILY LOTS, 140 MULTI-FAMILY UNITS, AT APPROXIMATELY 4260 WEST
      12600 SOUTH, RM-14 ZONE, RIVERTON RANCH, LLC, APPLICANT.

Mr. Prestwich displayed a rendering of the Parkside development and explained that the
ninth condition of approval specified that the developer would work out an agreement with
the City to close the road access onto 12600 South. The City would ratify that agreement.
The Legal Department has been working closely with the applicant and their legal counsel
and the City Attorney asked that they substitute condition number nine. They are in the
process of making an agreement to resolve the issue of closing the road. Mr. Prestwich
explained that this was a decision item when it came to the Planning Commission rather
than a public hearing because it is a final site plan.

Commissioner James moved to AMEND the previous approval for Application #17-
1017, Parkside Phase 2 Final Plat Subdivision/Multi-Family Site Plan, located at
approximately 4260 South 12600 South removing condition #9 and substituting
Condition #9 with the following:

      9.     Prior to recordation of the plat, the developer shall provide adequate
             assurance that the Quail Lake Drive connection to 12600 South will be
             closed to the satisfaction of the City Attorney’s Office.

Commissioner Hartley seconded the motion.              The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

●     DISCUSSION ITEMS

There were no Discussion Items.
