                                                [Exhibit A]


                          [ COPY SHOWING LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS]



                                STORM WATER UTILITY ORDINANCE



        13.25.010     Purpose.
        13.25.020     Definitions.
        13.25.030     Stormwater utility created.
        13.25.040     Maintenance of city storm sewer facilities and assets.
        13.25.050     Utility administration.
        13.25.060     Service charge imposed.
        13.25.070     System of rates and charges.
        13.25.080     Billing and collection.
        13.25.090     Appeal of charges.
        13.25.100     Annual report to stormwater utility customers.

13.25.010 Purpose.
The city finds and declares that absent effective maintenance, operation, regulation and
control existing stormwater drainage conditions in all areas within the city constitute a
potential hazard to the health, safety and general welfare of the city. The city council further
finds that natural and manmade storm sewer facilities and conveyances constitute a storm
sewer system and that effective improvement, regulation, and control of stormwater through
formation by the city of a stormwater utility requires the transfer to the utility of all storm
sewer facilities and conveyances and related rights belonging to the city. [Ord. 10-08 § 1
(Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-010.]

13.25.020 Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply. Words used in the
singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular; words used in the
present tense shall include the future tense. The word “shall” is mandatory and not
discretionary. The word “may” is permissive. Words not defined in this section shall be
construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined in the latest
edition of Webster’s Dictionary.
“BMP” means best management practices and water quality devices, structures and
systems to improve stormwater quality as defined in Riverton City’s “Guidance Document
for Stormwater Management.”

“City” means Riverton City, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.

“City engineer” means an engineer hired by Riverton City and assigned to administer city
stormwater utility systems the Riverton City engineer or other designee appointed by the
city managerengineer’s designee.

“Council” means Riverton City council.

“County” means Salt Lake County.

“Customer” or “person” means any individual; public or private corporation and its officers;
partnership; association; firm; trustee; executor of an estate; the state or its departments,
institutions, bureaus, or agencies; county; city; political subdivision; or any other
governmental or legal entity recognized by law.

“Developed parcel” means any parcel whose surface has been altered by grading, filling, or
construction of any improvement.

“Discharge Component” means a unit of measure which accounts for a parcel’s discharge
of storm water into the city stormwater system. The Discharge Component is calculated by
finding the aggregate amount of impervious surface, divided by 2744.

“Equivalent residential unit (ERU)” means a unit equal to the square footage of impervious
surface area. This is based on an average single-family residential parcel, which has an
impervious surface area of 2,744 square feet.

“Guidance Document for Stormwater Management” means Salt Lake County Public Works
Department “Guidance Document for Stormwater Management.”“Hard Surface Unit (HSU)”
means a unit equal 2,744 square feet of impervious surface.

“Impervious surface ” means a parcel’s hard surface area that causes water to run off its
surface in quantities or speeds greater than under natural conditions and discharge directly
into the city’s storm sewer system. Some examples of impervious surfaces are rooftops,
concrete or asphalt paving, walkways, patios, driveways, parking lots or storage areas, and
gravel that has been subject to surface traffic, including compacted gravel surfaces.
“Mitigation” means on-site facilities or practices which reduce stormwater quantity or
improve stormwater quality.

“National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Stormwater Regulations” means
the provisions of the Federal Clean Water Act establishing specific permit requirements for
the control of stormwater discharge.

“Parcel” means the smallest, separately segregated unit of land having an owner. A parcel
has boundaries and surface area, and is documented with a property number by the county.

“Pollution component” means the pollutants commonly found in the stormwater discharged
from a parcel of land or into the ground. A pollution component varies according to the use
of a land parcel, therefore differing values will be assigned to a pollution component if the
property is used for single family residential, multifamily residential, commercial,
institutional, industrial and agricultural purposes.

“Roadway Use Component” means the transportation activities which result from a
particular use of land. A roadway use component varies according to the use of a land
parcel. Values are assigned by use of the Trip Generation Manual, published by the
Institute of Transportation Engineers.

“Single-family residential parcel” means any parcel of land containing a single-family
dwelling unit.

“Storm sewer drainage system” means all manmade storm sewer facilities and
conveyances, and natural stormwater systems owned or maintained by the city that store,
control, treat, and/or convey stormwater.

“Storm sewer facilities” means any facility, improvement, development, or property made for
controlling stormwater quantity and quality.

“Stormwater” means water produced by storms, surface drainage, snow and ice melt, and
other water handled by the storm sewer drainage system.

“Stormwater Design Standards Manual” means Riverton City Stormwater Design Standards
Manual maintained by the engineering division and approved by the city engineer.

“Stormwater utility” or “utility” means the utility created by this chapter, which operates,
maintains, regulates, and improves storm sewer facilities and programs within Riverton City.
“Undeveloped parcel” means any parcel that has not been altered by grading, filling, or
construction. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-020.]

13.25.030 Stormwater utility created.
There is hereby created and established a stormwater utility and service charge rate
structure. The utility will have regulatory authority and responsibility for planning, design,
construction, maintenance, administration and operation of all city storm sewer
conveyances and facilities. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-030.]

13.25.040 Maintenance of city storm sewer facilities and assets.
The utility shall operate, maintain, and improve all existing city storm drainage facilities used
for the conveyance of stormwaters, through, under or over lands or watercourses, beginning
at a point where the stormwaters first enter the storm sewer system of the city and ending in
each instance at a point where the stormwaters exit from the system. Stormwater facilities
do not include government-owned streets or those storm sewer facilities operated and
maintained by, or for, the county or the state of Utah. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997
§ 14-5-040.]

13.25.050 Utility administration.
The storm sewer utility shall be administered by the city engineer. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A).
Code 1997 § 14-5-050.]

13.25.060 Service charge imposed.
All persons otherwise responsible for impervious surfaces within the city which contribute
runoff to the stormwater system or who otherwise use or benefit from the stormwater utility
of the city will be responsible for paying the stormwater utility fees. The base rate shall be
as set forth in the Riverton City fee schedule. ; provided, however, service charges may be
reduced up to 45 percent for impervious surface areas which are:

(1) Distant from the storm drainage system, such that the possibility of a future connection
to the system is remote; and

(2) Isolated from other impervious areas; and

(3) Adjacent to an undeveloped area of equal size, owned or controlled by the same
property owner, capable of absorbing the runoff from the impervious surfaces. Absorption
fields will require a perpetual drainage easement to be recorded with the Salt Lake County
recorder’s office. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-060.]
13.25.070 System of rates and charges.
(1) Service Fees Imposed. The city will impose storm sewer drainage fee rates and charges
on each parcel of real property within the city except Riverton-owned facilities, public streets
and stormwater facilities operated and maintained by or for the stormwater utility division,
the cSalt Lake County or the state of Utah. The charges shall fund the administration,
planning, design, construction, water quality programming, operation, maintenance, and
repair of existing and future stormwater flood control and water quality facilities.

(2) Methods of Determining Benefit from Contribution of Stormwater Utility.

           (a) All city users of residential and nonresidential land benefit from city
           management of stormwater systems. This benefit is derived from the following
           three activities:

               (i) a discharge component;

               (ii) pollution component; and

               (iii) a roadway use component. Contributions of stormwater from
           nonresidential parcels and residential parcels larger than duplexes have been
           ascertained through aerial photography and site plans by evaluating land surface
           and measuring the amount of impervious surface.

           (b) Contributions of stormwater from residential parcels have been ascertained
           by sampling the amount of residential impervious areas with the use of aerial
           photography, site plans, and GPS (global positioning systems).

(3) Method of Determining Service Fee Rates. Storm drainage service fees shall be
assessed on each parcel of real property within the city, except Riverton-owned facilities,
public streets and state or county stormwater facilities. A Base sService feeFee Rates shall
be set forth in the Riverton City fee schedule. The base service fee shall be and may be
differentiatedapplied to fit the use of the city stormwater system by each parcel of real
property within the city, according to the following formulaclassifications:

       (a) Stormwater Service Fee = DC*BR/3+PC*BR/3+RC*BR/3

       (b) the values used in the formula in subsection (a) of this section are defined as
follows:
BR = Base Rate

DC = Discharge Component, computed by the following formula: Idc*IA/HSU

IA = I mpervious area, e.g. asphalt, concrete, bare compacted ground and equal
engineering industry defined impervious surfaces.


Idc = Discharge reduction factor in accordance to site runoff management
investment in excess of minimum requirements. Reduction fee varies per Runoff
Discharge Reduction Fee Schedule.


Ipc = Pollution reduction factor in accordance to site pollution management
investment in excess of minimum requirements. Reduction fee varies per
Pollution Reduction Fee Schedule.


LUpf = Pollution factor for the following land uses, and assigned the following
numeric values: Residential- 1; Commercial- 1.39; Institutional- 1.39; and
Industrial- 2.31.


PC = Pollution Component, computed by the following formula:
PC=Ipc*LUpf*IA/HSU



RC = Roadway Use Component, computed by the following formula: RC=
(Veh/d)/Veh/dbu.


Veh/d = Vehicles per day per land use, including traffic bypass factor reductions,
as determined by the Trip Generation Manual, published by the Institute of
Transportation Engineers, or by site specific count in accordance to stormwater
service fee program.

Veh/dbu= ITE Vehicles per day base unit.

(a) Residential Parcels. Single-family residential parcels shall constitute one ERU
per month. Duplex parcels shall constitute two ERUs per month.
         (bc) Undeveloped Parcels. Notwithstanding the application described in
         subsection (3) of this section, Uundeveloped parcels shall have no charges
         assessed.

         (c) Stormwater management within the city. Other Parcels. Charges for all other
         parcels shall be computed by multiplying the total ERUs for a parcel by the
         monthly rate. Total ERUs are calculated by dividing total square feet of
         impervious surface by 2,744 (one ERU), rounded to the nearest whole number.

(4) Credits and Reduced Fees.

         (a) Eligibility. Utility fee credits are available to nonsingle-family residential
         parcels, which exceed stormwater management requirements for quantity or
         quality of stormwater runoff as outlined in the “Riverton City Stormwater Design
         Standards Manual.”

              (i) Developments, approved after January 19, 2009, must comply with the
              requirements of Chapter 13.20 RCC, Stormwater Ordinance. No credit shall
              be given for meeting these requirements. However, credits may be given for
              new developments with improvements or implemented BMPs, which exceed
              stormwater management requirements.

              (ii) Developments approved prior to January 19, 2009, may receive credits
              by reducing the quantity of stormwater runoff, or implementing best
              management practices (BMPs) to improve storm runoff quality, as described
              below.

         (b) Maximum Possible Credit. An analysis of the utility costs has determined that
         approximately 45 percent of planned expenditures are variable and directly
         related to stormwater flows and nonpoint source pollution. Fifty-five percent of the
         utility’s costs are fixed program expenditures not directly affected by fluctuations
         in flow or water quality. Nonsingle-family residential parcels may receive utility fee
         credits of up to 45 percent by (i) constructing or operating on-site facilities which
         reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff 25 percent, or (ii) implementing or
         continuing on-site source or treatment controls which improve the quality of the
         stormwater runoff 20 percent.
(bc) Credit for Reducing Discharge Component. Impervious surface size and the
design features of stormwater detention present on site are directly related to
volume runoff. A reduction of volume runoff by reduction of impervious surfaces,
or by installation of retention systems in excess of City design standard minimums
may entitle a land owner to a proportionate reduction in fees allocable to the
Discharge Component. The amount of credit given may be up to 100% of the
fees allocable to the Discharge Component.

Quantity of Stormwater Runoff.

     (i) Detention. Stormwater detention facilities hold runoff for a period of time
     and release it at a controlled rate to the storm drainage system. Utility fee
     credits may be given to parcel owners who install facilities to detain storm
     runoff to a discharge rate lower than that specified in the “Riverton City
     Stormwater Design Standards Manual” in cubic feet per second per acre
     (cfs)/acre. The amount of credit is proportional to the discharge rate, based
     on the following formula:

                     Percent of Fee Credit = 25 [(D-q) / D]

     Where:


     25 = Percentage representing costs for utility’s improvement program.


     D = Maximum allowable stormwater discharge rate from a parcel in cubic feet per
     second per acre (cfs/acre).


     q = Peak stormwater discharge rate from a parcel in cfs/acre.

     (ii) Retention. Retention facilities hold water until it evaporates or infiltrates
     into the ground. On parcels where the city engineer determines retention is
     required, the maximum credit for reducing stormwater runoff and improving
     water quality is 45 percent.

(cd) Credit for Reducing Pollution ComponentImproving Stormwater Quality. A
reduction of runoff pollution in excess of City design standard minimums may
entitle a land owner to a proportionate reduction in fees allocable to the Pollution
Component. Methods deployed or installed to reduce runoff pollution must
Nonsingle-family developments may qualify for stormwater quality credit by
implementing source or treatment controls, which exceed stormwater
management requirements in force at the time of development approval. These
source or treatment controls are known as best management practices (BMPs)
applicable in whole or in part to specific types of businesses or land uses. The
guidelines for BMPs within Riverton City are identified in the “Stormwater Design
Standards Manual.” The amount of the quality credit may be up to 100 20 percent
of the total feepollution component. based on:

     (i) The number of best management practices which are directly applicable
     to the property; and

     (ii) The number of those applicable best management practices that the
     property owner has implemented on the site and which have been approved
     by the city engineer. This credit will be based on the value assigned to the
     implemented BMPs by the city engineer or a designee during a review of the
     credit application.

(iii) Credit for Regional Stormwater Quantity Mitigation. Nonresidential parcels
with stormwater facilities, that serve the city’s regional stormwater needs, as
prescribed by the city engineer, and utilize methods that meet the city’s design
and maintenance standards, may be eligible for a utility fee credit. The credit may
be granted, if property owners have not already been compensated for
constructing and maintaining such facilities, through impact fee offsets or
reimbursements. Fee reduction will be determined by the city engineer based on
prorated share of nondevelopment benefit.

(d) Credit for Roadway use Reduction. Credit may be awarded to reduction in
roadway use by comparing site specific traffic counts with the traffic count
assigned to the applicable land use under the Trip Generation Manual, published
by the Institute of Transportation Engineers, and awarding proportionate
reductions, where appropriate, to sites showing traffic generation data which is
below that assigned by the Trip Generation Manual. The amount of credit given
may be up to 100% of fees allocable of the roadway use component.

(div) Credit Requests. The owner of a parcel, or agent, must make application for
utility fee credit to the city engineer. If a request for mitigation credit is granted, the
          credit shall be applied to all charges from the time of the appealed billing, and will
          be reflected on the next billing.

          (ev) Low Income Relief. A single-family residential parcel owner who qualifies for
          the city’s low income relief, as determined by the city council and set forth by
          established city policy for low income relief, may also be eligible for a reduction in
          the service charge for their parcel. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-
          070.]

13.25.080 Billing and collection.
(1) Utility Enterprise Fund. This chapter creates the stormwater utility fund. All revenues
received from storm drainage user fees shall be placed in the enterprise fund as a
designated fund, to be left separate and apart from all other city funds. The collection,
accounting, and expenditure of all stormwater utility funds shall be in accordance with the
Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act.

(2) Billing. The city shall bill, or cause to be billed, property owners for stormwater drainage
utility services. Fees and charges shall be considered delinquent if not paid as determined
by the procedures established by the city and will be a debt to the city, which shall be
subject to recovery in a civil action. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-080.]

13.25.090 Appeal of charges.
Any nonresidential customer who disagrees with the storm drainage user fee for his or her
parcel may apply to the city engineer for a user fee adjustment. The adjustment request
must state the grounds for adjustment and must be filed in writing with the city engineer no
later than 30 days after receipt of billing. The city engineer shall review the request and
basis for user charges to determine whether an error was made in the calculation or
application of the fee. The city engineer may approve an adjustment to the fee.

An appeal of a city engineer’s decision may be brought before the city manager within 30
days after the date of the city engineer’s decision. The decision of the city manager shall be
final and conclusive.

If an appeal of charges is successful, credit will be applied to all charges from the time of
the appealed billing, and will be reflected on a future billing after the appeal is granted. [Ord.
10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 14-5-090.]

13.25.100 Annual report to stormwater utility customers.
The city’s stormwater utility, acting through the citizen’s stormwater management advisory
committee, shall cause to be completed an annual report on the stormwater utility which, if
accepted, shall be presented for approval by the city council. This report shall summarize
the financial activities of the utility and the major areas of expenditure, field activities,
accomplishments, and the upcoming year’s priorities. [Ord. 10-08 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997
§ 14-5-100.]
