(UT Jan2020)                                                                                Louis Lopez
Account #:37805496284                                                                        C/C: 11431
Service ID #:966440317001                                                            Request #: 6927729
Monthly                                                                                Contract #:

                                 GENERAL SERVICE CONTRACT
                                     (1000 KVA OR LESS)
                                           between
                                  ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                             and
                                       RIVERTON CITY


This General Service Contract (“Contract”), dated January 14, 2021, is between Rocky Mountain
Power, an unincorporated division of PacifiCorp (“Company”), and Riverton City (“Customer”), for
electric service for Customer’s traffic signal operation at or near 13200 S 4050 W. Riverton, Utah.

Company's filed tariffs (the “Electric Service Schedules” and the “Electric Service Regulations”) and
the rules of the Utah Public Service Commission (“Commission”), as they may be amended from
time to time, regulate this Contract and are incorporated in this Contract. In the event of any conflict
between this Contract and the Electric Service Schedules or the Electric Service Regulations, such
schedule and rules shall control. They are available for review at Customer’s request.

1.    Delivery of Power. Company will provide 120/240 volt, single-phase electric service to the
      Customer facilities.

2.    Contract Demand. The demand in kVA that Customer requires to meet its load
      requirement and Company agrees to supply and have available for delivery to Customer,
      shall be 5 kVA (diversified, based on Customer's submitted load prior to the signing of this
      Contract)(the “Contract Demand”).

      After 36 months of service the Company may reduce Contract Demand to the maximum
      recorded and billed demand in the previous 36 months. The reduction in Contract Demand
      shall become effective thirty (30) days after the Company provides notice.

      Within fifteen (15) days of Customer’s written request for capacity above the Contract
      Demand, Company shall advise Customer in writing whether the additional power and
      energy is currently available, or if not currently available, initiate the processes to determine
      the costs to make it available.

  3. Extension Costs. Company agrees to invest $1,276.80 (the “Extension Allowance”) to fund
     a portion of the cost of the improvements (the “Improvements”) as per tariff. Customer
     agrees to pay Company the estimated construction costs in excess of the Extension
     Allowance (“Customer Advance”). Customer has paid for engineering, design, or other
     advance payment for Company’s facilities in the amount of $0.00, which amount is reflected
     in the balance due in the Customer selected option below. Customer trenching, conduit,
     vault and/or right-of-way (“TCVR”), when provided for Company lines and equipment, may
     also be subject to refund as calculated using Company standard costs. (Customer must
     initial selected option on the blank space at the beginning of the option and pay the balance
     due given in that option.)

      ___     Refund Option. The total Customer Advance for this work is $38,047.20, and the
              balance due is $38,047.20, and Customer remains eligible for refunds. Company


                                                1 of 5
           will refund part of the Customer Advance and TCVR if additional customers connect
           to the Improvements within ten (10) years of the date Company is ready to supply
           service. Company will refund 20% of the refundable Customer Advance and TCVR
           allocable to the shared Improvements for four additional applicants. Company will
           try to inform Customer when a refund is due. However, in the event Company is
           unable to locate Customer or has not identified that a refund is due, Customer is
           responsible for requesting a refund within twenty-four (24) months of the
           additional applicant connecting to the Improvements.

   ___     Contract Administration Credit Option. Customer chooses to receive a Contract
           Administration Credit of $250 and waives their right to refunds should additional
           applicants connect to the Improvements. Accordingly, the balance due is
           $37,797.20.

4. Contract Minimum Billing. Customer agrees to pay a contract minimum billing (the
   ”Contract Minimum Billing”) during the first sixty (60) months beginning from the date
   Company is ready to supply service. The Contract Minimum Billing shall be the greater of:
   (1) the Customer’s monthly bill; or, (2) $90.89 (the monthly facilities charge) plus eighty
   percent (80%) of the Customer’s monthly bill. Billings will be based on Rate Schedule
   No. 15 and superseding schedules. Company will reduce the minimum charges by the
   amount of the facilities charges associated with refunds due from additional applicants
   connecting to the Improvements.

5. Effective. This Contract will expire unless Customer signs and returns an original of this
   Contract along with any required payment to Company within ninety (90) days of the Contract
   date shown on page 1 of this Contract.

6. Contract Minimum Billing Term. This Contract becomes binding when both Company
   and Customer have signed it, and will remain in effect for five (5) years following the date
   when Company is ready to supply service (the “Term”).

   In the event Customer terminates service or defaults (which results in termination of service)
   within the first five (5) years of this Contract, Customer shall be responsible for paying the
   Contract Minimum Billing for the remainder of the Term.

   If Customer is not ready to receive service from Company within one-hundred fifty (150)
   days of the date Customer signs this Contract, then Company may terminate this Contract.
   The Customer’s Advance will be applied to Company costs incurred for design, permitting
   and other associated Contract costs. However, if Company has installed Improvements so
   that Company is ready to supply service, but Customer is not ready to receive service from
   Company within such one-hundred fifty (150) day period, then the failure of Customer to
   receive service may be treated as a Customer default, and Customer shall be responsible
   for paying the Contract Minimum Billing for remainder of the Term.

7. Customer Obligations. Customer agrees to:
   a)    Provide legal rights-of-way to Company, at no cost to Company, using Company’s
         standard forms. This includes rights-of-way on Customer’s property and/or third party
         property and any permits, fees, etc. required to cross public lands;
   b)    Prepare the route to Company’s specifications;
   c)    Install all Customer provided trench, conduit, equipment foundations, or excavations
         for equipment foundations within the legal rights-of-ways; and,


                                            2 of 5
   d)    Comply with all of Company’s tariffs, procedures, specifications and requirements.

8. Special Provisions: None

9. Underground Facilities. If service is provided by an underground line extension, Customer
   will provide, or Company will provide at Customer’s expense: all trenching and backfilling,
   imported backfill material, conduit and duct, and furnish and install all equipment
   foundations, as designed by Company. Company may abandon in place any underground
   cables installed under this Contract that are no longer useful to Company.

   Customer warrants that all Customer provided trench and excavations for equipment
   foundations, and Customer installed conduit and equipment foundations are installed within
   legal rights-of-way, and conform to the specifications in Company’s Electric Service
   Requirements Manual, and other specifications as otherwise provided by Company. In the
   event Customer fails to comply with the foregoing, Customer shall be liable for the cost to
   Company for relocating the facilities within a legal right-of-way, acquiring right-of-way for
   Company facilities, repair or replacement of improperly installed conduit or foundations, and
   paying costs for damages that may arise to any third party as a result of Company facilities
   being located outside of a legal right-of-way. The provisions of this paragraph 9 shall survive
   the termination of this Contract.

10. Design, Construction, Ownership and Operation. Company shall design, construct,
    install, and operate the Improvements in accordance with Company’s standards. Company
    will own the Improvements, together with Company’s existing electric utility facilities that
    serve or will serve Customer. Construction of the Improvements shall not begin until (1) both
    Company and Customer have executed (signed) this Contract, and (2) all other
    requirements prior to construction have been fulfilled, such as permits, payments received,
    inspection, etc. Any delays by the Customer concerning site preparation and right-of-way
    acquisition or trenching, inspection, permits, etc. may correspondingly delay completion of
    the Improvements.

   Company warrants that its work in constructing and maintaining the Improvements shall be
   consistent with prudent utility practices.           COMPANY DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER
   WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
   WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND
   SIMILAR WARRANTIES. Company’s liability for breach of warranty, defects in the
   Improvements, or installation of the Improvements shall be limited to repair or replacement
   of any non-operating or defective portion of the Improvements or Company’s other electric
   utility facilities. Under no circumstances shall Company be liable for other economic losses,
   including but not limited to consequential damages. Company shall not be subject to any
   liability or damages for inability to provide service to the extent that such failure shall be due
   to causes beyond the reasonable control of Company.

   No other party, including Customer, shall have the right to operate or maintain Company’s
   electric utility facilities or the Improvements. Customer shall not have physical access to
   Company’s electric utility facilities or the Improvements and shall engage in no activities on
   or related to Company’s electric utility facilities or the Improvements.

11. Payments. All bills shall be paid by the date specified on the bill, and late charges shall be
    imposed upon any delinquent amounts. Company reserves the right to require customer
    payments be sent by EDI or wire transfer. If Customer disputes any portion of Customer's
    bill, Customer shall pay the total bill and shall designate the disputed portion. Company
    shall decide the dispute within sixty (60) days after Customer's notice of dispute. Any refund

                                             3 of 5
   Company determines Customer is due shall bear interest at the rate then specified by the
   Commission or, if no rate is specified, the then effective prime rate as quoted in The Wall
   Street Journal.

   Company may request deposits from Customer to the extent permitted under the applicable
   Electric Service Regulations and the applicable Electric Service Schedule. In the event of a
   default by Customer in any of its obligations, Company may exercise any or all of its rights
   and remedies with respect to any such deposits.

12. Furnishing Information and Deposits. Customer represents that all information it has
    furnished or shall furnish to Company in connection with this Contract shall be accurate and
    complete in all material respects. Company will base its decision with respect to credit,
    deposits, allowances or any other material matter on information furnished under this section
    by Customer. Should such information be inaccurate or incomplete, Company shall have
    the right to revoke or modify this Contract and/or its decision to reflect the determination
    Company would have made had Company received accurate and complete information.
    Company may request deposits, for the purpose of guaranteeing payment of electric service
    bills, as permitted under the Company’s Utah Electric Service Regulation No. 9.

13. Governing Law; Venue. All provisions of this Contract and the rights and obligations of
    the parties hereto shall in all cases be governed by and construed in accordance with the
    laws of the State of Utah applicable to contracts executed in and to be wholly performed in
    Utah by persons domiciled in the State of Utah. Each party hereto agrees that any suit,
    action or proceeding in connection with this Contract may only be brought before the
    Commission, the Federal courts located within the State of Utah, or state courts of the State
    of Utah, and each party hereby consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of such forums (and of
    the appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding.

14. Assignment. The obligations under this Contract are obligations at all times of Customer,
    and may not be assigned without Company’s consent except in connection with a sale,
    assignment, lease or transfer of Customer’s interest in Customer’s facility. Any such
    assignment also shall be subject to (i) such successor’s qualification as a customer under
    Company’s policies, the Electric Service Regulations, and the applicable Electric Service
    Schedule, and (ii) such successor being bound by this Contract and assuming the obligation
    of Customer from the date of assignment, which may be evidenced by written agreement of
    such successor or other means acceptable to Company. Company may condition this
    assignment by the posting by the successor of a deposit as permitted under the applicable
    Electric Service Regulations and the applicable Electric Service Schedule.

   Company may at any time assign its rights and delegate its obligations under this Contract
   to any: affiliate; successor in interest; corporation; or any other business entity in conjunction
   with a merger, consolidation or other business reorganization to which Company is a party.

15. Remedies; Waiver. Either party may exercise any or all of its rights and remedies under
    this Contract, the applicable Electric Service Regulations, the applicable Electric Service
    Schedule and under any applicable laws, rules and regulations. No provision of this
    Contract, the Electric Service Regulations, or the applicable Electric Service Schedule shall
    be deemed to have been waived unless such waiver is expressly stated in writing and signed
    by the waiving party.

16. Attorneys’ Fees. If any suit or action arising out of or related to this Contract is brought by
    any party, the prevailing party or parties shall be entitled to recover the costs and fees
    (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, the fees and costs of experts and

                                             4 of 5
      consultants, copying, courier and telecommunication costs, and deposition costs and all
      other costs of discovery) incurred by such party or parties in such suit or action, including,
      without limitation, any post-trial or appellate proceeding, or in the collection or enforcement
      of any judgment or award entered or made in such suit or action.

 17. Waiver of Jury Trial. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH OF THE
     PARTIES HERETO WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN
     RESPECT OF LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR
     IN CONNECTION WITH THIS CONTRACT. EACH PARTY FURTHER WAIVES ANY
     RIGHT TO CONSOLIDATE ANY ACTION IN WHICH A JURY TRIAL HAS BEEN WAIVED
     WITH ANY OTHER ACTION IN WHICH A JURY TRIAL CANNOT BE OR HAS NOT BEEN
     WAIVED.

 18. Entire Agreement. This Contract contains the entire agreement of the parties with respect
     to the subject matter, and replaces and supersedes in their entirety all prior agreements
     between the parties related to the same subject matter. This Contract may be modified
     only by a subsequent written amendment or agreement executed by both parties.

RIVERTON CITY                                           ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER

By                                                      By
         signature                                               signature

                                                        Chris Carpenter                 Manager
 NAME (type or print legibly)   TITLE                    NAME (type or print legibly)    TITLE


 DATE                                                    DATE



Customer’s Mailing Address for Executed                 Rocky Mountain Power’s Mailing Address
Contract                                                for Executed Contract

                                                        12840 Pony Express Rd
 ATTENTION OF                                            ADDRESS

12830 S. Rewood Rd                                      Draper, UT 84020
 ADDRESS                                                 CITY, STATE, ZIP

Riverton, UT 84065                                      louis.lopez@rockymountain power.net
 CITY, STATE, ZIP                                        EMAIL ADDRESS


 EMAIL ADDRESS




                                               5 of 5
