                                      City Council Meeting Agenda
                                             March 18, 2025


PRESENTER:                Jason Lethbridge

                          Resolution No. 25-16 - Second Amendment Mountain View Place
ITEM:                     Development Agreement, SALT Development, Adjusting the Allowed Number
                          of Residential Units to 288 - Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director

SUMMARY:

This item is a amendment to the MVV Development Agreement to facilitate a minor change to the
previously approved Village Lofts Apartments located in the Mountain View Village Development. This
project was approved as shown, with 7 stories and 282 residential units. The original site plan included
16,900-sf of commercial space on the ground floor. That site plan was subsequently amended to
remove most of that commercial and add additional units into that space, with a small retail corner space
remaining. As the development group has been finalizing plans for construction, the decision was made
in consultation with the Master Development group for Mountain View Village to eliminate the remaining
proposed commercial space from the building, converting that space into six (6) additional residential
units. As the development agreement currently limits the total residential units to 282, the developer has
proposed an amendment to that agreement to raise the number to 288 to accommodate the additional
six units. The footprint of the building remains the same, and no changes are required to the civil design
package for the project. The parking requirements also do no increase, as the commercial space
required a larger number of stalls than the resulting residential square footage. No additional parking is
required beyond what is proposed.

FISCAL IMPACT:            N/A

FUNDING SOURCE:           N/A

ATTACHMENTS:

Resolution No. 25-16 - 2nd Amendment to MVV Development Agreement.pdf
25-16_Salt_Development__DA___Final_Site_Plan_Staff_Report.pdf

RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:


On March 13, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this item. No public
comment was offered, and a record of motion is included below. The Planning Commission voted to
recommend the following motion to approve this item:



I move the City Council adopt Resolution 25-16, authorizing the Mayor to execute the 2nd Amendment to
                                                                                                             1
the Mountain View Place Development Agreement increasing the number of allowed units to 288.




                                                                                               2
