                                      City Council Meeting Agenda
                                              May 20, 2025


PRESENTER:                 Jason Lethbridge

                           Ordinance No. 25-15 - DAI Development Agreement, Amending Zoning from
                           R-3 to C-R, Uses limited to Storage Units, and Preliminary Site Plan Approval
ITEM:                      for Approx. 5.63 acres Located at 12270 S 4000 W., Applicant- Krisel Travis
                           & Joe Salisbury representing DAI Utah - Jason Lethbridge, Development
                           Services Director

SUMMARY:

This item is a proposed development agreement for approximately 5.63 acres located at 12270 South
4000 West. The property is currently zoned R-3, and was subdivided in 2008 as a residential
subdivision. Partial work was completed on infrastructure before the project went defunct. It has
remained subdivided but undeveloped since that time. The applicant, DAI Utah, is proposing
development of a storage unit facility on the property, which requires a rezone of the property to
Commercial Regional. However, given the unique circumstances of the property, with an unbuilt but
dedicated public right-of-way and divided residential lots, a standard rezone request was determined by
the City to be insufficient to address all issues and concerns. The applicant has, working with the City
Attorney’s Office and City Staff, proposed a Development Agreement which would change the zoning of
the property to C-R but limit the use of the property to storage units, approve a preliminary site plan for
the layout of the site, and would also serve as the basis for addressing the existing conditions of the
property and dedicated right-of-way.
The property directly to the north of this site is a meetinghouse for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
Day Saints. To the south, the properties are zoned Commercial Regional, and are existing storage
facilities. There are two existing homes adjacent to 4000 West that are not part of the project area, and
one residential lot is preserved behind one of the existing homes as that parcel is owned by the same
property owner as the home.
The Development Agreement, as indicated above, will change the zoning to Commercial Regional (C-R)
but includes the limitation to the “Intended Use” only, which is self-storage and outdoor vehicle storage.
 The plan includes areas for RV storage, which is typical for self-storage facilities. The Agreement also
includes what will function as a preliminary plan approval, similar to a Master Site Plan, and design
information addressing elements of the site and structures. The Agreement limits the maximum height
within the development to two stories. The design package shows materials and architectural massing
of the buildings. However, final Site Plan approval will be required, with approval by the Planning
Commission in a future hearing.

FISCAL IMPACT:             NA

FUNDING SOURCE:            NA

ATTACHMENTS:

                                                                                                              1
25-15 DAI Development Agreement Staff Report.pdf
Ordinance No. 25-15 - DAI Development Agreement.pdf
Development Agreement - Riverton Storage CC 5.6.25 (CAA Edit 2025.05.15) (CLEAN).pdf
Development Agreement - Riverton Storage CC 5.6.25 (CAA Edit 2025.05.15) (REDLINE).pdf

RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:

On April 24, 2025, the Planning Commission held the final of several hearings to review this application.
 Minutes from those meetings are included below. The Planning Commission voted to recommend
approval, with a condition that allowed building heights be further clarified in the agreement. That has
been addressed. The Commission recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 25-15, the “DAI Utah Development Agreement,” for property at
12270 South 4000 West, amending zoning from R-3 to C-R and approving preliminary site and design
drawings, with all terms and conditions of the Development Agreement as shown in Exhibit “A”, with the
following modifications:




                                                                                                            2
