                            MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 15, 2020
Subject:         Ordinance 20-22, Amendments to Title 18.145, Automobile Parking,
                 Amending Landscaped Island Requirement in Front of Certain Commercial
                 Buildings, Amendment Proposed by Riverton City



On August 13, 2020, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this
proposed text amendment, and voted to recommend approval of the amendment. A record
of motion from that meeting is attached below. The Planning Commission recommended
the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #20-22, amending Section 18.145.050, allowing an
ADA access aisle to replace a required landscape island along certain commercial building
fronts, as shown on Exhibit “A”.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Zoning Text Change proposed by Riverton City. The Automobile
parking ordinance and our commercial landscaping codes direct parking lots to be developed to
include significant shading of parking lots. One requirement that is very effect in most situations
is a landscape island roughly the same size as a parking stall every 10-spaces, with at least one
tree planted in the island.

However, when parking fronts onto a building of about 100 to 150 feet long, the landscape island
every 10-stalls requirement produces less desirable outcomes. In these scenarios the required
landscape island would be centered where the designers often wish to place the ADA access and
parking. The adjustment designers make is to add an island after one or two stalls on one side
of the parking. This creates an unbalanced site and takes away prime parking adjacent to the
building.

Staff is proposing a slight change to the “Landscaping in parking areas” ordinance so that building
frontages less than 150-ft may use the ADA access aisle that is required next to ADA parking
stalls as a substitute for the landscape island. This would only apply to parking adjacent to the
building.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of this text amendment, and staff concurs with
that recommendation.


Report by: TJP
9/9/2020
Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1. Code changes for:
                 a. 18.145.050 (5)




            Proposed Changes to Parking Islands on Building Fronts

18.145.050 Landscaping in parking areas.
The following regulations shall apply to landscaping of off-street parking areas:

 (5) Islands within Parking Areas. On double rows of parking stalls, there shall be one 40-foot by nine-foot
landscaped island on each end of all parking rows, plus one 40-foot by nine-foot landscaped island to be
placed at a minimum of every twentieth parking space. On single rows of parking or where it abuts a
sidewalk, there shall be one 20-foot by nine-foot landscaped island a minimum of every 10 spaces., except
where parking abuts a building frontage of not more than 150-feet in which case the Planning Commission
may allow the ADA access aisle adjacent to ADA parking spaces to replace a required landscape island.




Report by: TJP
9/9/2020
