                            MEMORANDUM
 To:           Honorable Mayor and City Council
 From:         Planning Department
 Date:         June 12, 2025
 Subject:      Ordinance 25-20, “Dansie Rezone” amending the General Plan to Low
               Density Residential and rezoning approximately 2.32-acres to the R-3 Zone
               for property located near 3100 West 13400 South. Applicant- Alan Prince of
               MP&G LLC.


 On June 12, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this proposed
 rezone. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted to
 recommend approval of this rezone application, with the following recommended motion:

 I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 25-20 amending the General Plan to the “Low Density
 Residential” General Plan designation and rezoning the 2.32 acres located at approximately 3100
 West 13400 South to R-3 (single-family residential, 14,000-sf minimum lot size).

 Background


 This is a public hearing for a General Plan Amendment and Rezone application brought by the
 applicant, Alan Prince, representing MP&G, LLC. This request covers two (2) parcels, both of
 which have the RR-22 Zoning Designation. If approved, this application would place all the
 subject property in the same Zone of R-3.

 The subject property is approximately 2.32-acres located near 3100 West and 13400 South, on
 the north side of 13400 South. The two (2) parcels are identified as parcel numbers:

         Parcel Id #                         Address                         Acreage
        27-33-351-004                   3082 W. 13400 South                    0.93
        27-33-351-050                   3112 W. 13400 South                    1.39

 Both subject parcels are currently zoned RR-22 (Rural Residential, ½-acre with animal rights).
 Adjoing properties to the east and west also have the same RR-22 Zone. To the north the Dansie
 Estates Subdivision (2017) has R-3 Zoning. The area south of 13400 South Street has R-4
 Zoning. It should be noted that although the three properties adjacent on the east side have
 RR-22 Zoning, none of the 3 lots meets the ½-acre minimum requirement to have large animals.

The General Plan designates these two properties differently. The western parcel (27-33-351-
050) is designated as “Low Density Residential” which corresponds with the R-3 zone, from there
the Low Density Residential designation extends west along 13400 South all the way to 3600 West.
The eastern parcel (27-33-351-040) is designated as “Estate Density Residential” which
corresponds with the RR-22 Zone. The Estate Density Residential designation extends east to
2700 West. Adjusting the General Plan designation to match the zoning is good practice, and an
adjustment of one parcel on the designation boundary keeps with the overall vision of the General
Plan for the area.

If approved, the applicant has expressed an interest in developing a small subdivision with a private
lane. Issues about the private lane, subdivision layout, drainage, irrigation water and fencing
would be identified and resolved during the subdivision process, and in future Planning
Commission Meetings.

The Planning Commission has forwarded this application to the City Council with a
recommendation for approval. Staff concurs with that recommendation.



 Public Notices and Response
 Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s
 webpage. There was one response from the Dansie’s to the west requesting consideration for
 fencing, which will be addressed once a development application is submitted for the property.
 The message is attached to this report.

 Attachments

 The following items are attached:

         1.   Rezone Application.
         2.   Area Zoning Map.
         3.   Area General Plan Map.
         4.   Public Comments.
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               6
June 12, 2025



      4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
             applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
             Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.     No business activity may take place outside the home before 7:00 a.m.
             or after 7:00 p.m.

      6.     Applicant may employ one non-resident employee. Employee must
             use off-street parking.

      7.     Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of the garage space for
             business activities.

      8.     Applicant must use roasting equipment with built-in air filtration that
             does not create outside odors.

Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion.               The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.


      B.     “DANSIE 2025 REZONE,” PLZ-25-4005, AN APPLICATION TO AMEND
             THE GENERAL PLAN AND REZONE APPROXIMATELY 2.32 ACRES
             LOCATED AT 3082 AND 3112 WEST 13400 SOUTH FROM RR-22
             (SINGLE-FAMLY ESTATE-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL) TO R-3 (SINGLE-
             FAMILY LOW-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL).

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and stated that when considering
a rezone, the Planning Commission is to determine whether what is proposed is good for
the City and act as a recommending body to the City Council. Only a reasonable reason
is needed to recommend approval or denial. The subject property is part of the Dansie
Family property for which a rezone was completed in 2015. Notice was sent to neighbors
within 1,000 feet. An aerial view of the property was presented along with the rezone and
subdivision done in 2014, 2015, and 2016 to R3. The applicants would like to rezone
from R-22 to R3. The General Plan and Zoning Map were displayed. The Zoning Map
provides the current rules regarding what can be done with property in Riverton City and
aligns with City Code. The General Plan in 80% of the City matches the zoning. In other
areas, the City Council has said based on a recommendation from the Planning
Commission, that there are areas where they would consider changing the zoning. The
General Plan alerts the property owners and developers that the City may consider
making a change.

The subject property is designated Estate Density and Low Density in the General Plan
Map. Low Density is the equivalent of the R-3 Zone, and Estate Density is equivalent to
R-1 or RR-22, with 0.5-acre or larger lots and animal rights. Three neighboring properties
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
June 12, 2025


are zoned RR-22 but are nonconforming parcels of less than 0.5 acres. Mr. Prestwich
reported that, although not required, City Staff recommended amending the General Plan
in conjunction with the rezone request. The primary difference between the current RR-
22 Zone and the proposed R-3 Zone are lot size and animal rights. RR-22 includes animal
rights for 0.5-acre or larger lots.

Mr. Prestwich reported that two public comments were received from neighboring
property owners. The first letter was included in the Meeting Packet and requested an
eight-foot masonry fence along the shared property line. He reminded the Commission
that fencing would be reviewed during the Subdivision Plat process.

After the Planning Commission made a recommendation to approve or deny the
application, new notices would be sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject
property informing them of the date and location of the City Council meeting where the
application would be considered. The City Council could choose to follow the
Commission’s recommendation or take other action. If the zone change was approved,
the Applicant would submit a new application for a private lane, followed by an application
for a subdivision, both of which would be noticed to property owners within 300 feet of the
subject property.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that
fencing and other site issues would be reviewed with the Subdivision Plat application.
City Code requires a six-foot masonry fence between non-animal rights and animal rights
properties, and he was unsure if the Planning Commission could require additional height.
He would discuss the matter with City Attorney, Ryan Carter prior to bringing it back
before the Commission. If the subdivision is less than two acres in size, the Planning
Commission could also decide that a solid masonry fence is not required.

The Applicant, Alan Prince of MP&G LLC stated that he has developed many infill projects
in his career. A project to the east of the subject property has a private lane that services
three homes, whereas his project would have a total of five homes. Other aspects of the
subdivisions, including home and lot size, are very similar. They intend to install a 25-
foot private lane that conforms with all City and County requirements. The shoulder will
be landscaped, and a fence will be installed along the Dansie property line to match the
existing fencing. The two existing parcels would be subdivided into six lots, but the Dansie
parcel would not be part of the subdivision. They will build a home for the Dansies’ son
on one lot, with single-family homes on the remaining four lots.

Commissioner Cannon commented that the trend is for smaller lots, but the future
subdivision would have approximately 0.33-acre lots.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prince stated that the subdivision will be
1.82 acres, including the private lane, with five 13,000 to 14,000-square-foot lots.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
June 12, 2025


In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Prince clarified that they will
build a home for the Dansies’ son on the lot directly behind the existing home, with four
additional lots to the west. The existing home will not be part of the new subdivision. He
then discussed fencing and indicated that the property owners to the west prefer that their
vinyl fencing remain, while Mrs. Dansie has indicated that she would prefer masonry
fencing on the eastern property line.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Anna Davis lives west of the subject property. She previously lived on a 0.50-acre lot and
everyone in the subdivision utilized their full lots. She now lives on a 0.33-acre lot. She
wanted to ensure that the lots were not smaller because it could lower her property values
and increase traffic.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich clarified that the
letter received from Liz Dansie was not relevant to the rezone request as it pertained to
fencing. Commissioner Rushton stated that he believes the property is an example of a
good infill project and is in line with properties to the north and east. He agreed with
Commissioner Cannon that large lots are rarely fully utilized.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, it was clarified that the private
lane will be 25 feet. City Code does not restrict the maximum number of lots on a private
lane, but Fire Code restricts it to 30 without a second access. To encourage infill
development, the City Council amended City Code to allow the area of a private lane to
be included in the gross lot size. When the Subdivision Plat comes before the Planning
Commission, it will specify the net lot acreage because setbacks are determined by net,
not gross acreage.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich reported that a 0.33-acre lot is
approximately 14,000 square feet.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of application PLZ-25-4005, “Dansie 2025 Rezone,” by amending the General Plan
to include both parcels in the “Low-Density Residential” General Plan designation
and rezoning the two subject properties to R-3 (single-family residential, 14,0000-
square-foot minimum lot size.) Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     “MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 27”, PLZ-25-8004, A FINAL/DETAIL PLAN
             FOR 41 RESIDENTIAL UNITS ON APPROXIMATELY 6.5 ACRES
             LOCATED NEAR 13800 SOUTH SENTINEL RIDGE IN THE SLR ZONE.
 Received
   Public
Comment
From:           Liz Dansie
To:             Planning
Subject:        Rezoning of property 3082 / 3112 West 13400 South
Date:           Friday, June 6, 2025 1:48:23 PM


Dear Planning Commissioners,

I am writing about the proposed rezoning of property 3082 / 3112 West 13400 South from
RR-22 to R-3 Residential. Unfortunately, we have a long-planned vacation scheduled at the
same time as the public hearing, so we will be unable to attend. We would appreciate your
input and requests being noted this way.

My husband and I, and our son and daughter-in-law, are both adjacent property owners (to the
West) and do not object to the proposed rezoning as long as the development is developed in
the same manner as recent subdivisions in the area. We request that there be an 8-foot high
masonry wall separating the rezoned area from both our and our son's property. The
wall should match the other walls surrounding our property (running along the north
end of the property and also to the West of our home, which fronts 3200 West). This
would mean that an 8-foot masonry wall would need to run along the entire West side of
the rezoned development starting at 13400 South to the most northern corner of the
proposed rezoning. We still maintain farm animals (2 beef that we move between 2 pastures)
and the wall is necessary to protect the animals and our lifestyle from the new homes being
built. Raising beef has been part of the property and our lifestyle since we moved here in the
70s and is the only way to ensure we can continue our lifestyle and minimize the impact of the
new homes. We would appreciate your respect for the farm country that has always been in
Riverton - our acreage is a small piece that still retains that history and needs to be buffered
from new homes with a wall that matches the others.

Elizabeth & Ronald Dansie
3178 West 13400 South
801.450.2510

Clinton & JoAnna Dansie
3150 West 13400 South
801.455.4471
