                                      CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA

                                             June 29, 2020 at 8:00 AM
                                            12830 South Redwood Road,
                                                Riverton, UT 84065

Meeting Information

This City Meetings. link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where
you can review all items scheduled for review by the City Council.

Due to restrictions related to COVID-19, public attendance to this meeting may be limited in number. Audio and
video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Accompanying agenda documents will be available for public
review through the City website prior to the meeting. Audio and written minutes will be available following the
meeting. Citizen comment may be submitted via email to recorder@rivertonutah.gov or at e-comments at
City Meetings. All comments submitted up to Noon on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the City
Council.


1.    Call to Order

2.    Council Business

3.    Discussion/ Action Items

      3.a       Resolution No. 20-46 A Resolution Approving and Adopting A Litigation Settlement
                Agreement Between Riverton City and The Defendant in a Civil Action Filed by Riverton
                City and Herrriman City Against the Unified Police Department in the Third Judicial District
                Court, State of Utah, Case No. 190904012

                06-26-20 Resolution Approving Settlement Agreement with UPD.doc
                Riverton - UPD Settlement Agreement final.pdf

4.    Adjournment

Riverton City Hall is an ADA compliant facility. Individuals needing special accommodations or assistance during this meeting
shall notify the City Recorder’s Office at 801-208-3126 at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Accessible parking and
entrance is located on the south end of the building with elevator access to the Council Chambers located on the second floor.

                                                       Certificate of Posting
I, Virginia Loader, Riverton City Recorder, certify that, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting, the foregoing Agenda was
emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune, Deseret News and the Riverton Journal. A copy of the Agenda was also posted at Riverton
City Hall, on Riverton City’s Website at www.rivertonutah.gov, and on the Utah Public Meeting Notice Website at
http://pmn.utah.gov.

Dated this day of June 29, 2020



                                                                                                                                 1
