            RIVERTON CITY WORK SESSION / COUNCIL MEETING



FROM:          Ryan Carter
DATE:          September 30, 2020
SUBJECT:       Resolution Approving creation of Riverton Fire Service Area.



SUMMARY:

Riverton City has completed a lengthy process to create the Riverton Fire Service Area. The City
Council adopted a resolution No. 20-31 which formally commenced the process to begin the creation
of the Riverton Fire Service Area, or “RFSA” on May 5, 2020.

The City Council then held a public hearing on June 16, 2020 which allowed the public to ask
questions and obtain further information regarding the issues contained in resolution No.17-42,
pursuant to See: Utah Code Ann. §17B-1-210. This hearing also commenced the time for persons to
file protests against creation of the district if they so desired. The 60-day deadline to file protests
(following the August 15 public hearing) lapsed on August 15, 2020. Riverton City received no
protests from the public by this date, nor has the City received any protests afterward.

To perfect creation of the Riverton Fire Service Area, one of the remaining steps is to file an
appropriate local entity plat with the State of Utah, Office of the Lieutetant Governor. This is
ordinarily required to occur within 10 days of filing a resolution approving creation of the district.
See Utah Code Ann. §17B-1-215. Said districts, once approved commonly run into problems with
filing said plat within the 10 day deadline. Staff has done what it can to the date of this memorandum
to assure a smooth filing process but we don’t yet have the verification we need from Salt Lake
County to be fully assured. In a “worst case scenario,” an entity which cannot file a plat within the
10 day filing period simply needs to adopt another approval resolution to reset the filing period, and
the appropriate plat will be accepted by the LT. Governor’s Office at a later date.




                                                   1
FISCAL IMPACT:

N/A


ATTACHMENTS:         1.      Resolution and appropriate map of Service Area.


RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:

“I move the City Council adopt Resolution No. 20-62 approving creation of the Riverton Fire Service
Area.”




                                                 2
