                                        City Council Meeting Agenda
                                                June 16, 2026



PRESENTER:              Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director


ITEM:


Ordinance No. 26-16 - General Plan Amendment and Rezone of approximately 3.14-acre located at 13172
South Redwood Road. Changing the General Plan Designation to High Density Residential and the zoning
to RM-14. Applicant-Majestic Homes. - Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director


On May 14, 2026, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this application. Minutes from
that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission recommended denial, with the following
recommendation. For the Council’s convenience, a sample motion to approve is also included.
I move the City Council deny Ordinance 26-16, the proposed Majestic Homes Rezone,” thus keeping the
current General Plan Designation of Medium Density Residential and current Zoning of RR-22 and C-N.


SUMMARY:


This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant, Majestic Homes for 3.14-acres
located at 13172 South Redwood Road
The subject parcel is a corner property with frontage on three public streets. The property is vacant. The
zoning on the parcel is a combination of RR-22 and C-N. RR-22 is a single family residential zone with half-
acre lots and animal rights. C-N is the Neighborhood Commercial zone. The area zoning is mostly RR-22
with some C-N, C-PO, RM-6 and R-4 zoning in the area.
The current General Plan for the property is Medium Density Residential which corresponds with lot sizes
greater than 14,000-sf (1/3-acre). Most of the area is Medium Density Residential on the west side of
Redwood and Estate Density Residential on the east side of Redwood. Redwood, south of city hall has
historically been a boundary for big lots and historic Riverton, with changes on the east side only recently
being made to allow density less than ½-acre. The west side of Redwood has more diverse zoning, but
more cohesive General Plan of Medium Density Residential (min 10,000-sf lots) which is consistent with R-4
zoning.
The applicant is requesting the RM-14 zone which allows density up to 14 units per acre. The RM-14 Zone
also requires specific parking, guest parking, road widths setbacks, building separation and open
space. The result is that most proposed projects do not reach the maximum density. The applicants
concept plans show small clusters of townhomes mixed with open space resulting in a density of about 12
units per acre. This parcel has a unique setting with frontage on three public streets and unlike many other
infill projects it shares only three property lines with existing houses. With the available roadway
connections, there would not be access granted to Redwood Road. The applicant has submitted a concept
plan for the property, which, while helpful in demonstrating the applicant’s design for the property, is not part
of the approval and will not be binding if the rezone application is approved.


FISCAL IMPACT:          N/A


FUNDING SOURCE: N/A
