                                                                    Stewart Title of Utah, Inc.
                                                                    1518 Woodland Park Dr
                                                                    Layton, UT 84041
                                                                    (801) 774-5511 direct (801) 776-5262 fax
                                                                    gary.gurr@stewart.com




We appreciate your order for the title work on the property referenced below. Please find the attached
title commitment for your review which contains important information regarding this transactions.

                                           Questions?
When calling regarding this real estate transaction, please reference the following information:


             Escrow Officer:                      Gary Gurr
             Email Address:                       gary.gurr@stewart.com
             File Number:                         1485606
             Property Address:                    13680 South 1360 West, Riverton, UT 84065
             Seller                               Riverton City
             Buyer/Borrower:                      Verizon Wireless

Your review of the report will eliminate any surprises at the closing table, allow time to address any
problems which may require your attention, provide up to date facts which may affect your clients, and
assure a smooth closing.

Your business is very valuable to us. We are staffed and ready to provide you with the best service
possible. If we ever fall short of your expectations, please notify us immediately as we are committed to
your success.


Sincerely,


Gary Gurr


                                               NOTICE
Due to change to the Good Funds requirements per Utah Code 31A-23a-406, all funds received by
the Company must be made by bank wire transfer.
                        WARNING!
                           WIRE FRAUD IS ON THE RISE
Cyber criminals are using email compromise schemes to target companies and individuals purchasing
property. These schemes include, but are not limited to, fake emails from attorneys, real estate agents or
title agencies to request wire transfers to fraudulent accounts.

Stewart Title Company understands the importance of protecting against wire fraud and has multiple
safeguards in place to protect all parties involved in the transaction, including secure encrypted email for
Stewart associates, and fraud warnings in all emails. Stewart Title Company urges its clients to heed
these warnings and take every precaution before engaging in the transfer of any funds. Stewart Title
Company is committed to protecting the interest of all parties involved in the transaction and will continue
advancing necessary precautions to ensure a superior customer experience.

You will receive wire instructions from Stewart Title via a secure encrypted email or in the initial Welcome
package sent to you through DocuSign. If you receive conflicting wire instructions please STOP and call
your Escrow team using a known telephone number, not one provided in an email, to determine if the
new instructions are fraudulent.

If you ask us to wire transfer money to you we must receive written wire transfer instructions. Your bank
account information must be validated by face to face verification or phone verification using a known
phone number, not one provided in an email, or using previously validated account information which we
already have on file.
ALTA COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE
ISSUED BY
STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY


                                                                       NOTICE

IMPORTANT - READ CAREFULLY: THIS COMMITMENT IS AN OFFER TO ISSUE ONE OR MORE TITLE
INSURANCE POLICIES. ALL CLAIMS OR REMEDIES SOUGHT AGAINST THE COMPANY INVOLVING THE
CONTENT OF THIS COMMITMENT OR THE POLICY MUST BE BASED SOLELY IN CONTRACT.

THIS COMMITMENT IS NOT AN ABSTRACT OF TITLE, REPORT OF THE CONDITION OF TITLE, LEGAL OPINION,
OPINION OF TITLE, OR OTHER REPRESENTATION OF THE STATUS OF TITLE. THE PROCEDURES USED BY THE
COMPANY TO DETERMINE INSURABILITY OF THE TITLE, INCLUDING ANY SEARCH AND EXAMINATION, ARE
PROPRIETARY TO THE COMPANY, WERE PERFORMED SOLELY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY, AND
CREATE NO EXTRACONTRACTUAL LIABILITY TO ANY PERSON, INCLUDING A PROPOSED INSURED.

THE COMPANY’S OBLIGATION UNDER THIS COMMITMENT IS TO ISSUE A POLICY TO A PROPOSED INSURED
IDENTIFIED IN SCHEDULE A IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS COMMITMENT. THE
COMPANY HAS NO LIABILITY OR OBLIGATION INVOLVING THE CONTENT OF THIS COMMITMENT TO ANY
OTHER PERSON.

                                                      COMMITMENT TO ISSUE POLICY

Subject to the Notice; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; Schedule B, Part II - Exceptions; and the Commitment
Conditions, STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY, a Texas corporation (the “Company”), commits to issue the Policy
according to the terms and provisions of this Commitment. This Commitment is effective as of the Commitment Date
shown in Schedule A for each Policy described in Schedule A, only when the Company has entered in Schedule A both
the specified dollar amount as the Proposed Policy Amount and the name of the Proposed Insured.

If all of the Schedule B, Part I - Requirements have not been met within six months after the Commitment Date, this
Commitment terminates and the Company’s liability and obligation end.



Authorized Countersignature

Stewart Title of Utah, Inc.
1518 North Woodland Park Drive
Layton, UT 84041




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the Commitment to Issue
Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II - Exceptions; and a countersignature by the
Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.

Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16
Page 1 of 3
                                                         COMMITMENT CONDITIONS

1. DEFINITIONS
   (a) “Knowledge” or “Known”: Actual or imputed knowledge, but not constructive notice imparted by the Public
       Records.
   (b) “Land”: The land described in Schedule A and affixed improvements that by law constitute real property. The term
       “Land” does not include any property beyond the lines of the area described in Schedule A, nor any right, title,
       interest, estate, or easement in abutting streets, roads, avenues, alleys, lanes, ways, or waterways, but this does
       not modify or limit the extent that a right of access to and from the Land is to be insured by the Policy.
   (c) “Mortgage”: A mortgage, deed of trust, or other security instrument, including one evidenced by electronic means
       authorized by law.
   (d) “Policy”: Each contract of title insurance, in a form adopted by the American Land Title Association, issued or to
       be issued by the Company pursuant to this Commitment.
   (e) “Proposed Insured”: Each person identified in Schedule A as the Proposed Insured of each Policy to be issued
       pursuant to this Commitment.
   (f) “Proposed Policy Amount”: Each dollar amount specified in Schedule A as the Proposed Policy Amount of each
       Policy to be issued pursuant to this Commitment.
   (g) “Public Records”: Records established under state statutes at the Commitment Date for the purpose of imparting
       constructive notice of matters relating to real property to purchasers for value and without Knowledge.
   (h) “Title”: The estate or interest described in Schedule A.

2. If all of the Schedule B, Part I - Requirements have not been met within the time period specified in the Commitment
   to Issue Policy, this Commitment terminates and the Company’s liability and obligation end.

3. The Company’s liability and obligation is limited by and this Commitment is not valid without:
   (a) the Notice;
   (b) the Commitment to Issue Policy;
   (c) the Commitment Conditions;
   (d) Schedule A;
   (e) Schedule B, Part I - Requirements;
   (f) Schedule B, Part II - Exceptions; and
   (g) a countersignature by the Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.

4. COMPANY’S RIGHT TO AMEND
   The Company may amend this Commitment at any time. If the Company amends this Commitment to add a defect,
   lien, encumbrance, adverse claim, or other matter recorded in the Public Records prior to the Commitment Date, any
   liability of the Company is limited by Commitment Condition 5. The Company shall not be liable for any other
   amendment to this Commitment.

5. LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY
   (a) The Company’s liability under Commitment Condition 4 is limited to the Proposed Insured’s actual expense
       incurred in the interval between the Company’s delivery to the Proposed Insured of the Commitment and the
       delivery of the amended Commitment, resulting from the Proposed Insured’s good faith reliance to:
       (i) comply with the Schedule B, Part I - Requirements;
       (ii) eliminate, with the Company’s written consent, any Schedule B, Part II - Exceptions; or
       (iii) acquire the Title or create the Mortgage covered by this Commitment.
   (b) The Company shall not be liable under Commitment Condition 5(a) if the Proposed Insured requested the
       amendment or had Knowledge of the matter and did not notify the Company about it in writing.
   (c) The Company will only have liability under Commitment Condition 4 if the Proposed Insured would not have
       incurred the expense had the Commitment included the added matter when the Commitment was first delivered
       to the Proposed Insured.




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the Commitment to Issue
Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II - Exceptions; and a countersignature by the
Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.

Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16
Page 2 of 3
     (d) The Company’s liability shall not exceed the lesser of the Proposed Insured’s actual expense incurred in good
         faith and described in Commitment Conditions 5(a)(i) through 5(a)(iii) or the Proposed Policy Amount.
     (e) The Company shall not be liable for the content of the Transaction Identification Data, if any.
     (f) In no event shall the Company be obligated to issue the Policy referred to in this Commitment unless all of the
         Schedule B, Part I - Requirements have been met to the satisfaction of the Company.
     (g) In any event, the Company’s liability is limited by the terms and provisions of the Policy.

6. LIABILITY OF THE COMPANY MUST BE BASED ON THIS COMMITMENT
   (a) Only a Proposed Insured identified in Schedule A, and no other person, may make a claim under this
       Commitment.
   (b) Any claim must be based in contract and must be restricted solely to the terms and provisions of this
       Commitment.
   (c) Until the Policy is issued, this Commitment, as last revised, is the exclusive and entire agreement between the
       parties with respect to the subject matter of this Commitment and supersedes all prior commitment negotiations,
       representations, and proposals of any kind, whether written or oral, express or implied, relating to the subject
       matter of this Commitment.
   (d) The deletion or modification of any Schedule B, Part II - Exception does not constitute an agreement or obligation
       to provide coverage beyond the terms and provisions of this Commitment or the Policy.
   (e) Any amendment or endorsement to this Commitment must be in writing and authenticated by a person authorized
       by the Company.
   (f) When the Policy is issued, all liability and obligation under this Commitment will end and the Company’s only
       liability will be under the Policy.

7. IF THIS COMMITMENT HAS BEEN ISSUED BY AN ISSUING AGENT
   The issuing agent is the Company’s agent only for the limited purpose of issuing title insurance commitments and
   policies. The issuing agent is not the Company’s agent for the purpose of providing closing or settlement services.

8. PRO-FORMA POLICY
   The Company may provide, at the request of a Proposed Insured, a pro-forma policy illustrating the coverage that the
   Company may provide. A pro-forma policy neither reflects the status of Title at the time that the pro-forma policy is
   delivered to a Proposed Insured, nor is it a commitment to insure.

9. ARBITRATION
   The Policy contains an arbitration clause. All arbitrable matters when the Proposed Policy Amount is $2,000,000 or
   less shall be arbitrated at the option of either the Company or the Proposed Insured as the exclusive remedy of the
   parties. A Proposed Insured may review a copy of the arbitration rules at <http://www.alta.org/arbitration>.




                                           STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY

     All notices required to be given the Company and any statement in writing required to be furnished the Company shall
     be addressed to it at P.O. Box 2029, Houston, Texas 77252-2029.




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the Commitment to Issue
Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II - Exceptions; and a countersignature by the
Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.

Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16
Page 3 of 3
ALTA COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE
SCHEDULE A
ISSUED BY
STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY


Transaction Identification Data for reference only:

Issuing Agent:                      Stewart Title of Utah, Inc.
Issuing Office:                     1518 North Woodland Park Drive, Layton, UT 84041
Issuing Office’s ALTA® Registry ID:
Loan ID Number:
Commitment Number:                  1485606
Issuing Office File Number:         1485606
Property Address:                   13680 South 1360 West, Riverton, UT 84065
Revision Number:


1. Commitment Date: October 22, 2021 at 8:00AM

2. Policy to be issued:                                                                              Proposed Policy Amount

     (a) ALTA Owner’s Standard


     Proposed Insured: Verizon Wireless

     (b) ALTA Loan Extended

     Proposed Insured:
                                                                                            Endorsements Premium: $0.00



3. The estate or interest in the Land described or referred to in this Commitment is:

     FEE SIMPLE

4. The Title is, at the Commitment Date, vested in:

     Riverton City, A Utah Municipal Corporation

5. The Land is described as follows:

     See Exhibit “A” Attached Hereto




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions; and a countersignature by the Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.
Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16 (4-2-18)
Page 1 of 8
ALTA COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE
EXHIBIT “A”
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
ISSUED BY
STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY


File No.: 1485606

The land referred to herein is situated in the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah, and is described as
follows:

BEGINNING NORTH 0°08'34" EAST 183.002 FEET FROM THE EAST QUARTER CORNER OF
SECTION 5, TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST, SALT LAKE MERIDIAN; AND RUNNING
THENCE SOUTH 89°33'44" WEST 832.592 FEET; THENCE NORTH 0°04'13" EAST 286.639 FEET;
THENCE SOUTH 89°53'44" WEST 197.86 FEET; THENCE NORTH 30°39'27" EAST 211.38 FEET;
THENCE NORTH 17°50'33" WEST 565.9 FEET; THENCE NORTH 32°09'27" EAST 160.91 FEET;
THENCE SOUTH 89°57'56" EAST 955.03 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 0°28'34" WEST 594.03 FEET;
THENCE SOUTHERLY 79.706 FEET ALONG A 470 FOOT RADIUS CURVE TO LEFT; THENCE
SOUTH 9°14'26" EAST 337.80 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 0°08'34" WEST 134.20 FEET TO BEGINNING.

Tax ID No. 33-05-200-025




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions; and a countersignature by the Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.
Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16 (4-2-18)
Page 2 of 8
ALTA COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE
SCHEDULE B PART I
ISSUED BY
STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY


File No.: 1485606

Requirements

All of the following Requirements must be met:

1. The Proposed Insured must notify the Company in writing of the name of any party not referred to in
   this Commitment who will obtain an interest in the Land or who will make a loan on the Land. The
   Company may then make additional Requirements or Exceptions.

2. Pay the agreed amount for the estate or interest to be insured.

3. Pay the premiums, fees, and charges for the Policy to the Company.

4. Documents satisfactory to the Company that convey the Title or create the Mortgage to be insured, or
   both, must be properly authorized, executed, delivered, and recorded in the Public Records.

5. Furnish proof of payment of all bills for labor and material furnished or to be furnished in connection
   with improvements erected or to be erected.

6. Pay all general and special taxes now due and payable.

7. Any matter in dispute between you and the Company may be subject to arbitration as an alternative
   to court action pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Assoc. or other recognized arbitrator
   a copy of which is available on request and can be obtained from the Company. Any decision
   reached by arbitration shall be binding upon both you and Company. The arbitration aware may
   include attorney's fees if allowed by state law and may be entered as a judgment in any court of
   property jurisdiction.

8. This Commitment will be subject to defects, liens, encumbrances, adverse claims or other matters, if
   any created, first appearing in the public records or attaching subsequent to the effective date hereof
   but prior to the date of the proposed insured acquires for value of record the estate or interest or
   mortgage thereon covered by this Commitment if not cleared prior to recordation of the insured
   interest.

9. Release(s), reconveyance(s), or satisfaction(s), of items to be paid off.

10. Notice to Applicant: The land covered herein may be serviced by districts, service companies and/or
    municipalities, which assesses charges for water, sewer, electricity and any other utilities, etc. which
    are not covered by this report or insured under a title insurance policy.

11. Notice to Applicant: Upon the issuance of the ALTA Homeowner's Policy it contains deductible
    amounts and maximum liability amounts relating to Covered Risks 16, 18, 19 and 21; your deductible
    amount and our maximum dollar limit of liability will be shown in Schedule A of the policy. The
    Company will provide a sample of the policy form upon request.



This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions; and a countersignature by the Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.
Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16 (4-2-18)
Page 3 of 8
ALTA COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE
SCHEDULE B PART I
ISSUED BY
STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY


12. In the event the transaction for which this commitment is furnished cancels, the minimum cancellation
    fee will be $120.00.

13. Standard Exceptions 1 - 7 of Schedule B, Section 2, will be eliminated from the ALTA Loan Policy
    and the ALTA Homeowner's Policy upon satisfaction of any underwriting requirements.




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions; and a countersignature by the Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.
Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16 (4-2-18)
Page 4 of 8
ALTA COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE
SCHEDULE B PART II
ISSUED BY
STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY


Exceptions

File No.: 1485606

THIS COMMITMENT DOES NOT REPUBLISH ANY COVENANT, CONDITION, RESTRICTION, OR
LIMITATION CONTAINED IN ANY DOCUMENT REFERRED TO IN THIS COMMITMENT TO THE
EXTENT THAT THE SPECIFIC COVENANT, CONDITION, RESTRICTION, OR LIMITATION VIOLATES
STATE OR FEDERAL LAW BASED ON RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, SEXUAL ORIENTATION,
GENDER IDENTITY, HANDICAP, FAMILIAL STATUS, OR NATIONAL ORIGIN.

The Policy will not insure against loss or damage resulting from the terms and provisions of any lease or
easement identified in Schedule A, and will include the following Exceptions unless cleared to the
satisfaction of the Company:

1. Any defect, lien, encumbrance, adverse claim, or other matter that appears for the first time in the
   Public Records or is created, attaches, or is disclosed between the Commitment Date and the date
   on which all of the Schedule B, Part I - Requirements are met.

2. Taxes or assessments which are not shown as existing liens by the records of any taxing authority
   that levies taxes or assessments on real property or by the Public Records. Proceedings by a public
   agency which may result in taxes or assessments, or notices of such proceedings, whether or not
   shown by the records of such agency or by the Public Records.

3. Any facts, rights, interests, or claims which are not shown by the Public Records, but which could be
   ascertained by an inspection of the Land or by making inquiry of persons in possession thereof.

4. Easements, liens, or encumbrances, or claims thereof, which are not shown by the Public Records.

5. Any encroachment, encumbrance, violation, variation, or adverse circumstance affecting the Title that
   would be disclosed by an accurate and complete land survey of the Land and not shown by the
   Public Records.

6. (a) Unpatented mining claims; (b) reservations or exceptions in patents or in Acts authorizing the
   issuance thereof; (c) water rights, claims or title to water; ditch rights; (d) minerals of whatsoever kind,
   subsurface and surface substances, including but not limited to coal, lignite, oil, gas, uranium, clay,
   rock, sand and gravel and other hydrocarbons in, on, under and that may be produced from the Land,
   together with all rights, privileges, and immunities related thereto, whether or not the matters
   excepted under (a), (b), (c) or (d) are shown by the Public Records. The Company makes no
   representation as to the present ownership of any such interests. There may be leases, grants,
   exceptions or reservations of interests that are not listed.

7. Any lien or right to a lien for services, labor, or material heretofore or hereafter furnished, imposed by
   law and not shown by the Public Records.




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions; and a countersignature by the Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.
Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16 (4-2-18)
Page 5 of 8
ALTA COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE
SCHEDULE B PART II
ISSUED BY
STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY


8. Taxes for the year 2021 are Exempt. Tax ID No. 33-05-200-025.

     Subject to any and all re-assessments by the County Treasurer, by reason of an incorrect
     assessment during a previous year.

9. Subject property is included within the boundaries of Riverton City, South Valley Sewer District and
   the Riverton Law Enforcement Service Area and is subject to the charges and assessments thereof.

10. Certificate of Annexation of the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area and the terms,
    conditions and limitations contained therein, recorded December 12, 2011, as Entry No. 11295833, in
    Book 9973, at Page 9832 of County Records.

11. Resolution No. 17-76 to Create the Riverton Law Enforcement Service Area and the terms, conditions
    and limitations contained therein, recorded December 18, 2017, as Entry No. 12681580, in Book
    10630, at Page 6727 of County Records.

12. Certificate of Boundary Adjustment and the terms, conditions and limitations contained therein,
    recorded November 19, 2018, as Entry No. 12888878, in Book 10731, at Page 6571 of County
    Records.

13. Water rights, claims or title to water, whether or not the matters are shown by the Public Records.

14. Minerals of whatsoever kind, subsurface and surface substances, including but not limited to coal,
    lignite, oil, gas, uranium, clay, rock, sand and gravel in, on, or under and that may be produced from
    the Land, together with all rights, privileges, and immunities relating thereto, whether or not appearing
    in the Public Records or listed in Schedule B. The Company makes no representation as to the
    present ownership of any such interests. There may be leases, grants, exceptions or reservations of
    interest that are not listed.

15. Right of way and easement for any and all facilities appurtenant to the maintenance of the Utah Lake
    Distribution canal.

     Any loss of claim arising from the fact that the boundary line of the herein described property is
     referred to in various deeds of record as the boundary line of the Utah Lake Distribution canal which
     boundary may be subject to change and/or uncertainty.

     Notice of Interst in Canal Property Easement, upon the terms and conditions therein provided,
     recorded March 13, 2001, as Entry No. 7842260, in Book 8433, Page 6163, of Official Records.

16. Right of Way for ditch set forth in Warranty Deed and the terms, conditions and limitations contained
    therein, recorded February 23, 1977, as Entry No. 578623, in Book 17, at Page 113 of County
    Records.

17. Reservations contained in Quit Claim Deed and the terms, conditions and limitations contained
    therein, recorded June 8, 1965, as Entry No. 2087501, in Book 2336, at Page 563 of County
    Records.

This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions; and a countersignature by the Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.
Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16 (4-2-18)
Page 6 of 8
ALTA COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE
SCHEDULE B PART II
ISSUED BY
STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY


18. Contract Compensating Landowner for Government use of Reserved Right-Of-Way and the terms,
    conditions and limitations contained therein, recorded October 29, 1971, as Entry No. 2418325, in
    Book 3011, at Page 735 of County Records.

19. Reservations containted in Warranty Deed and the terms, conditions and limitations contained
    therein, recorded October 13, 1995, as Entry No. 6188846, in Book 7248, at Page 0397 of County
    Records.

20. Reservations contained in Warranty Deed and the terms, conditions and limitations contained therein,
    recorded February 23, 1996, as Entry No. 6286719, in Book 7335, at Page 2851 of County Records.

21. Easement and right of way upon the terms and conditions therein provided, in favor of Utah
    Department of Transportation, recorded April 7, 1997 as Entry No. 6612543, in Book 7637, Page
    0130, of Official Records.

22. Reservations contained in Quit Claim Deed and the terms, conditions and limitations contained
    therein, recorded March 28, 2001, as Entry No.7854244, in Book 8438, at Page 5272 of County
    Records.

23. Assumption of Risk Agreement for Substandard Lateral Connection and the terms, conditions and
    limitations contained therein, recorded November 7, 2006, as Entry No. 9900811, in Book 9377, at
    Page 1087 of County Records.

24. Easement and right of way upon the terms and conditions therein provided, in favor of South Valley
    Sewer District, recorded November 7, 2006 as Entry No. 9900812, in Book 9377, Page 1091, of
    Official Records.

25. Easement and right of way upon the terms and conditions therein provided, in favor of PacifiCorp, an
    Oregon corporation, recorded November 13, 2006 as Entry No. 9905737, in Book 9379, Page 762, of
    Official Records.

26. Easement and right of way upon the terms and conditions therein provided, in favor of Questar Gas
    Company, recorded November 21, 2006 as Entry No. 9916397, in Book 9383, Page 8828, of Official
    Records.




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions; and a countersignature by the Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.
Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16 (4-2-18)
Page 7 of 8
ALTA COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE
SCHEDULE B PART II
ISSUED BY
STEWART TITLE GUARANTY COMPANY


27. A Oil, Gas and Hydrocarbon Lease, dated August 8, 1977, executed by Division of State Lands, as
    Lessor, and D.H. Willson, as Lessee, upon the terms, conditions and covenants therein provided,
    recorded May 15, 1978, as Entry No. 3107570, Book 4672, and Page 367 of Official Records.
    (Includes Other Property)

     Assignment, upon the terms and conditions therein provided, recorded May 15, 1978, as Entry No.
     3107572, in Book 7672, Page 379, of Official Records.

     Assignment of Overriding Royalty Interest, upon the terms and conditions therein provided, recorded
     February 3, 1982, as Entry No. 3645044, in Book 5337, Page 907, of Official Records.

     Assignment, upon the terms and conditions therein provided, recorded ovember 7, 1983, as Entry No.
     3866227, in Book 5505, Page 758, of Official Records.

28. An unrecorded Lease dated October 27, 2005, executed by Riverton City, a Municipal Corporation,
    as Lessor, and New Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company as Lessee, for
    a term of 5 years, as disclosed by Memorandum of Lease, upon the terms and conditions therein
    provided, recorded November 28, 2005, as Entry No. 9564304, in Book 9222, Page 2612, of Official
    Records.

29. Any matters that might be disclosed by an accurate survey of said premises.

30. Rights of tenants as tenants only.

31. The rights of parties in possession of subject property under unrecorded Contracts, Leases, Rental or
    Occupancy Agreements and any claims and/or liens thereunder.



NOTE: No existing Deed of Trust appears of record. If this information is not correct, please notify the
company as soon as possible to provide information regarding the existing loan.

NOTE: Judgments have been checked against the following:

Verizon Wireless
Riverton City

There were NO judgments found.




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA® Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the Commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions; and a countersignature by the Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.
Copyright 2006-2016 American Land Title Association. All rights reserved.
The use of this Form (or any derivative thereof) is restricted to ALTA licensees and ALTA members in good standing
as of the date of use. All other uses are prohibited. Reprinted under license from the American Land Title Association.
File No.: 1485606
ALTA Commitment For Title Insurance 8-1-16 (4-2-18)
Page 8 of 8
                                 Stewart Title Guaranty Company Privacy Notice
                                             Stewart Title Companies
  WHAT DO THE STEWART TITLE COMPANIES DO WITH YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION?
  Federal and applicable state law and regulations give consumers the right to limit some but not all sharing. Federal and applicable state
  law regulations also require us to tell you how we collect, share, and protect your personal information. Please read this notice carefully to
  understand how we use your personal information. This privacy notice is distributed on behalf of the Stewart Title Guaranty Company and
  its title affiliates (the Stewart Title Companies), pursuant to Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA).
  The types of personal information we collect and share depend on the product or service that you have sought through us. This
  information can include social security numbers and driver's license number.
  All financial companies, such as the Stewart Title Companies, need to share customers' personal information to run their everyday
  business—to process transactions and maintain customer accounts. In the section below, we list the reasons that we can share
  customers' personal information; the reasons that we choose to share; and whether you can limit this sharing.

  Reasons we can share your personal information.                            Do we share                 Can you limit this sharing?
  For our everyday business purposes— to process your transactions
  and maintain your account. This may include running the business and
  managing customer accounts, such as processing transactions,                    Yes                                   No
  mailing, and auditing services, and responding to court orders and legal
  investigations.
  For our marketing purposes— to offer our products and services to               Yes                                   No
  you.
  For joint marketing with other financial companies                               No                             We don't share
  For our affiliates' everyday business purposes— information about
  your transactions and experiences. Affiliates are companies related by
  common ownership or control. They can be financial and non-financial            Yes                                   No
  companies. Our affiliates may include companies with a Stewart name;
  financial companies, such as Stewart Title Company
  For our affiliates' everyday business purposes— information about
                                                                                   No                             We don't share
  your creditworthiness.
  For our affiliates to market to you — For your convenience, Stewart             Yes           Yes, send your first and last name, the email
  has developed a means for you to opt out from its affiliates marketing                        address used in your transaction, your Stewart file
  even though such mechanism is not legally required.                                           number and the Stewart office location that is
                                                                                                handling   your   transaction     by   email     to
                                                                                                optout@stewart.com or fax to
                                                                                                1-800-335-9591.
  For non-affiliates to market to you. Non-affiliates are companies not
                                                                                   No                             We don't share
  related by common ownership or control. They can be financial and
  non-financial companies.

  We may disclose your personal information to our affiliates or to non-affiliates as permitted by law. If you request a transaction with a
  non-affiliate, such as a third party insurance company, we will disclose your personal information to that non-affiliate. [We do not control
  their subsequent use of information, and suggest you refer to their privacy notices.]

  SHARING PRACTICES
  How often do the Stewart Title Companies notify me We must notify you about our sharing practices when you request a transaction.
  about their practices?
  How do the Stewart Title Companies protect my                To protect your personal information from unauthorized access and use, we use
  personal information?                                        security measures that comply with federal law. These measures include
                                                               computer, file, and building safeguards.
  How do the Stewart Title Companies collect my                We collect your personal information, for example, when you
  personal information?                         ·              request insurance-related services
                                                ·              provide such information to us
                                                               We also collect your personal information from others, such as the real estate
                                                               agent or lender involved in your transaction, credit reporting agencies, affiliates
                                                               or other companies.
  What sharing can I limit?                                    Although federal and state law give you the right to limit sharing (e.g., opt out) in
                                                               certain instances, we do not share your personal information in those instances.

  Contact us: If you have any questions about this privacy notice, please contact us at: Stewart Title Guaranty Company,
  1360 Post Oak Blvd., Ste. 100, Privacy Officer, Houston, Texas 77056


File No.: 1485606                                                                                                                Revised 01-01-2020
                                                                                                                         Effective Date: January 1, 2020




                                         Privacy Notice for California Residents
Pursuant to the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (“CCPA”), Stewart Information Services Corporation and its subsidiary companies
(collectively, “Stewart”) are providing this Privacy Notice for California Residents (“CCPA Notice”). This CCPA Notice supplements the
information contained in Stewart’s existing privacy notice and applies solely to all visitors, users and others who reside in the State of
California or are considered California Residents (“consumers” or “you”). Terms used but not defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them
in the CCPA.

Information Stewart Collects

Stewart collects information that identifies, relates to, describes, references, is capable of being associated with, or could reasonably be linked,
directly or indirectly, with a particular consumer, household, or device. Most of the information that Stewart collects in the course of its regular
business is already protected pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA). Additionally, much of this information comes from government
records or other information already in the public domain. Personal information under the CCPA does not include:

         Publicly available information from government records.
         Deidentified or aggregated consumer information.
         Certain personal information protected by other sector-specific federal or California laws, including but not limited to the Fair Credit
          Reporting Act (FCRA), GLBA and California Financial Information Privacy Act (FIPA).
Specifically, Stewart has collected the following categories of personal information from consumers within the last twelve (12) months:

Category                                 Examples                                                                                          Collected?

                                         A real name, alias, postal address, unique personal identifier, online identifier, Internet
A. Identifiers.                          Protocol address, email address, account name, Social Security number, driver's                   YES
                                         license number, passport number, or other similar identifiers.

                                         A name, signature, Social Security number, physical characteristics or description,
B. Personal information categories       address, telephone number, passport number, driver's license or state identification
listed in the California Customer        card number, insurance policy number, education, employment, employment history,
                                                                                                                                           YES
Records statute (Cal. Civ. Code §        bank account number, credit card number, debit card number, or any other financial
1798.80(e)).                             information, medical information, or health insurance information. Some personal
                                         information included in this category may overlap with other categories.

                                         Age (40 years or older), race, color, ancestry, national origin, citizenship, religion or
C. Protected classification              creed, marital status, medical condition, physical or mental disability, sex (including
characteristics under California or      gender, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy or childbirth and related                   YES
federal law.                             medical conditions), sexual orientation, veteran or military status, genetic information
                                         (including familial genetic information).

                                         Records of personal property, products or services purchased, obtained, or
D. Commercial information.                                                                                                                 YES
                                         considered, or other purchasing or consuming histories or tendencies.

                                         Genetic, physiological, behavioral, and biological characteristics, or activity patterns
                                         used to extract a template or other identifier or identifying information, such as,
E. Biometric information.                                                                                                                  YES
                                         fingerprints, faceprints, and voiceprints, iris or retina scans, keystroke, gait, or other
                                         physical patterns, and sleep, health, or exercise data.

F. Internet or other similar network     Browsing history, search history, information on a consumer's interaction with a
                                                                                                                                           YES
activity.                                website, application, or advertisement.

G. Geolocation data.                     Physical location or movements.                                                                   YES

H. Sensory data.                         Audio, electronic, visual, thermal, olfactory, or similar information.                            YES

I. Professional or employment-related
                                      Current or past job history or performance evaluations.                                              YES
information.

J. Non-public education information    Education records directly related to a student maintained by an educational institution
(per the Family Educational Rights and or party acting on its behalf, such as grades, transcripts, class lists, student schedules,
                                                                                                                                           YES
Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. Section 1232g, student identification codes, student financial information, or student disciplinary
34 C.F.R. Part 99)).                   records.

K. Inferences drawn from other           Profile reflecting a person's preferences, characteristics, psychological trends,
                                                                                                                                           YES
personal information.                    predispositions, behavior, attitudes, intelligence, abilities, and aptitudes.



File No.: 1485606                                                                                                                     Revised 01-01-2020
Stewart obtains the categories of personal information listed above from the following categories of sources:

        Directly and indirectly from customers, their designees or their agents (For example, realtors, lenders, attorneys, etc.)
        Directly and indirectly from activity on Stewart’s website or other applications.
        From third-parties that interact with Stewart in connection with the services we provide.
Use of Personal Information

Stewart may use or disclose the personal information we collect for one or more of the following purposes:

        To fulfill or meet the reason for which the information is provided.
        To provide, support, personalize, and develop our website, products, and services.
        To create, maintain, customize, and secure your account with Stewart.
        To process your requests, purchases, transactions, and payments and prevent transactional fraud.
        To prevent and/or process claims.
        To assist third party vendors/service providers who complete transactions or perform services on Stewart’s behalf.
        As necessary or appropriate to protect the rights, property or safety of Stewart, our customers or others.
        To provide you with support and to respond to your inquiries, including to investigate and address your concerns and monitor and
         improve our responses.
        To personalize your website experience and to deliver content and product and service offerings relevant to your interests, including
         targeted offers and ads through our website, third-party sites, and via email or text message (with your consent, where required by
         law).
        To help maintain the safety, security, and integrity of our website, products and services, databases and other technology assets,
         and business.
        To respond to law enforcement or regulator requests as required by applicable law, court order, or governmental regulations.
        Auditing for compliance with federal and state laws, rules and regulations.
        Performing services including maintaining or servicing accounts, providing customer service, processing or fulfilling orders and
         transactions, verifying customer information, processing payments, providing advertising or marketing services or other similar
         services.
        To evaluate or conduct a merger, divestiture, restructuring, reorganization, dissolution, or other sale or transfer of some or all of our
         assets, whether as a going concern or as part of bankruptcy, liquidation, or similar proceeding, in which personal information held by
         us is among the assets transferred.
    Stewart will not collect additional categories of personal information or use the personal information we collected for materially different,
    unrelated, or incompatible purposes without providing you notice.

    Disclosure of Personal Information to Affiliated Companies and Nonaffiliated Third Parties

    Stewart does not sell your personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. Stewart may share your information with those you have
    designated as your agent in the course of your transaction (for example, a realtor or a lender). Stewart may disclose your personal
    information to a third party for a business purpose. Typically, when we disclose personal information for a business purpose, we enter a
    contract that describes the purpose and requires the recipient to both keep that personal information confidential and not use it for any
    purpose except performing the contract.

    We share your personal information with the following categories of third parties:

        Service providers and vendors (For example, search companies, mobile notaries, and companies providing credit/debit card
         processing, billing, shipping, repair, customer service, auditing, marketing, etc.)
        Affiliated Companies
        Litigation parties and attorneys, as required by law.
        Financial rating organizations, rating bureaus and trade associations.
        Federal and State Regulators, law enforcement and other government entities
    In the preceding twelve (12) months, Stewart has disclosed the following categories of personal information for a business purpose:

         Category A: Identifiers
         Category B: California Customer Records personal information categories
         Category C: Protected classification characteristics under California or federal law
         Category D: Commercial Information
         Category E: Biometric Information
         Category F: Internet or other similar network activity
         Category G: Geolocation data
         Category H: Sensory data
         Category I: Professional or employment-related information
         Category J: Non-public education information
         Category K: Inferences

    Consumer Rights and Choices

    The CCPA provides consumers (California residents) with specific rights regarding their personal information. This section describes your
    CCPA rights and explains how to exercise those rights.



File No.: 1485606                                                                                                             Revised 01-01-2020
     Access to Specific Information and Data Portability Rights

     You have the right to request that Stewart disclose certain information to you about our collection and use of your personal information
     over the past 12 months. Once we receive and confirm your verifiable consumer request, Stewart will disclose to you:

        The categories of personal information Stewart collected about you.
        The categories of sources for the personal information Stewart collected about you.
        Stewart’s business or commercial purpose for collecting that personal information.
        The categories of third parties with whom Stewart shares that personal information.
        The specific pieces of personal information Stewart collected about you (also called a data portability request).
        If Stewart disclosed your personal data for a business purpose, a listing identifying the personal information categories that each
         category of recipient obtained.
     Deletion Request Rights

     You have the right to request that Stewart delete any of your personal information we collected from you and retained, subject to certain
     exceptions. Once we receive and confirm your verifiable consumer request, Stewart will delete (and direct our service providers to delete)
     your personal information from our records, unless an exception applies.

     Stewart may deny your deletion request if retaining the information is necessary for us or our service providers to:

     1.     Complete the transaction for which we collected the personal information, provide a good or service that you requested, take actions
            reasonably anticipated within the context of our ongoing business relationship with you, or otherwise perform our contract with you.

     2.     Detect security incidents, protect against malicious, deceptive, fraudulent, or illegal activity, or prosecute those responsible for such
            activities.

     3.     Debug products to identify and repair errors that impair existing intended functionality.

     4.     Exercise free speech, ensure the right of another consumer to exercise their free speech rights, or exercise another right provided for
            by law.

     5.     Comply with the California Electronic Communications Privacy Act (Cal. Penal Code § 1546 seq.).

     6.     Engage in public or peer-reviewed scientific, historical, or statistical research in the public interest that adheres to all other applicable
            ethics and privacy laws, when the information’s deletion may likely render impossible or seriously impair the research’s achievement,
            if you previously provided informed consent.

     7.     Enable solely internal uses that are reasonably aligned with consumer expectations based on your relationship with us.

     8.     Comply with a legal obligation.

     9.     Make other internal and lawful uses of that information that are compatible with the context in which you provided it.

Exercising Access, Data Portability, and Deletion Rights

To exercise the access, data portability, and deletion rights described above, please submit a verifiable consumer request to us either:

           Calling us Toll Free at 1-866-571-9270

           Emailing us at Privacyrequest@stewart.com

        Visiting http://stewart.com/ccpa
Only you, or someone legally authorized to act on your behalf, may make a verifiable consumer request related to your personal information.
You may also make a verifiable consumer request on behalf of your minor child.

To designate an authorized agent, please contact Stewart through one of the methods mentioned above.

You may only make a verifiable consumer request for access or data portability twice within a 12-month period. The verifiable consumer
request must:

        Provide sufficient information that allows us to reasonably verify you are the person about whom we collected personal information or an
         authorized representative.

        Describe your request with sufficient detail that allows us to properly understand, evaluate, and respond to it.

Stewart cannot respond to your request or provide you with personal information if we cannot verify your identity or authority to make the
request and confirm the personal information relates to you.

Making a verifiable consumer request does not require you to create an account with Stewart.

Response Timing and Format

We endeavor to respond to a verifiable consumer request within forty-five (45) days of its receipt. If we require more time (up to an additional
45 days), we will inform you of the reason and extension period in writing.

File No.: 1485606                                                                                                                   Revised 01-01-2020
A written response will be delivered by mail or electronically, at your option.

Any disclosures we provide will only cover the 12-month period preceding the verifiable consumer request’s receipt. The response we provide
will also explain the reasons we cannot comply with a request, if applicable. For data portability requests, we will select a format to provide
your personal information that is readily useable and should allow you to transmit the information from one entity to another entity without
hindrance.

Stewart does not charge a fee to process or respond to your verifiable consumer request unless it is excessive, repetitive, or manifestly
unfounded. If we determine that the request warrants a fee, we will tell you why we made that decision and provide you with a cost estimate
before completing your request.

Non-Discrimination

Stewart will not discriminate against you for exercising any of your CCPA rights. Unless permitted by the CCPA, we will not:

       Deny you goods or services.
       Charge you a different prices or rates for goods or services, including through granting discounts or other benefits, or imposing
        penalties.
       Provide you a different level or quality of goods or services.
       Suggest that you may receive a different price or rate for goods or services or a different level or quality of goods or services.
Changes to Our Privacy Notice

Stewart reserves the right to amend this privacy notice at our discretion and at any time. When we make changes to this privacy notice, we
will post the updated notice on Stewart’s website and update the notice’s effective date. Your continued use of Stewart’s website
following the posting of changes constitutes your acceptance of such changes.

Contact Information

If you have questions or comments about this notice, the ways in which Stewart collects and uses your information described here, your
choices and rights regarding such use, or wish to exercise your rights under California law, please do not hesitate to contact us at:

Phone:               Toll Free at 1-866-571-9270

Website:             http://stewart.com/ccpa

Email:               Privacyrequest@stewart.com

Postal Address: Stewart Information Services Corporation

                              Attn: Mary Thomas, Deputy Chief Compliance Officer

                              1360 Post Oak Blvd., Ste. 100, MC #14-1

                              Houston, TX 77056




File No.: 1485606                                                                                                           Revised 01-01-2020
