                             MEMORANDUM
To:            Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:          Planning Department
Date:          April 7, 2026
Subject:       Ordinance 26-05, Moore Real Estate Rezone, Approximately 1.45 Acres
               Located at the NE Corner of 13200 S & Redwood Road Amending the
               General Plan to Medium-High Density Residential and Rezoning to RM-6,
               Taylor Moore, TMoore Real Estate- Applicant.


On March 12, 2026, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this application.
Minutes from that meeting, and a previous hearing with the Commission, are included below.
The Commission voted to recommend approval of this rezone application, with the following
recommended motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 26-05, the Moore Real Estate Rezone, for 1.45
acres located at the northeast corner of 13200 S and Redwood Road, amending the General
Plan to Medium-High Density Residential and rezoning the property to RM-6, as shown in
Exhibit “A”.

Background

This item is a public hearing for an application that originally was submitted as a request for a
development agreement, which had included General Plan and zoning changes as well as
preliminary site plans, architectural renderings, and other development conditions. Following a
hearing with the Planning Commission late last year, the applicant has made modifications to the
application and the requested action for the property. The application now proposes only a general
plan approval and rezone, with the zoning request at RM-6. The RM-6 zone allows a minimum
project size of at least .5 acres where the property “has frontage on a major street”, and Redwood
Road falls under that definition.

The property in question is approximately 1.45 acres located at the northeast corner of 13200 South
and Redwood Road. The properties are currently zoned RR-22. The site was occupied for many
years by a floral shop which was legal non-conforming, meaning the property was never zoned
commercial. The adjacent property to the east is a mix of Commercial Neighborhood and
Parks/Open Space, and is occupied by a private school. The property to the north is zoned RR-22.
The property across Redwood Road to the west is zoned Commercial Neighborhood, and is currently
vacant.

The applicant is proposing development on the property, with the proposed zoning at RM-6. This is a
reduction from the previous request at RM-14, and the RM-6 zone is also limited to detached single-
family units on lots of at least 5,000 square feet. While the applicant has submitted a conceptual
layout showing an 8 lot layout for the project, this application is for rezone of the property only and no
particular layout or configuration would be included in an approval. Should the rezone be approved,
the application would then pursue Site Plan approval, which would come before the Planning
Commission in a future public hearing. This includes potential access to/from the property, although
the traffic study indicates the level of density would be workable on the property.

The reduction in density from the previous request for this application, from 14 units/acre to 6
units/acre is significant, as concerns were expressed by the Commission in their hearings as to the
suitability of the project area for higher densities and traffic volumes. Detached single family units
within the RM-6 zone can provide a transition on Redwood Road into the residential areas to the
east, but also a buffer against the adjacent commercial development.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of this rezone application, and Staff concurs with
that recommendation.



Public Notices and Response
Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s
webpage. Staff received public comment related to the development, which is included below.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Submitted application.
       2.   Area Photos
       3.   Area Zoning Map.
       4.   Area General Plan Map.
       5.   Traffic Memo
        Background

        The proposed development is located on the northeast corner of the 13200 South / Redwood
        Road intersection in Riverton, Utah. The project includes 15 townhome units. One access is being
        proposed onto 13200 South and no access onto Redwood Road. A site plan for the proposed
        development is included in Appendix A.

        Trip Generation

        Trip generation for the development was calculated using trip generation rates published in the
        Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation (12th Edition, 2025). Trip generation
        for the proposed project is included in Table 1.

        As shown in Table 1, it is anticipated that the proposed development will generate approximately
        100 trips on an average weekday, including 8 trips during the morning peak hour, and 8 trips
        during the evening peak hour.
                                                                   Table 1: Trip Generation
                                                                   Trip Generation
                                                        Riverton City - 13153 South Riverwood
                                                                                                                 Trip Generation           New Trips
                                                1                                 # of         Unit
                                  Land Use
                                                                                  Units        Type
                                                                                                            Total     % In    % Out   In      Out      Total
Weekday Daily
    Single-Family Attached Housing (215)                                            15           DU         100       50%     50%     50      50           100
AM Peak Hour
    Single-Family Attached Housing (215)                                            15           DU          8        25%     75%     2       6            8
PM Peak Hour
    Single-Family Attached Housing (215)                                            15           DU          8        57%     43%     5       3            8
1. Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation ,12th Edition,2025.
SOURCE: Hales Engineering, August 2025



        Access Spacing

        According to Riverton City Code, Ch. 18.215, states that “Access onto public rights-of-way shall
        not be closer than 100 feet from an intersection, nor another driveway on the same side of the
        street.” Measuring from curb to curb, the proposed access is approximately 175 feet from the
        13200 South / Redwood Road intersection and approximately 150 feet from the Our Journey
        Montessori School access to the east of the property. The proposed development is shown to be
        within the city access spacing standard.




                                              1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043                           p 801.766.4343                    2
                                                              www.halesengineering.com
Daily Volume Analysis

The townhome development is anticipated to have minimal impact on the existing roadway
volumes and the current operations on 13200 South. Given travel demand model data, 13200
South has an average daily traffic (ADT) of approximately 1,500. According to the Highway
Capacity Manual, 7th Edition (2022), a generalized daily service volume for a 2-lane street similar
to 13200 South operate at an acceptable level of service (D or better) is approximately 10,700
vehicles per day.

From the trip generation calculated, the development would only generate approximately 100
weekday daily trips. Since the proposed development would only contribute a 6% increase in
traffic to a roadway that is currently operating well under capacity, it is not anticipated that the
proposed project will have any significant impacts on traffic conditions on 13200 South.

Conclusions

The findings of this study are as follows:
   • The proposed development includes 15 townhomes. It is anticipated that the project will
       have one access onto 13200 South.
   • It is anticipated that the proposed project will generate approximately 100 trips on an
       average weekday, including 8 trips during the morning peak hour, and 8 trips during the
       evening peak hour.
   • The proposed access location for the development adheres to city code, exceeding the
       minimum 100 feet distancing from intersections and driveways in both directions.
   • The added trips from the development would have minimal impact on the traffic on 13200
       South, adding approximately 6% more vehicles to daily traffic volumes.

If you have any questions regarding this memorandum, please contact us at 801.766.4343.




                       1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343              3
                                       www.halesengineering.com
PC Minutes
                     RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                              MEETING MINUTES
                                March 12, 2026

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton, Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                   Staff:

Monique Beck                                   Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
Shelly Cluff                                   Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                    Lisa Halversen, Planner
Crystal Keele                                  Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Evan Matheson
Joe Marzo
Galen Mills

1.    CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

In the absence of Chair Darren Park, Vice-Chair Monique Beck called the Planning
Commission Meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Commissioner Cluff led the Pledge of
Allegiance.

2.    PUBLIC HEARINGS

      A.     "MOORE REZONE AND GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT," PLZ-25-4007,
             AN APPLICATION TO AMEND THE GENERAL PLAN AND REZONE
             APPROXIMATELY 1.45 ACRES LOCATED AT 13153, 13171, AND 13191
             SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD.        THE PROPERTY IS CURRENTLY
             DESIGNATED AS “ESTATE DENSITY RESIDENTIAL” IN THE
             GENERAL PLAN, AND ZONED RR-22 (SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
             WITH ½-ACRE MINIMUM LOTS). THE APPLICANT IS REQUESTING
             THE GENERAL PLAN DESIGNATION BE CHANGED TO “MEDIUM-
             HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL” AND THE PROPERTY REZONED TO
             RM-6. THIS ZONE ALLOWS FOR DETACHED SINGLE-FAMILY UNITS
             ONLY, ON LOTS OF AT LEAST 5,000 SQUARE FEET. APPLICANT –
             TAYLOR MOORE.

Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge, presented the Staff Report. The
subject property is located at the northeast corner of Redwood Road and 13200 South.
The Planning Commission considered an application for a Development Agreement on
the property in November 2025. That application requested a density of 14 units per acre
and included architectural standards and other site elements. The Planning Commission
tabled the item. Following that meeting, the developer rescinded their proposal and
submitted the current application.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
March 12, 2026


The Zoning Map was displayed. The applicant proposed to rezone the 1.45-acre property
from RR-22 to RM-6, which allows for detached single-family homes at a maximum
density of six units per acre and minimum lot size of 5,000 square feet. All other
requirements of the RM-6 zone would apply. The Concept Plan indicated a total of eight
lots on the property with access from 13200 South but was subject to change and would
be reviewed in more detail during Site Plan review, as the Planning Commission was only
considering the rezoning application at that time.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that minutes and public comments from the previous meeting
were included in the Meeting Packet. Late comments received in response to the current
notice had been printed and distributed to the Planning Commission. Staff believed the
current application was a reasonable compromise to address concerns raised over the
previous proposal and therefore recommended approval.

Commissioner Matheson expressed concern about the proposed access point’s proximity
to Redwood Road. Mr. Lethbridge reported that Staff shared his concern and had
discussed the matter with the applicant, and the driveway location was expected to
change. However, there was feasible access and its exact location would be determined
prior to the Site Plan review. Any access must meet the City’s safety standards.

Mr. Lethbridge clarified that the application was for zoning only, and the next step would
be for the developer to go through the Site Plan process and demonstrate safe access.
The previous application established that a driveway could function along the east
property line, and the change in density may make access from Redwood Road a more
feasible solution. The RM-6 Zone allows for a maximum of six units per acre, but the
developer may not be able to achieve that number if the access point is moved.

Commissioner Matheson asked about road width requirements. Mr. Lethbridge reported
that public roads are encouraged in the zone, but the size of the property may not allow
for one. A minimum paved surface width of 26 feet will be required for a private lane.

Commissioner Cannon asked if three or four homes with private driveways on Redwood
Road would still be allowed on the property. City Attorney, Ryan Carter, stated that the
Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") may have foreclosed on access rights onto
Redwood Road when it was widened, and any access would need to be negotiated with
UDOT. Commissioner Cannon stated that several applications had been submitted for
the property, and each time the Planning Commission had discussed safety concerns
with access from Redwood Road. He was pleased that the developer met with
neighboring property owners and came up with a better option for the property.

The applicant, Taylor Moore, stated that the project has been before the Planning
Commission multiple times. The first application was for 28 units in the City’s highest
density zone, and the second application was for 15 units in the RM-14 Zone. They then
met with neighbors who expressed concerns about the Development Agreement and
proposed zoning, and the current plan was created in response.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
March 12, 2026



The current application was for eight units in the RM-6 Zone, which only allows for
detached single-family homes. The homes will be two stories, have three-car garages,
and sell in the $600,000 to $700,000 range. He told commissioners that City Engineer
Matt Cassel estimated that the eight homes will generate 10 to 12 trips per day. The
developer had met with UDOT regarding access from Redwood Road, but UDOT refused
the request as they could not meet the 350-foot spacing requirement. They were willing
to meet City requirements for access from 13200 South.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Moore stated that the access
road could be moved slightly or potentially curved at 13200 South, but the minimum lot
depth requirement would prevent them from moving it too far from the intersection without
losing four lots. The homes will have three-car garages with approximately 30-foot-wide
driveways. The lots will be approximately 6,000 square feet in size.

Mr. Lethbridge stated that UDOT’s first response is always “no”, but Staff would continue
to work with the applicant and UDOT regarding potential access from Redwood Road. It
is important to first have the zoning in place because the number of lots and potential
traffic counts factor into UDOT’s decision.

Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing.

Ashley Mobley stated that she lives on Jared Circle. She was vocally opposed to the
original proposal because she wanted to protect the character of the surrounding
neighborhood and ensure that any development was thoughtful and appropriate. She
had voiced her concerns to Mayor Buroker, City Council Members, Planning
Commissioners, and Staff, as well as her neighbors. She believed that the current
proposal represented a reasonable compromise that would provide a buffer to the
surrounding neighborhood and address concerns about how the development could
impact nearby residents. However, she hoped that the zoning was granted due to the
property’s unique characteristics and would not set a precedent for other properties in the
area. She believes that approving RM-6 Zoning would be a fair and balanced decision.

Dave Mobley stated that he disagreed with the Riverton Heritage Committee’s stated
objections to the application as they did not offer good alternatives and attempted to usurp
the goodwill of their neighbors. He also did not agree with the arguments made about
traffic, as those concerns seemed overstated. He believes that the proposal represents
a compromise that addressed all residents’ concerns, and the developer was committed
to finding a solution that works for everyone.

Travis Christensen stated that he supported the development and RM-6 zoning. He
believes it would make sense for the City to review the area between 12600 South and
Bangerter Highway and update the General Plan to reflect how the vacant parcels may
be developed in the future.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 4
March 12, 2026


Virginia Burbank stated that the plan was much better than the last proposal, but she was
concerned about the access being so close to Redwood Road. She appreciated the
Planning Commission actually listening to residents.

Alan Mueller stated that he lives on Riverton Ranch Road. The proposal was not what
residents wanted, but it was a reasonable compromise. He was in support of the
application if an eight-foot wall would still be required around the property. He believes
traffic concerns could be mitigated by decreasing the speed limit on 13200 South to 25
miles per hour.

Mr. Lethbridge stated that no exceptions to City Code were proposed, so standard fencing
requirements would apply.

Traci Hardy expressed concern about access to the neighborhood due to its proximity to
the Montessori school and cemetery. However, she believed this application represented
the developer’s best plan so far.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that one possible scenario would be to limit access from 13200
South to right-in/right-out only. Properties north of the subject property can only be
accessed from Redwood Road, and UDOT sometimes approves shared access in these
situations. Those options would be addressed once the zoning was in place and a Site
Plan application was submitted.

Commissioner Matheson stated that he was impressed with both the citizens who spoke
and the process. The developer had proposed a great compromise.

Commissioner Cluff agreed. The proposal was much better suited to the area, and it was
clear that the developer had worked closely with residents and strove to find a project that
was a good fit. The Planning Commission could discuss the private road when the Site
Plan was reviewed, but the zoning was appropriate for the area.

Commissioner Keele moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of PLZ-25-4007, “Moore Real Estate Rezone,” for 1.45 acres located at
the northeast corner of 13200 S and Redwood Road, amending the General Plan to
Medium-High Density Residential and rezoning the property to RM-6.
Commissioner Mills seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       B.     "RIVER SKATEBOARDS," PLZ-26-2005, AN APPLICATION FOR A
              CONDITIONAL PERMIT FOR A HOME OCCUPATION TO BE LOCATED
              AT 2584 WEST 12875 SOUTH. APPLICANT – MARK BASCOM.

Planner Lisa Halversen presented the Staff Report and reviewed aerial photographs of
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               4
November 13, 2025


      8.     Customers will be instructed to either continue straight on Admiral
             Drive or turn right on Blue Admiral after drop-off and pick-up; no U-
             turns allowed.

      9.     Pick-up and drop-off times shall be staggered to avoid congestion.

Commissioner Cannon seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      B.     'READER CONDITIONAL USE - SHORT-TERM RENTAL,' PLZ-25-2042,
             AN APPLICATION TO RENT THE PROPERTY AT 4851 MURDOCH
             PEAK CIRCLE AS A SHORT-TERM RENTAL. THIS ITEM WAS
             CONTINUED FROM A PREVIOUS MEETING. APPLICANT - GENE
             READER.

Chair Park moved that the Planning Commission CONTINUE Application PLZ-25-
2042, “'Reader Conditional Use - Short-Term Rental,” to the December 11, 2025,
Planning Commission meeting. Commissioner Keele seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

      C.     'MOORE REZONE AND GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT,' PLZ-25-4007,
             AN APPLICATION TO AMEND THE GENERAL PLAN AND REZONE
             APPROXIMATELY 1.45-ACRES LOCATED AT 13153, 13171, AND
             13191 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD. THE PROPERTY IS CURRENTLY
             DESIGNATED AS 'ESTATE DENSITY RESIDENTIAL' IN THE GENERAL
             PLAN, AND ZONED RR-22 (SINGLE FAMILY, RESIDENTIAL WITH 1/2-
             ARCE MINIMUM LOTS). THE APPLICANT IS REQUESTING THE
             GENERAL PLAN DESIGNATION BE CHANGED TO 'HIGH-DENSITY
             RESIDENTIAL' AND THE PROPERTY REZONED TO RM-14D WITH AN
             SD OVERLAY AND/OR DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TO ALLOW UP
             TO 15 TOWNHOMES. APPLICANT - TAYLOR MOORE.

Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge, presented the Staff Report and
indicated that the subject property included several parcels along Redwood Road and
13200 South. The property was previously occupied by a floral shop, which was a legal
non-conforming use, but it was not zoned commercial. The building was removed when
the road was widened, and the property had remained vacant since that time.

The application was for a Development Agreement, including rezoning and preliminary
Site Plan approval. If approved, technical details of the project would be reviewed by
Staff and the Final Site Plan presented to the Planning Commission at a future public
hearing.

The proposed zoning was RM-14-D, which would allow for a maximum density of 14 units
per acre. This zone is typically restricted to the downtown area of Riverton and would not
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
November 13, 2025


normally be extended but the Development Agreement would allow it to be applied to the
subject property. The agreement would also exempt the 1.45-acre property from the two-
acre minimum parcel size required in the RM-14-D Zone. Setbacks would be compliant
with the zone.

Mr. Lethbridge reviewed the proposed architectural renderings, which would be
incorporated into the Development Agreement. All buildings must comply with the
proposed design. A total of 15 units would be allowed for a density of approximately 10
units per acre. All units would have two-car garages, but the five rear-loading units along
13200 South would not have full driveways.

The Applicant proposed a three-rail fence along the property, which would be a deviation
from zone fencing requirements. To address concerns about the fencing style, a
proposed Condition of Approval would require a “picket style” fence with vertical rails.
The Conditions of Approval were then reviewed.

Concerns were expressed to Staff about technical elements of the Site, including
proximity of the driveway to Redwood Road. It was reported that the proposed
configuration met City requirements, and a traffic memo was included in the application.
The driveway would be reviewed in detail during the Final Site Plan approval process, as
would fencing, stormwater management, etc. Any element not specified in the
Development Agreement would be required to conform to RM-14-D Zone requirements
and other Riverton City Standards and Ordinances.

In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, it was clarified that a solid
masonry fence would be required between the development and the commercial property
to the east.

Chair Pro Tem Cluff indicated that a public comment had been received regarding a
potential Site Plan overhang onto adjacent properties and highlighting an active irrigation
ditch. Mr. Lethbridge reported that Staff had not had time to research the matter as the
comment was received earlier that day. Any issues with property lines or surveys must
be addressed and existing irrigation ditches abandoned or relocated as necessary prior
to Site Plan approval.

In response to a question from Chair Cluff, City Engineer Matt Cassell reported that the
traffic study indicated that the 15 homes would generate 100 trips per day. Traffic studies
are based on industry standards for specific use types. A single-family home generates
nine trips per home. Mr. Lethbridge added that commercial trips depend heavily the
specific use.

Commissioner Matheson noted that the application appeared to be incomplete as it did
not appear to be completely filled out. Mr. Lethbridge clarified that the public document
was redacted to remove personally identifiable information like phone numbers and email
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  6
November 13, 2025


addresses. Mr. Carter indicated that the Development Agreement and associated
documents met all City requirements and were considered complete.

The Applicant, Tanner Webster stated that his team reviewed the October 2025 Planning
Commission meeting and incorporated as much of their feedback as possible, including
decreasing the proposed density and requiring that the first property owner live in the unit.

Chair Cluff asked the Applicant to address parking concerns as public street parking was
not available near the development, five of the proposed units would not have driveways,
and only minimal visitor parking was proposed. Mr. Webster indicated that the
development would have more parking than required by code. Chair Cluff stated that all
other townhomes in the City are up to code, but they have access to public street parking.
Mr. Webster could not provide the specific number of parking stalls but indicated that they
would not be able to sell the homes if they had insufficient parking. Mr. Lethbridge
clarified that City Code indicates that driveways can count as guest parking if a garage is
available, so the 10 units with driveways would count toward guest parking requirements.
It was within the Commission’s scope to determine if that was sufficient, but the proposal
met the minimum standard.

Commissioner Matheson referred to a public comment that indicated people often use
garages for storage and park in the driveway. Mr. Webster stated that garage use would
be controlled by the HOA, and residents would be encouraged to park in their garage. In
response to a follow-up question from Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Carter stated that
the development would include common areas, so an HOA would be required.

Chair Cluff asked if the Applicant had explored the possibility of a single-family
development on the parcel. Mr. Webster stated that they researched it extensively and
tried to consider feedback received from the City Council, Staff, and the public, and the
proposal represented their best effort.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing and noted that the Planning Commission could not
consider general public outcry in its decisions. However, the City Council could consider
public outcry as they are a political body, and the item would be heard by the City Council.
She then reviewed the commenting rules.

Dave Mobley stated that he lives on Jared Circle and was speaking on behalf of the
Riverton Heritage Group of citizens who live east of Redwood Road between 12800
South and Bangerter Highway. He then summarized a letter from the group.

“We are here tonight to state our firm opposition to the proposal by DRH Holdings and
any changes to the current Riverton City General Plan for our area. Our opposition is
based on two main points. (1) Our citizens were deeply engaged in developing our
current General Plan. We did this with full knowledge of the UDOT Redwood Road
expansion and the excess land it would create. In fact, many of us accepted lower
compensation from UDOT based on the understanding that our neighborhood’s 0.50-acre
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                7
November 13, 2025


zoning integrity would be maintained. Our vision has always been that this excess land
would be acquired by neighbors or combined to create new single-family, 0.50-acre lots,
consisted with the plan we all agreed on. (2) We reject the notion that our General Plan
must be changed to accommodate speculators. These groups purchase excess land
from UDOT with full knowledge of the current General Plan and its zoning. We believe
they are now trying to pressure the City into granting a zoning change for their profit at
the expense of the neighborhood’s integrity.

We ask that you give greater consideration to your citizens than those speculators.
Therefore, we propose that Riverton City place a moratorium on all applications for zoning
changes in this area. This would give us time to form a committee of citizens, City Council
members, and staff to develop a specific plan for this UDOT excess land. The RHG has
a 20-year history of successfully working with the City, and we are fully prepared to work
with you again to ensure that the land complies with the spirit of our General Plan and
beautifies the entrance to our City.”

Commissioner Cannon reported that Commissioner Keele needed to be excused due to
a family emergency. As a result, the Planning Commission no longer had a quorum.
However, out of respect for the citizens in attendance, the public comment period would
continue. Mr. Lethbridge stated that if the item was continued, it would be re-noticed to
affected property owners. A transcript would be provided to all Commissioners so those
not in attendance could be made fully aware of the public comments received during the
current meeting.

Commissioner Keele was excused at 8:00 p.m.

Craig Hiller gave his address as 1621 West 13200 South and asked how many public
comments had been received. Mr. Lethbridge stated that all comments received were
made part of the record and read by the Planning Commission, but he did not know the
specific number. Mr. Hiller asked what had changed between the current application and
the one that was rejected in October, as he did not see a difference and did not
understand why it was being considered. He objected to the application and believed the
RR-22 zoning and current land use should stay in place.

Travis Christiansen stated that the proposed rezoning should not be approved. According
to Riverton City Code, the combined parcels would not meet two of the qualifications.
The parcel size of 1.45 acres did not meet the minimum requirement of two acres. If
combined, they still would not conform to the requirement. Additionally, the lots are not
in the downtown area, and therefore, the zoning would not be applicable. Riverton City
Code § 18.57.50 designates three zones that do not have a minimum area requirement:
R-2, R-3, and R-4. RM-6 is a higher-density zone that could apply, and § 18.45.50
indicates the zone can be approved by the City Council on parcels of at least 0.50 acres
that have frontage on a major street and where the use is in compliance with the General
Plan. He believes that creating an exception and rezoning the parcels to RM-14-D should
be denied, as the request did not comply with City Code. The City and its Planning
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  8
November 13, 2025


Department developed the standards that formed and shaped the community that his
family is part of. Deviation from the standards would set a precedent that Riverton is
more interested in development than following its standards and General Plan. He also
believed approval would make denial of future noncompliant rezoning requests more
difficult and recommended that the Planning Commission consider denial of the request.

Blaine Withers stated that he lives near the subject property, and his family were original
landowners in Riverton who had been in the City for over 150 years. He cares deeply
about what kind of community he lives in, what kinds of neighbors he has, and the quality
of life. He requested that the request be rejected and the 0.50-acre zoning be left in
place. He believes a lot of people would like the land to raise animals or grow food, and
that opportunity is lost when a development like this is approved Residents had been
fighting rezoning for three years, as it is their home and they want it left as-is. He served
a mission in England, where centuries-old villages are still intact, and he believes this
area of Riverton should be preserved.

Dean Warkentin stated that he lives across the street and north of the subject property.
He moved to Riverton 27 years ago and raised his eight children here because it was
rural, had a sense of family and community, and did not feel like downtown. He believes
the City’s founding fathers intended for it to be open, with large lots to raise families and
have animals. He expressed concern about water usage, which he calculated to be
150,000 gallons per month for the proposed development. The City was struggling with
infrastructure problems, and continuing to add high-density homes would further diminish
resources. Citizens want the land to remain rural, and he believed the application should
be denied.

Mike Merritt gave his address as 1606 West Dapple Gray Circle, northeast of the subject
property. The proposal was very similar to proposed developments on Redwood Road
north of Riverton Ranch Road that were rejected at least twice by both the Planning
Commission and City Council. It would empty onto a single street and have very little
parking. He did not believe it was a good fit for the area or Riverton.

Commissioner Park returned to the meeting at 8:10 p.m.

Ryan Rudd stated that he grew up on the east side of Interstate 15 and moved to Riverton
11 years ago for the 0.50-acre family parcels and trees. He recently subdivided and sold
three parcels near the subject property. At that time, he could have requested that the
properties be rezoned for higher density, but he decided to protect the area and retain the
0.50-acre single-family residential parcels. He is a real estate and construction attorney
who frequently attends municipal meetings and he understands that sometimes a
different use or zoning is appropriate for unique parcels, but that was not the case with
the subject property. He subdivided and sold the nearby parcels for a lot of money, and
the Applicant had the ability to do that as well. It was not a scenario where the land could
not be sold or used as intended, and therefore, he believed the current zoning should be
maintained. He did not believe there would be resistance if they were seeking a variance
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     9
November 13, 2025


for a small portion of the property. He moved to Riverton because this type of use was
not allowed, and he asked that the Planning Commission reject the proposal.

Ashley Mobley stated that she lives on Jared Circle near the proposed development, and
her family has lived in Riverton for generations. Residents are told that no one wants to
live or build on Redwood Road unless it's high-density housing, but that was not the only
answer. It was simply the most convenient one for the parties who stood to profit. She
believes people would be willing to live in single-family homes on Redwood Road if they
had the option to, but the parcels were not marketed that way, and you can't generate
demand for something you have chosen not to offer. Residents were repeatedly asked
to compromise their lifestyles, property values, and the character of the community so
developers could pursue a more lucrative plan. The parcels were purchased with full
knowledge of the zoning, and the developer could make money within the rules everyone
else follows. She believed rezoning would set a precedent for high-density developments
on Redwood Road and rewrite the community's identity. No proposals had been brought
forward that aligned with the current zoning. She believe it was about respecting the
purpose of zoning, residents’ investments, and the safety and character of the
neighborhood. Not every parcel is meant to be maximized for profit. She urged the
Planning Commission to prioritize the people who live and raise families in Riverton and
would remain long after developers moved on to their next project.

Jenny Burbank gave her address as 13717 South Lovers Lane and indicated that she
had lived in the City for almost 40 years. Her family moved from Holladay and loved the
country feel of Riverton. It was terrifying to see so much pushback from the City when
residents just want to keep what they have always had. She did not believe variances
from the master plan should be allowed when it had only recently been finalized and
asked that the Planning Commission reject the proposal.

Mike Kurz stated that he has lived on Dapper Gray Circle adjacent to the subject property
for over 30 years. He agreed with his neighbors and asked that the current zoning be
retained. The Applicant had made no changes since the proposal was first heard a few
months previously, and a similar development on Riverton Ranch Road was denied by
the City Council. He was concerned that the proposed development would create a safety
issue for neighborhood children. 13200 South is a busy road, and children walk to the
school next door. Fifteen units would add 100 trips per day, which would make the
intersection more dangerous. Riverton is growing and developing, but he believes
developments like this would push residents like him out. He asked that the application
be denied and the property owner find another option.

Randy Moore stated that the application was not the same as the one heard previously
because the first application was for 27 units, and the new application was for 15. All
units would have two-car garages, 10 units would also have parking for two cars in the
driveways, and there would be nine guest parking stalls. If that were increased to 10
stalls, it would allow for four vehicles per unit or 60 total vehicles on the site. He has lived
in the area for a long time and seen a lot of changes. Redwood Road has eight traffic
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                10
November 13, 2025


lanes and is one of the busiest roads in the valley, and property adjacent to the proposed
development was zoned commercial. He asked what would happen to this property and
other remainder parcels if it they were not developed appropriately. The Planning
Commission had a difficult job, but they needed to consider the heavy adjacent uses.

Al Buehler stated that he lives on Riverton Ranch Road. He could not believe the
Applicant’s hutzpah in asking for so many exemptions from the RM-14-D Zone. If they
were allowed to rewrite the zoning ordinance, it would open the door for development
throughout Riverton, and he did not believe the proposal was fair to residents with 0.50-
acre lots.

Josh Aune stated that he owned the Crane House next door to the subject property and
his wife runs the Our Journey Montessori School. The developer had not spoken to him
about their plans. He has been watching the property for some time, and it was auctioned
at a very high price. He believed the proposal for high-density housing was an attempt
to recoup that money, but he did not believe someone’s poor business decisions should
affect the rest of the community. The Crane House fence is as close to the irrigation ditch
as possible. A fence on the subject property may be over the property line, and he did
not think the application should be moved forward when there was a valid property
boundary dispute. He also indicated that the Applicant’s traffic engineer may have failed
to contemplate the Crane House access, as he did not believe City and UDOT
requirements could be met. He recommended that the Applicant not install vinyl fencing.
Both the Aunes and the other adjoining neighbor have livestock, and the neighbor was
forced to cull lambs due to complaints. Allowing high-density housing near livestock
would create more complaints because they are incompatible uses.

Paul Sharp stated that he owns the property to the north of the proposed construction
project. He has lived in Riverton for over 70 years and raised his family and animals in
the City. When Redwood Road was widened, UDOT took 150 feet of his property,
including his home. Three other homes were also taken. He often receives notices
indicating that Riverton does not have enough water for its residents, but they took away
four houses and wanted to build in their place. He moved to Riverton to raise his children
and grandchildren in a place where they could ride a horse or have sheep and cows. His
home was gone, but he still raises animals on the property. The people who moved in
behind him wanted him to get rid of his animals, and he did not have the money to fight
them, so he had to get rid of all four-legged animals, with the exception of his mule. If 15
homes were built next door, they would complain about manure.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed. Chair Cluff thanked
those present for their comments and clarified that the Planning Commission does not
control the agenda. Developers have the right to propose projects on their own land.

Commissioner Cannon applauded the citizens’ for their passion for the community. He
has been a real estate broker and developer for 40 years, and he was a volunteer member
of three state water boards. The Planning Commission tries to make the best decisions
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  11
November 13, 2025


for both residents and the City as a whole. They were dealt a rough hand by UDOT when
they widened Redwood Road, and he was involved in the negotiations on behalf of
homeowners. Mr. Sharp had the opportunity to sell his entire parcel but chose to retain
a portion of the property.

He noted that the item received the most public comments he has heard in his seven
years on the Commission. Property costs are based on risk and return, and the average
age of first-time homebuyers has increased to 40 years old. First-time homebuyers
generally cannot afford a $550,000 home, but the proposal was by far the nicest
townhome product he had seen introduced at this price point. However, he understood
that the citizens present did not believe it was the highest and best use of the property.

Commissioner Cannon reported that the property beside Stampin’ Up! has zoning that
allows for a 55-and-older community, but neighbors rose up against that development.
When he pointed out that the zoning would also allow industrial and warehouse uses,
residents indicated that stopping the project was worth the risk. A new developer
proposed warehouse storage units on the property, and neighbors again spoke out
against the project. He cautioned that the Utah State Legislature was close to passing a
bill that would remove the City’s right to refuse high-density development on major
corridors.

Commissioner Cannon indicated that the proposed access to the property was the best
possible access, regardless of what was developed there. He hoped that the developer
and residents could work together to determine the highest and best use for the property.
The proposal for 15 units was considerably less than the original proposal and in his
opinion, was medium density.

Commissioner Park understood citizens’ apprehension. The Planning Commission
rejected the original proposal for 27 units because it was not the right fit for the property.
His concern was that the legislature seemed determined to take these decisions away
from the community. If cities did not choose to act, he feared that they would no longer
be able to do so. They needed to find middle ground. It was a sensitive property, but
they had to be realistic about how it could be developed and the risk of a much worse
project being approved by the State in the future.

Commissioner Matheson stated that he rode a tractor down a dirt road in that area of
Riverton when he was five years old, and he seized the first opportunity he had to return
there as an adult 29 years ago. Riverton is growing, and his son cannot afford to buy a
house in the City. Compromises needed to be made. The proposal had been downsized,
and he did not believe the project would have a big negative impact on the neighboring
0.50-acre properties. He believed the proposal was a compromise, and it might be a
good thing. Regarding water concerns, if two property owners removed their turf and
replaced it with xeriscape, that would cover the water needs of five townhomes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              12
November 13, 2025


Chair Cluff stated that there are a lot of competing interests in the area. She saw the
value in the community wanting to curate the area to control zoning and maintain a certain
atmosphere. Multiple projects with similar density had been approved in other parts of
the City, but she had difficulty determining the project’s suitability because the area is
very low density and there would be a large disparity in property values of the townhomes
versus surrounding homes. She was concerned that the proposed parking was not
adequate. However, she liked the appearance of the townhomes. High-density housing
would be denied in other areas, but it made more sense on properties like this on main
corridors. A townhome complex near her parents’ home in Herriman sold out instantly.
They are in demand because people want to be homeowners but cannot afford to buy
homes on 0.50-acre lots. She understood both sides of the argument, but she was
inclined to recommend denial of the application due to the property location.

Commissioner Cannon suggested tabling the item until a full quorum was present.
Commissioner Park stated that all absent Commissioners would be supplied with a
transcript of the meeting, as well as all written comments received on the item. It was a
very sensitive topic, and the Planning Commission wanted to ensure that it was given
thorough consideration. Mr. Carter added that due to the circumstances, it would be best
to table the matter to a later date, as that would cure any procedural problems that may
have arisen due to the circumstances. Mr. Lethbridge stated that items are typically
tabled to a date certain, but transcripts take longer to obtain than meeting summaries.
The item would be re-noticed so the public would be aware of the new meeting date.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission TABLE Application
PLZ-25-4007, “Moore Rezone and General Plan Amendment,” to a date uncertain.
Commissioner Park seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

Commissioner Park stated that the Planning Commission is not trying to delay a decision.
Rather, they wanted to ensure that they are doing the best they could for the community,
and to do so they need input from every Commissioner.

      D.     'UTAH COLLECTIVE SD REZONE,' PLZ-25- 4008, AN APPLICATION TO
             REZONE APPROXIMATELY 1.28-ACRES LOCATED AT 2673 WEST
             11800 SOUTH. THE PROPERTY CURRENTLY OPERATES AS A
             PRIVATE SCHOOL IN AN RR-22 RESIDENTIAL ZONE UNDER A
             PREVIOUSLY APPROVED CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.             THE
             APPLICANT IS REQUESTING A SPECIAL DESIGNATION ZONING
             OVERLAY BE CREATED FOR THE PROPERTY TO ALLOW FOR A
             NUMBER OF SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS FROM THE EXISTING ZONING
             CODE. APPLICANT - BEN MILAR

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission TABLE Application PLZ-
25-4008, ‘Utah Collective SD Rezone,’ to the December 11, 2025, Planning
 Received
   Public
Comment
From:            Stewart Grow
To:              Jason Lethbridge
Subject:         Support for Proposed Moore Rezone Request RR-22 to RM-6
Date:            Thursday, March 12, 2026 10:52:20 AM




March 12, 2026

Riverton City Planning Commission & Riverton City Council
Riverton City
12830 South Redwood Road
Riverton, UT 84065

Dear Members of the Planning Commission and City Council,

We are writing to express our support for the proposed rezone of the referenced property from
RR-22 to RM-6.

First, we support this proposal because the RM-6 designation limits development to single-
family dwellings. This helps ensure that any future development will remain consistent with
the character of the surrounding neighborhoods. Maintaining single-family housing in this
location helps preserve the overall feel of the area while still allowing for responsible
development.

Second, in previous rezone discussions in this area, many residents have worked hard to
preserve single-family zoning. In that context, we feel the RM-6 designation represents a
reasonable compromise for properties that are directly adjacent to Redwood Road. Properties
that front major corridors often face different development pressures, and RM-6 allows for
modestly smaller lots while still keeping the housing type compatible with nearby
neighborhoods. Ideally, parcels that do not directly front Redwood Road would serve as a
gradual transition back to RR-22 or similar zoning, helping buffer existing homes from higher-
density areas. We recognize that this type of gradual transition can be difficult to accomplish
through a single rezone request, and we ask that this principle be kept in mind for future
proposals. For this specific property, however, the parcel is not deep enough to realistically
provide that type of step-down buffer.

We would also like to clarify that our support for this rezone should not be interpreted as
support for spot rezoning in general. For future rezoning requests, we do not support changing
RR-22 zoning to a different designation when a parcel is completely surrounded by RR-22
properties. We believe maintaining the integrity of established zoning areas is important for
protecting existing neighborhoods and ensuring thoughtful long-term planning. Our support in
this case is based on the fact that this parcel directly fronts Redwood Road and functions as a
remnant property along a major corridor, making it a unique situation.

Finally, we would like to acknowledge that the developer has made a sincere effort to work
with surrounding residents and the broader community. We are grateful for the willingness
shown by both the developer and neighbors to communicate, compromise, and seek a solution
that respects the interests of existing residents while recognizing the challenges of developing
property that fronts a major roadway. That collaborative approach has helped produce a
proposal that fits the location without creating a significant adverse impact on the surrounding
neighborhood.
For these reasons, we support the proposed rezone from RR-22 to RM-6 and appreciate the
Planning Commission and City Council’s thoughtful consideration of this request.

Sincerely,

Allison and Stewart Grow

Riverton Ranch Neighborhood
Riverton, Utah
Comment 2 – Moore Rezone – Collard

Hi,

I am not able to attend PC meeting tonight, but I wanted to share my opinion.

I am in favor of the R-6 rezone on Redwood Road and 13200 S. I like that it is single-family
homes, and I like the site plan of 8 homes on the 1.5 acre lot. I don't know what conditional
uses they are asking for, but I have seen the site plan of 8 homes and I think it is a good use
of this property. I obviously don't want parking to be allowed on 13200 S, but I don't think
this will negatively impact traffic or the area.

Thank you for taking the time to listen to my opinions.

Missy
Comment 1 – Moore Rezone – Soderman


To the planning department at Riverton City -
My email is regarding the request from Taylor Moore with DRH Holdings proposed rezoning of
1.45 acres located at 13153, 13171 & 13191 so Redwood Road to "Medium High Density
Residential" .
I do not want to have this zoning changed to Medium High Density Residential. I want it to
remain the Estate Density Residential that it currently is.
I built my home in Riverton over 30 years ago because there were large lots and acreages. That
is what this town has been about. Unfortunately some of that has gone away over the years
and that is just one reason why it is so important that this property not be re-zoned.
Medium High density housing puts a strain on the surrounding area by bringing more traffic to
an already VERY busy Redwood Road, and would add more traffic to that along with adding
traffic to 13200 So. We do not need that. It is already so hard to get out onto Redwood Rd as it
is.
More people would mean more kids going to Riverton Elementary, Oquirrh Middle School and
Riverton High School. We don't need more students in these already full schools.
Even though these are "homes" being proposed, inevitably too many of this type of medium
high density housing become nothing but rentals. Rentals invite a transient population which
brings crime, and multiple families living in one "home". We do not need this in our town.
Please do not approve this zoning change. We long-time Riverton residents want to have our
beloved city stay the way it is and was designed to be.


Thank you -


Corie Soderman
1754 W 13235 So
