                                       MEMORANDUM
To:                   Honorable Mayor and City Council

From:                 Planning Department

Date:                 January 21, 2020

Subject:              Text Change, -Amendments to the Land Use Code Sections 18.190 and 18.135,
                      addressing Seasonal and Temporary Commercial Uses.

PL NO.:               19-5003-Seasonal Uses


The Planning Commission, following a public hearing, voted to recommend approval of the text
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission
recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #20-02, amending Sections 18.190 and 18.135 addressing
Temporary and Seasonal Commercial Uses, as described in Exhibit “A”.


Background

Seasonal Temporary Commercial Uses such as shaved ice stands, Christmas Tree lots, and fireworks
stands are frequent among Utah communities. Riverton City’s ordinances have in the past only broadly
addressed how these uses are reviewed and approved. This proposed ordinance addition clarifies where
they may be located in Riverton City and codifies a process and criteria for reviewing and approving
temporary commercial uses, and includes the information that must be provided by applicants. The
proposed amended clarifies that such uses would not be allowed on residential property.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of this ordinance amendment.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1.     Exhibit A-Proposed Ordinance (3 pages showing proposed insertions underlined with the existing code. No
                 deletions are necessary.)




Report by: TJP
1/14/2020
18.190.090 Prohibited home occupations.
The following uses are not compatible with residential uses, and in order to protect the health, safety and
welfare of residents from noise, nuisance, traffic, fire hazard and other possible business uses that are in
excess of that customarily associated with the neighborhood, the following uses are prohibited:


(16) Outdoor seasonal retail sales/services such as Christmas Trees, Fireworks, Pumpkin Patches,
Haunted Houses, Corn Mazes, etc.

                                                Chapter 18.135
                                          GENERAL REGULATIONS


Sections:
18.135.010       Purpose.
18.135.020       Amendments.
18.135.025       Reapplication following denial of rezone application.
18.135.030       Supplementary and qualifying regulations.
18.135.040       Buildings.
18.135.050       Streets and rights-of-way.
18.135.060       Lot improvements.
18.135.070       Fences and visual obstructions.
18.135.080       Conservation of value.
18.135.090       Animals and fowl.
18.135.100       Nonconforming building and uses.
18.135.200       Temporary Commercial Uses.



18.135.200 Temporary Commercial Uses.


(1)Temporary Commercial Uses shall be defined as commercial uses which do not exceed sixty (60) days
in duration and which do not require permanent structures or improvements which are not already
established with an approved permanent use. Such uses may include, but are not limited to, shaved ice
stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands. A temporary commercial use may only be conducted on
a commercially zoned parcel. Temporary commercial uses shall not cause or create a nuisance or
hazard and shall conform to all requirements of this title. All trash will be removed and the property will
be restored to a clean condition after the temporary commercial use has been terminated.


(2)Temporary Commercial Uses can be approved by the Planning Department. At the discretion of the
Planning Manager Temporary Commercial Uses may be referred to the Planning Commission as

Report by: TJP
1/14/2020
Conditional Temporary Commercial Uses. In such cases the applicant will be responsible for the noticing
fees.


(3) Temporary Commercial Uses shall obtain and/or provide the following:


          (a) A Riverton City business license for commercial uses.


          (b) Property owner's authorization.


          (c) Building or electrical permit (if necessary).


          (d) Plot plan showing the location of the use, buildings and structures, setbacks, parking, access
          to public streets and adjacent uses.


          (e) Hours of operation.


          (f) Salt Lake Valley Health Department approval (if necessary).


          (g) Fire Department approval (if necessary).


          (h) Mass gathering permit (if necessary).




Report by: TJP
1/14/2020
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             6
September 26, 2019

             applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City
             Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
             Codes.

      2.     The applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.     The total floor area may exceed 50% of the basement as shown on the
             applicant’s site plans.

      4.     A maximum of 12 children at any time.

      5.     A maximum of 18 children per day.

      6.     Total Vehicle Trips (drop-offs and/or pick-ups) may not exceed 24 per
             day.

      7.     The home occupation may utilize only one (1) non-resident employee per
             day.

Findings of Fact:

      1.     The use is within the limits provided in the Conditional Use Description
             in the Ordinance.

Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion.               The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
      CHANGES TO THE LAND USE CODE REGARDING SEASONAL USES.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the above matter was continued from a previous meeting and
staff was now proposing three changes to the Code to address concerns with seasonal
commercial uses. They are currently located throughout the City in commercial areas but
there was concern about them encroaching into residential areas. Staff also wanted to
codify and include in the written ordinance what has been a long-standing tradition in the
City with respect to how to regulate seasonal commercial uses. The following changes were
proposed to three sections of the Code:

      1.     Add Seasonal Uses to Section 18.190.090.

      2.     Create a new Temporary Commercial Uses Section in the General
             Regulations Chapter in the Land Use Ordinance and include criteria.

      3.     What is to be required with Temporary Commercial Uses.

Mr. Prestwich stated that the matter was properly noticed and no comments were received.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 7
September 26, 2019

Commissioner Cannon asked about the challenges experienced and perceived it as being
a self-policing ordinance. Mr. Prestwich explained that staff’s primary concern is that an
applicant forgets to come in and apply. If the City treats all new sites as conditional uses,
they need six weeks to get property notice it and conduct a public hearing. The intent was
to formalize a process that would allow staff to issue a permit quickly if the property
submissions are provided.

In response to a question raised, Mr. Prestwich stated that prohibited uses are listed in
Section 18.190.090 and include bed and breakfasts, motels, and any similar use involving
boarding or room rental. The Short-Term Rental Ordinance modifies that language. The
new language does not appear in the Code because it has not yet been ratified by the City
Council. Once that occurs, that section will be modified. Commissioner James wanted to
ensure that the clarification is made since as written, it is in conflict.

Commissioner Hansen asked if there should be consistency with regard to examples of
allowable uses or eliminate them altogether and refer to them as temporary uses. He
wanted to prevent it from being used as a loophole. Commissioner Hansen suggested they
be consistent in terms of the examples used. With regard to the actual amendment, it
specifies that it is not to exceed 60 days. Mr. Prestwich stated that it is a rough number
because a fireworks stand might be up for seven days but 60 days might not be long enough
for a snow shack. In that case, the applicant might simply wish to renew the license at no
additional cost.

Commissioner Rushton commented on commercial zones and pointed out that Redwood
Road is largely still zoned residential and there are empty spaces where temporary uses
would not be allowed. It was noted that a property must be zoned commercial in order to
allow a temporary use, which is restrictive. Mr. Prestwich stated that the areas identified are
exceptional. In the area of the pumpkin patch on 3600 West, all of the fields are zoned
Commercial although the home was zoned Residential. In that case, the property owner
can continue with that use. Most of the ground owned by Farmer Luke is zoned Commercial
Professional Office. Many of the operations that take place on his property are operated as
home occupations. Commissioner Rushton remarked that if someone were to present a
business plan for a temporary use in the area, the Commission should be willing to review
it.

Chair Russell opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Hansen moved that the Planning Commission recommend approval of
the proposed text amendment for Chapter 18.190 and Chapter 18.135, as described in
Exhibit “A” based on the following Finding of Fact:

       1.     It meets the ordinances and the application of the text.

Commissioner James seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chair Russell-Aye,
Commissioner Hansen-Aye, Commissioner James-Aye, Commissioner Rushton-Nay,
Commissioner Cannon-Aye. The motion passed 4-to-1.
