                           MEMORANDUM
To:           Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:         Planning Department
Date:         January 12, 2023
Subject:      23-03 “Wright-Parkside Rezone” – Proposed Rezone Of Approximately
              6.1 Acres, 12995 S. Sand Hollow Drive, from RM-14-SD-EHOV to RM-14-
              SD, removing the Elderly Housing Overlay, Applicant- Wright Homes


On January 12, 2023, the Planning Commission held a hearing to review this rezone
application. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted
to recommend approval, with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #23-03, rezoning 6.1 acres located at 12995 S.
Sand Hollow Drive, from RM-14-SD-EHOV to RM-14-SD, removing the Elderly Housing
Overlay.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by Wright Homes seeking to rezone an
existing development consisting of approximately 6.1-acres located at 12995 South Sand Hollow
Drive. The subject property is a triangular parcel located south of 12600 South near 4245 West and
is also known as “Parkside Phase 3”. It is located south of the Rocky Mountain Power Corridor and
just east of the Welby-Jacob Canal.

The subject property is currently zoned RM-14-SD-EHOV which means Residential Multi-Family, 14-
units per acre. SD is an abbreviation for “Specific Development” meaning the Rezone Ordinance
had additional zoning requirements which are specific to the property. EHOV is an abbreviation for
“Elderly Housing Overlay” which gives some allowances and some additional requirements related
to providing an age restricted (55 and older) housing development.

The current zoning was requested by a previous developer and was approved by the City Council on
February 21, 2017 by Ordinance 17-04. The 2017 rezone was a layout proposed by the developer
which included the subject property together with an additional 30-acres (about 36-acres total)
shown as one project area. The entire 36-acres was assigned the Zone RM-14-SD (Residential
Multi-family, 14 units/acre, with a Specific Development Overlay). In addition, the southern 6.1-acres
(the subject property) had the EHOV (Elderly Housing Overlay) applied as requested by the
developer.

The north properties which were zoned RM-14-SD became Parkside Phase 1 and Phase 2
(consisting of plats 1, 2 3 & 4). The site plans for these phases were subsequently approved by the
City and are now nearly built out. The southern property, which is the subject of this rezone
request, is also known as Parkside Phase 3 (containing plats 5 & 6). The site plan for Parkside
Phase 3 was approved by the Planning Commission at the December 10, 2020 PC meeting. It was
approved with the condition that; “The site and structures shall remain in compliance with the
requirements of the Elderly Housing Overlay Zone, including age-related limitations on occupancy,
to the extent allowed by Utah State Code. “

Parkside Phase 3 is currently under construction and building permits have been issued. Phase 3
is limited by the inclusion of the Elderly Housing Overlay to senior (55+) housing. The applicant’s
request for rezone is to remove the Elderly Housing Overlay portion of the zoning.

Neighboring properties to the north and northeast are zoned R-14-SD. Properties to the west
(over the Welby-Jacob Canal) are Zoned R-4-SD in the Cottages at Western Springs
development. To the south the zoning is SLR Specific Plan which allows residential or
commercial according to the SLR MDA and SLR SDD. The General Plan designation for the
subject property is “High Density Residential”.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s
website. .

The Planning Commission, following a public hearing on this item, voted to recommend approval.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Public Notice including Area Map.
       2.   Rezone Application.
       3.   Developer Letter.
       4.   Zoning Map.
       5.   General Plan Map.
       6.   Ordinance 17-04, Rezone creating current zoning.
       7.   Planning Commission minutes for this item.
October 27, 2022



Re: Parkside plats 5 & 6

To Whom It May Concern:

Parkside LLC, an affiliate of Wright Homes, was not the master developer of the Parkside subdivision.
We purchased the entitled property starting back in 2018. Plats 1, 2, 3 and 4 in the subdivision are near
final completion and the subdivision is nearly full. We recently finished road construction of the final
phase, plats 5 & 6, the plats were recorded, and vertical construction is underway of the city approved
“specific design” three-story town homes.

We feel our request for rezone from RM-14-SD/EHOV to RM-14-SD is warranted for the following
reasons:

    1. Plats 5 & 6 were approved in 2017 under the EHOV code. The approved zone designation was
       RM-14-SD/EHOV. The EHOV portion of the city code did not list the RM-14 as a qualified zone.
    2. Since approval in 2017, the EHOV has been rewritten and includes more specific and
       appropriate Development Standards for a 55+ targeted product. The new Development
       Standard requires “dwelling units” within the EHOV to include a minimum of one “mobility/age
       friendly” feature per unit of density. There is a total of seven “mobility/age friendly” features
       listed in the current Development Standards. With a density of 14 units/acre, Parkside would be
       required to include all seven Development Standards. The three-story townhomes currently
       approved in Parkside plat 5 & 6 are disqualified by the first item, (a) main level living, among
       others on the list.
    3. An attached three-story product is not a specific design that will prove to be a successful
       product in an EHOV zone.

The market has recently evolved. Wright Homes has a 55+ property in another municipality. That
project includes single-family homes with main level living. Homes are selling, even with changes in the
market. We have tried to generate interest in the three-story product currently approved for plats 5 & 6
in Parkside, but have had no success. The city has improved the EHOV since plats 5 & 6 were approved,
which better specifies more appropriate criterion in the EHOV zone. We request consideration that the
EHOV designation for Parkside plats 5 & 6 be removed. We will not make structural or cosmetic changes
to the product originally approved for plats 5 & 6. It is simply our intent to sell it as a multi-generational
product with no specific requirement of age to be on title.




                                 527 E. Pioneer Road Suite #100, Draper, UT 84020
                                               Office: 801.523.9014
                                                 wrighthomes.com
                                                       NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                              The Riverton City Council will hold a public hearing on Tuesday,
                                              February 7, 2023, beginning at 7:00 p.m. at the Riverton City
                                              Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                              comment on the following application:
                                   Wright Homes has submitted an application to rezone an existing
development consisting of approximately 6.1-acres located at 12995 South Sand Hollow Drive. The
property is currently zoned R-14-SD/EHOV (Residential Medium Density with an Elderly Housing
Overlay). The requested zoning is R-14-SD (Residential Medium Density). The development is
currently limited by the inclusion of the Elderly Housing Overlay to senior (55+) housing. The
applicant’s request is to remove the Elderly Housing Overlay portion of the zoning.




You received this notice because Salt Lake County property records indicate you own property within
1,000 feet of the subject property. Additional information may be obtained from the Riverton City
Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                     HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public, and public comment will be taken. The staff report will be available for public review through the
City website prior to the meeting. Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available
following the meeting. Public comment for this item may be submitted via the City website, by email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or
by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the City Council.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the City Council. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
Original Rezone
Documentation
                                                        RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
                                                         ORDINANCE NO. 17- 04


AN ORDINANCE REZONING 36 ACRES LOCATED AT 4245 WEST 12600 SOUTH FROM PCC
PLANNED COMMERCIAL CENTER) TO RM- 14- SD ( RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY, 14
UNITS/ ACRE         MAX.            WITH           SPECIFIC    DEVELOPMENT           DESIGNATIONS)             AND    RM- 14-
SD/ EHOV ( RM-14- SD WITH ELDERLY HOUSING OVERLAY), RIVERTON RANCH, LLC,
APPLICANT


      WHEREAS, the Riverton City Planning Commission has received public input and made a
recommendation regarding the above listed zoning amendment; and

           WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing to consider said zoning amendment; and

        WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the public
to amend the Riverton City Zoning Map by rezoning 36 acres located at approximately 4245 West 12600
South from PCC to RM- 14- SD( Residential Multi-Family, 14 Units/Acre Max. With Specific
Development Designations) and RM- 14- SD/EHOV( RM- 14- SD with Elderly Housing Overlay).

           NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Riverton City, Utah as
follows:


           Section 1.        The Riverton City Zoning Map shall be, and hereby is, amended to reflect the
                             following changes as shown in Exhibit" A" attached hereto.

           Section 2.        Specific Development Designations shall be as follows:
                                   1. Land use and density shall be as described on Exhibit` B".
                                   2. Exterior materials on all units shall include a minimum of thirty-five( 35) percent
                                           brick or stone.

                                   3. There shall be connectivity from open space in this project to the development to the
                                           west.



           Section 3.        This ordinance shall take effect upon passage.

                                                                                                       21St
           PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this                                 day of February
2017 by the following vote:

           Council Member Sheldon Stewart                           Yes        No
           Council Member Brent Johnson                             Yes        No
           Council Member Trent Staggs                              Yes        No
           Council Member Paul Wayman                               Yes        No
           Council Member          '   cia
                             y1ICIIIi1f;'
                                              Tingey           7 Yes           No

                        s1
                              v GRTO' Y —.
                                                               RIVERTON CITY
                               q""'p- -.-'
                                           i-
                                            R
                               d       ©

                                                                   VA2r24,           NA         ciff)2Q64Crfrit
ATTEST:

                              7947                             Bill Applegarth, Mayor




    4A.         t.
Vi,_ ma Loader, MMC

City Recorder
JTH    1111
              mf                  r7
                             rE__.,..




                l                                 r




1
r
      it      aim
               RR- 22



                        v•
                              s   s   Ns

                                  :Am_ •


                                  SD.
                                            Ns




                                                 PCC•


                Ss %•        Vs •          ss




                 1% %




                               e.
                              l‘
                               A, ''.
Exhibit B


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          o.




                   Area 1                                                             1          i       Area 3                                                                                                                ow—
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t


        n Area 2
                                                                                                                                                                                   u:
                      Q                                                                                                                                                                 Area 1: Townhomes-                    14 units/acre
                        J                                                  QQQ
                 co                                                                                                                                                                                            WUr        '




                                             trJVVO' J'' ' JO''                                  7- J+<
                                                                                                      I:                     ovPJJ                       '       7t7c3                T3t   Gri3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rto"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        o'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                         1N               a


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IM

                C36                .             a r i 9-O-aJ:a=;>
                                                                 G>-                                     04.
                                                                                                           1aL) O'                                                                                                                                                         Y
                                                                                                                                                    5                                                                                                        w"
      44e                                Firs                     0hi J               v(:
                                                                                        ito                e)r                     rirs
                                                                                                                                                                                   0•                                                      O    •
      ap                                             Area 2           etached Cottages•                                  8 unit             acre


      os
      o .` k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Area 3: Elderly
 r^                                                                                                                                                                                         Q          0        0                     rJ                                    Housing Overlay
                                                              V                                                                  vw'`•^'. li                                                          W""
                                                                                                                                                                                                        :, ,!                          r
                 OD                                                                                                                                                                                                               8                                          Assisted Living/
                                                                                                                                                                               1 i"                                                                                            Congregate Care
                                                                                                                                                                                 tl
                                                                                                                                                                              NNOIt                                                            i.
                          I

                i          i=                1                    1
                                                                                                 01 !                                   1   1
                                                                                                                                                    11              1+                                                                 J,_
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sa-*'"' ----          0 cbQ;;t;       r'^,{




             111, III11 011                                       1 11 IIIIli'1111161          11111          11                                                                                                                                    J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Qogi
             11 1€=i 11 11                       Tilt                 t!    ti    fi' i it     1ti¢ lii lii i 1i                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Y
                it
                                         o       t
                                                     fi           1 {!'         i i•!                                   i«                  s•? ,
      iit
      11= 11 i3 iii II = 1111                                     11 41 111if 1 11 11it liit • iiii==ii J11:
                                                                             r
                                                                                           11=                                                                                                        i         ,
                                                                                                             111 1
      III. 1 ii, is1( +'. II III=                                                                       1111,- 1-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i,.
                                           if?=! 1'. i= II                      71iI=                r         I;            :
                                                                                                                                                                         1:


      1 j!
             r
                1
                      r
                          rli! 7
                              r   1e


                                           111
                                           iil+pi 1 i
                                                         1 1 7.
                                                          yerP!
                                                                i a !! 1   111: I: i1 t1 1 rlirrli .
                                                                          8`= i I; ie« 1 S i1, 11 151711
                                                                         Pf1771°
            e >               i1 1 111111. 411/111`
                                   11•
                                   l 1111    a                               ge                                 4"
        1(                                                        :« i1 S S 11111 IS,' 11
                              11II I111/
                                                                                                                                  ael

       1111 = 11                                 11111 1                                                            1= 11111111= 111111 11111; 11111
                                                                                                                             r                  I
                                                                            111                          i 1
                                                                                          111111
                                        1=
            1     11I             111 1
                                  119=                        j                             1"       6              5        II
            illil=11              IIit1 111111 11111111;                                                   11 11111111111/ 1111
      ii,                                                                        11
                                                                                          111ii1111,
                                                                                                                                                                 liipilling




                                                                                                                                                             1
                          r
                                                                                                                                                                              I)
                                                                                                                                                                                                a r             y                                                          it
                 ND
   Yp




                      Fq9
                        OA
                                                                                                Item No. B. 1
                             Issue Paper
 RIVERTON CITY
          fir..

        FOUNDED 1565


Presenter/ Submitted By:                       Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director


Subject:                                                                           Meeting Date:
                                                                                   February 21, 2017
REZONE, REZONING 36 ACRES AT 4245 WEST 12600
SOUTH FROM PCC ( PLANNED COMMERCIAL CENTER) TO
                                                                                   Fiscal Impact:
RM- 14 ( RESIDENTIAL MULTI- FAMILY 14 UNITS PER ACRE),
                                                                                   N/ A
RIVERTON RANCH LLC, APPLICANT

                                                                                   Funding Source:
                                                                                   N/ A


Background:


Riverton Ranch LLC has submitted this application requesting the rezone of 36 acres located at 4245 West
12600 South. The property is currently zoned PCC ( Planned Commercial Center), which is a zone that
allows      for large, regional scale commercial uses.       Properties to the east and south of the subject property
will    remain zoned         PCC.   Properties to the west are zoned R- 4 SD ( Residential 10, 000 Square Foot Lots
                                                            1/
Specific Development), RR- 22 ( Rural Residential                2   Acre Lots) and R- 1 ( Residential 1 Acre Lots). To the
north on the adjacent side of 12600 South properties are also zoned R- 4 SD and RR- 22 with some R- 2
zoning ( Residential 19, 000 Square Foot Lots).

The Planning Commission voted to recommend APPROVAL of the rezone request at RM- 14. Following the
Planning Commission hearing, this application was presented to the City Council for discussion. Based on
feedback from that meeting, the applicant has modified the proposed zoning to include Specific
Development designations consistent with the uses presented to the Planning Commission and City
Council. The SD designations limit development type and density in two main areas of the project. Adjacent
to the canal on the west side, the zoning would limit density to 8 units per acre, with detached cottage- style
units required. The eastern portion of the property would limited to 14 units per acre, with more traditional
townhome- style units allowed. Finally, the southern- most portion of the property is designated for

congregate care/ assisted living, and the zoning for that area is proposed as RM- 14- SD/ EHOV, putting the
Elderly Housing Overlay in place to limit development to elderly housing. The Specific Development
designation also requires 35% of the exterior to be brick or stone, as opposed to the 25% required in the
underlying zoning. As Specific Development Designations, these restrictions will be part of the zoning tied
to the property, and will be in effect regardless of ownership of the property.

Recommendation:


On January 12, 2017, the Planning Commission voted to recommend APPROVAL of this rezone application.

Proposed Motion:


 I move the City Council adopt Ordinance No. 17- 04 - Rezoning 36 acres located at 4245 West 12600
South from PCC ( Planned Commercial Center) to RM- 14- SD ( Residential Multi- Family 14 Units Per Acre
with Specific Development Designations) and RM- 14- SD/ EHOV( RM- 14- SD with Elderly Housing
Overlay), with the following Specific Development Designations:
1.      Land use and density shall be as described on Exhibit" B".
2.      Exterior materials on all units shall include a minimum of thirty- five ( 35) percent brick or stone."
                                 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING

                                                                                                      I


       I, Virginia Loader, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby certify

that the foregoing Ordinance No. 17- 04 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on the 21st day of

February 2017 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following locations:
       1.    City Hall

       2. Riverton Library

       3.    Riverton City Website



Dated this 22nd day of February 2017.




                                                          Vi f'a Loader,        C
       cg'         L]                                     Riverton City Recorder



                 7947
             F           P
                   F
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  2
January 12, 2023

Mr. Lethbridge reported that they are not amending the plan or changing direction and
2023 is the end of the Moderate-Income Housing Element. As a result, they will be going
through a comprehensive update with the Planning Commission and City Council later in
the year. Tonight’s action was narrowly focused and involves adopting an amendment to
the plan that will be done by ordinance. It specifies that wherever in the existing plan they
refer to the strategies, they will utilize the language from the newly-adopted State Code.
Staff recommended approval with final adoption by the City Council.

There were no public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of the amended Moderate-Income Housing Element of the Riverton
City General Plan updating the language of the selected strategies to correspond
with the State of Utah guidelines, as described. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Cannon. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

       B.     REZONE - WRIGHT-PARKSIDE REZONE (ELDERLY HOUSING
              OVERLAY), PLZ-22-4010, A PROPOSAL TO REZONE AN EXISTING
              DEVELOPMENT OF 6.1 ACRES AT 12995 SOUTH SAND HOLLOW
              DRIVE FROM CURRENT ZONING OF R-14-SD/EHOV (RESIDENTIAL
              MEDIUM DENSITY WITH AN ELDERLY HOUSING OVERLAY) TO R-14-
              SD (RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY).    APPLICANT - WRIGHT
              HOMES.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and described the proposed rezone and
identified the location of the property on a map displayed. Notice was sent to 371
recipients within a 1,000-foot buffer. The Planning Commission will act as a legislative
recommending body and forward a recommendation to the City Council who will conduct
a second public hearing. A second notice will be sent prior to that hearing. The City
Council will make the final decision. The property is General Planned for high-density
residential with 8 to 12 dwelling units per acre. The property is zoned RM-14, which was
applied with a specific Development Overlay and an overlay for elderly housing. The
property was done as one SD and included was a portion of the project that contained
the Elderly Housing Overlay. The rezone was completed by the City Council in February
2017 and was first applied for in the fall of 2016. At that time, the Planning Commission
recommended approval with a split of housing types. There was discussion about
creating a buffer between the residential on the west side of the canal and the anticipated
commercial in a PCC Zone to the east.

The project had gone through a few name changes but was now known as the Parkside
Project. There was discussion of how to create a buffer. The Planning Commission
recommended RM-14. The City Council reviewed the Planning Commission minutes and
wanted to further specify that. They worked with the developer and ultimately adopted
the ordinance that set aside different areas with different designations. Area 1 includes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     3
January 12, 2023

townhomes and condominiums with a density of 14 units per acre.                   The orange
represented single-family housing with a density of eight units per acre.

Mr. Prestwich reported that in December 2017 the Planning Commission approved the
Preliminary Site Plan. It included Phases 1, 2, and 3. The Rocky Mountain Power
Corridor was identified. Rocky Mountain Power holds title to the property and the
developer is required to obtain easements to access the property. Phases 1 and 2 were
approved for final plat in 2018 and construction was underway. In September 2019, the
developer, Riverton Ranch, applied for RM-14 zoning and applied for a rezone to remove
the elderly housing from Phase 3. The Planning Commission met in January 2020 and
recommended approval of removing the overlay. The City Council met in February 2020
and when it seemed that the City Council was not going to support the rezone, the
applicant withdrew his application and did not reapply.

In December 2020, the final site plan for Phase 3 was applied for by Riverton Ranch and
approval was granted by the Planning Commission. It included a condition that the units
be age-restricted. On March 16, 2021, the final plans for the project were accepted for
construction. The roads have since been built within the project and some of the open
space was still under construction. Work was underway on the two buildings on the
southwest corner.

The applicant was requesting that the Commission consider his reasons for the rezone
and would like to remove the Elderly Housing Overlay from Phase 3 to eliminate the age
restriction. The intent was to keep the existing site plan in place and remove the overlay.
Staff received a number of comments, which were provided to the Commission. They
would also be forwarded to the City Council. Concern was expressed by the neighbors,
particularly those to the west.

Commissioner Cannon asked about infrastructure and stated that currently, it appears
that all of the infrastructure is in. Mr. Prestwich reported that he visited the site earlier in
the day but had not seen the bond releases or any inspection reports. It appeared that
the roads and curbing were in but the landscaping was not. The underground work
appeared to be complete as well.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cannon, Mr. Prestwich clarified that
the current applicant did not do the entitlement or development work. Commissioner
Cannon asked if a developer were to come in today and request this density if the existing
infrastructure would be sufficient to accommodate the zoning. He stated that it appears
that when it was originally done, the triangular piece was designated as senior housing.
Mr. Prestwich stated that the applicant’s original request was for RM-14, which was
recommended by the Planning Commission in January 2017. By February of that same
year when the City Council approved it, it included the Elderly Housing Overlay.

Commissioner Cannon asked if the roads were appropriately sized for anything other than
senior housing. City Engineer, Matt Cassel, was asked about the difference in traffic
volume and was told that 10 trips per day are envisioned for residential housing.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
January 12, 2023

Mr. Cassel took the 2017 study conducted by the developer and adjusted some of the
numbers. He explained that 55+ housing does typically generate fewer trips than
standard housing. Townhome units typically average six trips per day per home. 55+
housing generates 3 ½ to 4 trips by shifting the units to residential increased the number
of trips. Previously it was 2,826 trips per day for the development. That increased to
3,069 or 8 ½% more trips due to the triangular piece moving from 55+ housing. During
the morning peak hours the number of trips increased by 27 or 12%. The evening peak
hours increased by 28 trips or 10%. The increase on average was 10%. He stated that
the roads should be able to handle the increased volume.

Commissioner Cannon asked if the zoning at the time was put in place properly to meet
City standards when it was approved. Mr. Prestwich stated that it was approved as an
SD, which has a base zone of RM-14. The SD, the overlay, and the Elderly Housing
Overlay allow for the addition or modification of existing standards in the Zoning
Ordinance. He noted that it was properly approved by the City Council with the overlays
and the additional limitations and restrictions outlined in the SD Ordinance.

Commissioner Rushton stated that in looking over the 2017 Preliminary Site Plan,
Section 2 item 3 states that there shall be connectivity from open space in the project to
the development to the west. He understood that as of today, there is no open space in
this project as it was loaded in Phase III. The 2020 Meeting Minutes state that it must be
within 90 days of the Occupancy Permit and amenities completed within six months of
the occupancy permit. From 2017 to the present, all residents in Phases I and II have no
amenities, and residents to the west have no access to the amenities because they do
not exist. He recognized that any delays in completing Phase III and getting an occupancy
permit would further delay the amenities. Mr. Prestwich remarked that there is open
space in what will be the walking path and they will return to complete the green space
later. Amenities within several open spaces are installed that were part of Phase II. The
remaining amenities may be in some stage of construction but are not complete.

Commissioner Rushton stated that there have been a number of Elderly Overlay Zone
developments recently and the City Council seemed to have adopted a consistent
standard. Single-level style development is what has been envisioned. He questioned
access from 12600 South and if there are plans to have access to the east. Mr. Prestwich
confirmed that the last several developments have been applied to RM-6 or RM-8 style
zoning with single-family detached structures. The overall Master Site Plan shows
anticipated access slightly to the south that then ties into Old Liberty Way. There are two
property owners to the north and as the property to the east develops, that connection
will be made. A property rendering was displayed. He confirmed that there is room for a
stub to the south on the SLR property.

Chair Cluff understood there is an SD over the entire parcel with just one corner with the
Elder Housing Overlay. She asked if any consideration had been given to the rest of the
parcel. Mr. Prestwich explained the original Ordinance 17.04 states that the land use and
density shall be described on Exhibit B, exterior requirements, and connectivity from the
open space to the development on the west. The plan designates specific areas for
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
January 12, 2023

townhomes, condominiums, detached cottages, and elderly housing. The Elderly
Housing Overlay that existed when the SD was put in place in 2017 has changed
significantly. This development is not required to include those elements. A density
bonus was offered if Elderly Housing was included. The age restriction issues were
discussed.

Derek Wright from Wright Homes stated they are not the original developer and were not
involved in the entitlement process. They purchased the property as paper lots. When
the project commenced in 2018, this phase was not fully platted, and they were aware of
the Elderly Housing Overlay. The first two phases were executed and are not complete.
Landscape improvements were currently going in with additional amenities planned for
the spring. The purpose of the rezone request was to eliminate the requirement of
residents being 55 and older to be on the title. As stated under the current approval, 80%
of the residents will be required to be 55 and older to which they have had zero interest.
As noted, this product will not be approved under the current ordinance as it was very
specific and broad when the project was entitled. The development standards require
units that are developed within the Elderly Housing Overlay to include a minimum of one
mobility age-friendly feature per unit of density or 14 mobility age-friendly features. The
required features include the following:

   •   Main level living;
   •   No step entries or thresholds;
   •   Access ramps;
   •   Increased doorway and hallway widths;
   •   Non-slip flooring throughout;
   •   Accessible bathroom facilities;
   •   Age-appropriate hardware fixtures; and
   •   Other features as approved by the Development Services Director.

He reiterated that they are not changing what was already approved and build a multi-
generational product. Their intent is to not restrict who would be on the title.

Commissioner Cannon stated that Doug Young, the original developer, had plans for the
property and believed the product was right for the market at the time. Mr. Young talked
of the product being geared toward an empty nester with a child or grandchild occupying
the upstairs. He believed that traffic counts for the original plan could be greater than
what is being presented and supported the proposal.

Chair Cluff asked if it was possible to change the plans to better fit a 55+ market.
Mr. Wright stated that it is not possible with this type of product. They have done
everything possible with the footprints that were provided to make adjustments but were
unsuccessful.

Commissioner Matheson reported that he is a physician and did not believe that the
proposed product is suitable for someone aged 55 and above. He did not see a way this
would be a good product for elderly residents unless it is redesigned as a single-level
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     6
January 12, 2023

home. Mr. Prestwich reported that he was not present for the City Council’s decision. It
was originally approved as an entire package with the concession that higher densities
be allowed.

Mr. Wright believed there was a need for this type of product in Riverton City. There are
other projects that allow for those 55+ and it is a growing market, just not with this criteria.
He stated that the discussions that were part of the original approval led to the change to
the ordinance as written today.

Chair Cluff felt this was poor planning on the part of the previous or current landowner
and has now become the City’s problem. Mr. Wright stated that it is the landowner’s
problem and is why they requested a rezone. The partnership between developers and
builders in the City is important and they share the same goal of creating successful
projects for homeowners. The project was platted while already under construction with
the larger part of the overall project. It was not his intention to change what has already
been approved but those on the title are not 55+. He commented that the service impacts
will be minimal at best.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing.

Clint Robinson reported that he lives in the neighborhood and felt there had been poor
planning on the 2017 approval and what is currently being constructed. He expressed
frustration with congestion in the area. Access to the neighborhood was a problem
especially with the proposed project. There is a lack of amenities with only a single tot
lot and an unkept green area.

There were no further public comments. Chair Cluff closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Rushton stated that traffic may be the core issue, especially with the
proposed rezone. With possible future access to the east and south, he asked if the City
could look at eminent domain with an adjacent property owner. Mr. Prestwich stated that
it is common practice when breaking ground to include stubs. At the time of the 2017
rezone, the developer presented slides suggesting he would soon have control of the
property to the east with an imminent road connection. The City could exercise eminent
domain but the process would begin with the City Council.

Commissioner Matheson asked if there will be less traffic with seniors residing in the
homes as opposed to families with small children. A 55+ resident may bring in family
members, which could potentially result in an increase. Mr. Cassell reported that
numbers were quoted using transportation data and are consistent with use and fair
practices.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-22-4010 Wright-Parkside Rezone of an existing
development of 6.1 acres at 12995 South Sand Hollow Drive from current zoning of
R-14-SD/EHOV (Residential Medium-Density with an Elderly Housing Overlay) to R-
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    7
January 12, 2023

14 SD (Residential Medium Density) with Staff to complete a Traffic Study and
present to the City Council traffic improvement and additional access points into
the development. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Rushton. Vote on
motion:       Commissioner       Matheson-Aye,    Commissioner     Rushton-Aye,
Commissioner Breinholt-Aye, Commissioner Cannon-Aye, Chair Cluff-Nay. The
motion passed 4-to-1.

       C.     SUBDIVISION - PLEASANT GREEN ESTATES #1 AMEND., PLZ-22-
              1010, AN APPLICATION FOR A LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT TO THE
              COMMON BOUNDARY OF LOTS 14 AND 16 OF PLEASANT GREEN
              ESTATES #1 SUBDIVISION LOCATED AT 13687 AND 13699 SOUTH
              2780 WEST. APPLICANTS - DANIEL AND MARTI DEVERAUX.

City Planner, Lisa Halversen, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is
for a lot line adjustment to the Pleasant Green Estates #1 Subdivision, which was
recorded in 1972. Recently, the Deverauxs, who own the lot to the north, discovered that
the fence, which is the physical boundary between the two lots, is about four feet off of
the recorded property line shown by the County. Both property owners discussed what
to do and found that the cost of moving the fence and the outbuildings were prohibitive.
As a result, they discussed other options with Staff, which included an amended
subdivision plat. This would satisfy the State’s requirement to change the lot line. Rather
than move the physical lot line, they were applying to change the subdivision plat.

The lot size is one-half acre and is zoned RR-22. With the Amended Plat, the lot size will
decrease to .49-acre. A mailer was sent to all of the neighbors and no comments were
received. The original subdivision plat was displayed showing Lots 14 and 16 where the
common lot line is in question. Since animal rights are allowed, the Deverauxs applied
to the Board of Adjustment for a variance, which was approved. Commissioner Gilchrist
brought up a question in an email as to whether it runs with the lot or applies to the original
owner who was granted the variance. Ms. Halversen clarified that it runs with the lot. If
approved, the applicants would still have animal rights.

Daniel Deveraux identified himself and stated that they would like to ensure that there are
no issues in the future. He stated that his neighbors cannot access the backyard with the
current line where it is. They want to move it to the fence, which would allow them to
continue to access the backyard.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-22-
1010 “Pleasant Green Estates #1 Amended”, to be located at 13687 and 13699
South 2780 West with the following conditions:

         1.   Address any outstanding Riverton City staff redline comments on the
              plat and plans.
Public
Comments
Afternoon,

I am writing this letter very frustrated to have to be discussing the change in zoning of a
property that I and many of my fellow neighbors have already turned out to fight this
change. The area that is being requested to change is already heavily over populated with
families that are taxing the roads and school system. As my previous email I send to you
stated 3 story tightly packed homes block the beautiful views that we currently have out here in
Riverton and ruin one of the reasons we moved to Riverton originally.

I would ask once again that you NOT approve these plans and ask for homes more in alignment
with a 55+ community as we were already led to believe was agreed upon.

Sincerely
Alison and Cody Palmer
Dear Riverton planning commission,
I am writing to share my concerns and opinions regarding the application from Wright Homes to rezone
6.1 acres @ 12995 S Sand Hollow Drive. I would like to see the zoning left as is to allow the 55+ housing
overlay. The
elementary, junior high and high schools that serve this area are overcrowded as it is. Bus routes serving
 this area are beyond full capacity. Water consumption is another thought, if less people per home in a 5
5+ development it would reduce water consumption. If leaving the zoning as is (R-
14SD/EHOV) will help prevent further overcrowding of schools, reduce water use and give the adults 55
+ population a place to live, I would like to see it kept as is. Thank you for allowing me to voice my opinio
n as a concerned citizen and neighbor.
Sincerely
Brandon Baldwin
