                                GROUND LEASE

                                     between

                           GOOGLE FIBER UTAH, LLC

                                    as Tenant

                                       and

                          THE CITY OF RIVERTON, UTAH

                                   as Landlord

                               dated May ____, 2022




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease
ARTICLE 1 Lease of Property ..................................................................................................... 1

ARTICLE 2 Term of the Lease .................................................................................................... 1

ARTICLE 3 Rent .......................................................................................................................... 2

ARTICLE 4 Real Property Taxes, Utilities, Platting .................................................................... 4

ARTICLE 5 Initial Term .............................................................................................................. 5

ARTICLE 6 Landlord’s Warranties and Covenants ..................................................................... 7

ARTICLE 7 Construction ............................................................................................................. 9

ARTICLE 8 Use, Maintenance and Repairs; Restrictions and Compliance with Laws ............. 11

ARTICLE 9 Insurance and Indemnity ....................................................................................... 12

ARTICLE 10 Casualty Loss ....................................................................................................... 13

ARTICLE 11 Condemnation ...................................................................................................... 14

ARTICLE 12 Assignment and Subletting .................................................................................. 15

ARTICLE 13 Environmental Provisions .................................................................................... 15

ARTICLE 14 Warranty of Peaceful Possession ......................................................................... 18

ARTICLE 15 Default and Remedies .......................................................................................... 18

ARTICLE 16 Access Rights of Tenant to Land ......................................................................... 20

ARTICLE 17 Miscellaneous....................................................................................................... 21




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                                         (i)
                                       GROUND LEASE

        THIS GROUND LEASE (“Lease”), effective as of May __, 2022 (the “Effective Date”)
is entered into by and between THE CITY OF RIVERTON (“Landlord”), and GOOGLE
FIBER UTAH, LLC, a Utah limited liability company (“Tenant


                                        R E C I T A L S:

       A.     Landlord is the owner of that certain tract of land located in the City of Riverton,
Salt Lake County, Utah, described in Exhibit A-1 attached hereto (the “Land”). The Land
contains approximately 1,600 square feet / 0.04 acres.

        B.    Landlord desires to lease to Tenant the Land as depicted on Exhibit A-2 attached
hereto and Tenant desires to rent the Land from Landlord.

          NOW, THEREFORE, Landlord and Tenant hereby agree as follows:

                                          ARTICLE 1
                                        Lease of Property

        1.1    Land Leased. Landlord, in consideration of the rents, covenants, agreements and
conditions herein set forth, hereby leases to Tenant, and Tenant hereby rents and leases from
Landlord, the Land, together with all of Landlord’s rights, interests, estates and appurtenances
thereto, all improvements thereon and all other rights, title, interests and estates, if any, of the
Landlord in adjacent streets and roads.

       1.2     Premises Defined. The Land and the rights, interests, estates and appurtenances
leased to Tenant pursuant to Section 1.1, together with all improvements now or hereafter
constructed thereon, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Premises.”

        1.3     Lease. TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the Premises, together with all and singular
the rights, privileges and appurtenances thereunto attaching or in anywise belonging, exclusively
unto Tenant, its successors and assigns, for the term set forth in Article 2, subject to termination
as herein provided, and subject to and upon the covenants, agreements, terms, provisions and
limitations herein set forth.

                                          ARTICLE 2
                                        Term of the Lease

        2.1     Initial Term. The period of time commencing on the Effective Date and ending
11:59 p.m. Central Time, on the ninetieth (90th) day thereafter is hereinafter referred to as the
“Initial Term.” Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding sentence, if Landlord fails to
timely deliver to Tenant all of the Landlord’s Reports, Title Report, Title Documents and Existing
Survey (as those terms are defined in Section 5.1 below), the Initial Term shall be extended by one
day for each day beyond the ten (10) day period that all of the items have not been delivered, or if
otherwise agreed in writing between the parties.



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     1
         2.2    Original Term. Provided that Tenant has delivered the Exercise Notice (as defined
in Section 5.3) to Landlord and Landlord has delivered the Premises to Tenant in the Delivery
Condition (as defined below), the original term (the “Original Term”) of this Lease shall
commence five (5) business days following the earlier of (i) the expiration of the Initial Term, as
extended by Force Majeure (as defined below) or as mutually agreed by the parties in writing, or
(ii) the date that Tenant has delivered to Landlord the Initial Construction Notice (as defined in
Section 7.1(b)) (the “Commencement Date”), and shall end on the date that is the last day of the
twentieth (20th) Lease Year (defined below) following the Commencement Date.

        2.3     Renewal Terms. So long as the Lease has not been otherwise terminated, Tenant
shall have the right to renew (each a “Renewal Option”) this Lease for four (4) additional periods
of five (5) years each (each of which is referred to herein as a “Renewal Term”), upon the same
terms and conditions as the Original Term except that the Base Rent during each Renewal Term
shall be in the amounts provided in Section 3.3(e) and the number of renewal options shall be
reduced by the renewal option then being exercised and any renewal options previously exercised.
Tenant shall exercise its initial Renewal Option for the first Renewal Term by delivering written
notice to Landlord not less than six (6) months prior to the expiration of the Original Term, and
thereafter, Tenant shall exercise each of its Renewal Options for the next successive Renewal
Terms by delivering written notice to Landlord not less than six (6) months prior to the expiration
of the then current Renewal Term. If Tenant exercises its Renewal Options as provided herein, the
term of this Lease shall automatically be extended as provided herein. In the event Tenant does
not notify Landlord of its intention to renew within the time specified, Landlord shall notify Tenant
of such failure, and Tenant shall have an addition ten (10) calendar days from receipt of such notice
to exercise the applicable Renewal Option. If Tenant fails to timely deliver written notice of its
intent to renew this Lease after receipt of Landlord’s notice, Tenant’s right to renew as provided
herein shall terminate, and this Lease shall expire as of the end of the Original Term or the
applicable Renewal Term, as the case may be.

        2.4     Term. The Initial Term, Original Term and any Renewal Term, if applicable, are
referred to herein collectively as the “Term.”

        2.5     Delivery; Delay in Delivery. Landlord shall deliver the Premises to Tenant in the
Delivery Condition (as defined in Section 6.3) within five (5) business days after Tenant has
delivered to Landlord the Exercise Notice (the “Delivery Date”). If Tenant has delivered the
Exercise Notice, but Landlord fails to deliver the Premises to Tenant in the Delivery Condition on
the Delivery Date, then Tenant shall have the right to terminate this Lease by delivering notice
thereof to Landlord at any time prior to the date the Premises are delivered to Tenant in the
Delivery Condition as set forth herein, in which event the Inspection Period Consideration (as
defined in Section 5.4) shall be retained by Landlord and the parties shall have no further rights or
obligations to the other hereunder except with respect to those obligations that survive.

                                           ARTICLE 3
                                             Rent

        3.1     Lease Year Defined. “Lease Year” shall mean each consecutive period of twelve
(12) full calendar months, following the Commencement Date. If the Commencement Date is a
date other than the first day of a calendar month, the first Lease Year shall include that fractional


{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (2)
portion of the calendar month in which the Commencement Date occurs and the first full twelve
(12) months thereafter, and the last Lease Year shall end on the expiration or earlier termination
of this Lease. Once the Commencement Date has been established, the parties shall execute a
Commencement Date Letter, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, memorializing the
Commencement Date and the last day of the Original Term.

        3.2    Base Rent. Tenant shall pay rent (“Base Rent”) to Landlord in the amounts set
forth below for the periods set forth below:

        (a)     During the first Lease Year, the total annual Base Rent shall be Six Thousand
Dollars ($6,000) (the “Initial Rent”), which shall be paid in advance as provided in this Section
3.2(a). Provided that Tenant has delivered the Exercise Notice to Landlord, Landlord shall apply
the Inspection Period Consideration to the Initial Rent and Tenant shall pay the balance of the
Initial Rent to Landlord in the amount of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) upon the date that the
Inspection Period (as defined in Section 5.4) terminates.

        (b)    Commencing on the first day of the second (2nd) Lease Year and on each
anniversary of the Commencement Date thereafter through the expiration of the Original Term,
annual Base Rent shall increase by 3%, and such amount shall be payable in one (1) annual
installment on the first day of each Lease Year during such period.

        (c)      If, during the Original Term, Tenant exercises its Renewal Option in accordance
with Section 2.3, annual Base Rent shall be adjusted at the commencement of each Renewal Term
to a rate that reflects the fair market value rent for the Premises as determined seven (7) months
prior to the adjustments. No later than the first (1st) day of the seventh (7th) month preceding the
expiration of the Original Term or any Renewal Term, Landlord shall notify Tenant in writing as
to its determination of the “fair market value rent”. The new rent schedule shall be subject to the
same three percent (3%) annual increase as set forth in the Original Term. The phrase “fair market
value rental rate” as used herein shall mean the then prevailing market rent for the Premises, taking
into account the following factors: (a) rental rates then being agreed to for any new leases (but not
renewals or expansions) for land of comparable size, location, quality and condition to the Land
within a 3-mile radius of the Premises (“Comparable Land”) projected as of the first day of the
Renewal Term by giving due consideration for (a) the quality, size and location of the Land, (b)
pass throughs of taxes for comparable land, (c) concession packages (including but not limited to
leasing concessions, construction costs and improvement allowances) then being offered by other
land owners for Comparable Land, (d) the term or length of lease, and (e) Tenant’s credit standing,
net worth, and business stature in the community. If Tenant disagrees with the fair market value
rental rate of which notice has been given by Landlord, Tenant may invoke the following procedure
by written notice to Landlord within thirty (30) days of Tenant’s receipt of Landlord’s
determination of the fair market value rental rate. If no such written notice is given by Tenant
within such time, Tenant shall be obligated to pay the rate as determined by Landlord should it
elect to exercise the applicable option. If Tenant does give such timely notice, the dispute shall be
settled by arbitration to be conducted in accordance with the Real Estate Valuation Arbitration
Rules of Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services (JAMS). The parties agree to be bound by
the decision of arbitrators and the costs of arbitration shall be divided evenly between Landlord
and Tenant.



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (3)
        3.3   Additional Rent and Rent Defined. Any fees or charges, other than Base Rent,
paid to Landlord by Tenant are referred to herein as “Additional Rent”. The term “Rent” shall
mean Base Rent and any Additional Rent.

        3.4     Payment of Rent. Base Rent shall be paid to Landlord by Tenant in annual
installments in advance on the first day of each Lease Year in lawful money of the United States
of America without notice or demand at the original or changed address of Landlord as set forth
in Section 17.1 or to such other persons or at such other addresses as Landlord may designate from
time to time in writing to Tenant. If the Commencement Date or termination or expiration date of
this Lease is other than the first day of the month of a Lease Year, Tenant shall be required to pay
a pro rata portion of the annual installment of Base Rent for any partial month of such Lease Year.

                                              ARTICLE 4
                                Personal Property Taxes, Utilities, Platting

       4.1     Tenant’s Personal Property Taxes. Tenant shall pay, prior to delinquency, all
taxes assessed against and levied upon Tenant’s Equipment (as defined below) contained in the
Premises or stored at the Premises. When possible, Tenant shall cause Tenant’s Equipment to be
assessed and billed separately from the Land. If any of Tenant’s Equipment shall be assessed with
the Land, Tenant shall pay Landlord the taxes attributable to Tenant’s Equipment within thirty
(30) days after receipt of a written statement setting forth the taxes applicable to Tenant’s
Equipment.

          4.2      Utilities.

         (a)    Tenant’s Utilities Obligations. Subject to Landlord’s obligations in Section
4.2(b), Tenant shall be responsible, at its sole cost and expense, for obtaining, connecting,
installing, repairing and maintaining all utility lines, connections, and facilities on the Premises
required for Tenant’s intended use of the Premises (“Tenant’s Utilities”). Tenant’s Utilities shall
be separately metered at Tenant’s sole cost and expense. During the Term, Tenant shall pay all
charges for services provided in connection with Tenant’s Utilities as well as all telephone and
other communication services and all other utilities and similar services rendered or supplied to
the Premises on behalf of Tenant, and all water and sewer service charges or other similar charges
levied or charged against, or in connection with, Tenant’s use of the Premises during the Term.
Tenant shall not be responsible for any utility service charges not attributable to Tenant’s use of
the Premises.

        (b)     Landlord’s Utility Obligations. Except to the extent otherwise included in Tenant’s
obligations set forth in Section 4.2(a), on or before the Commencement Date, Landlord shall be
responsible, at its sole cost and expense, for bringing to the boundary of the Land, at locations
requested by Tenant, all utility lines and connections (including, without limitation, water, fire
hydrants, gas, storm and sanitary sewer, electricity, telephone and other communication services)
required for Tenant’s Utilities and Tenant’s intended use of the Premises.

        (c)     Access Rights; Cooperation. Landlord shall, at no additional cost to Tenant, allow
Tenant, its contractors and utility providers (including telecommunication service providers,
electrical service providers and water and sewer providers) (collectively, “Providers”) to access



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                        (4)
the Land for purposes of installing, testing, monitoring, maintaining and removing Tenant’s
Utilities and other equipment in connection with utility services to the Premises. Such access
rights shall include: (a) allowing Tenant and each of Tenant’s Providers to install a fiber
distribution panel for purposes of providing connectivity to the Premises; (b) allowing Tenant and
Tenant’s Providers to install utility lines in, on, within or under the Land for providing connectivity
to the Premises for Tenant’s Utilities; (c) granting Tenant and Tenant’s Providers access to and
use of existing easements serving the Land and the Premises; and (d) allowing Tenant and Tenant’s
providers to install underground or overhead conduit, cabling, fiber, and other utility lines in, on,
within or under the Land; provided, however, that the foregoing items contemplated to be installed
by Tenant or Tenant’s providers shall comply with the Construction Standards (defined in
Section 7.3). Landlord shall cooperate with Tenant in obtaining all permits and licenses required
in connection with the installation, maintenance and removal of Tenant’s Utilities and shall
promptly execute any easement, right of entry agreement, or similar agreement reasonably
requested by Tenant or any of Tenant’s Providers in connection with such access rights.

                                            ARTICLE 5
                                            Initial Term

        5.1    Documents to be Supplied by Landlord. Within thirty (30) days following the
Effective Date of this Lease, Landlord shall deliver to Tenant the following:

        (a)      Reports. Any environmental, soils and/or engineering reports or studies, title
reports, title policies, surveys, or other reports relating to the Land in the possession or control of
Landlord or its agents (collectively, “Landlord’s Reports”).

        (b)    Title Information. A current preliminary title report (the “Title Report”) from
Chicago Title Company (“Title Company”) covering the Premises, together with copies of all
Schedule B exception documents, liens, encumbrances and other matters affecting Landlord’s title
to the Land (“Title Documents”).

       (c)     Survey. Any existing ground survey (the “Existing Survey”) of the Land in
possession of Landlord.

       5.2     Updated Survey. Tenant shall have the right during the Title Review Period
(defined below) to update the Existing Survey or obtain a survey if there is no Existing Survey
(the Existing Survey and such updated survey or such new survey are collectively referred to as
the “Survey”) of the Land in a form acceptable to Tenant.

        5.3     Title Review Period. Within sixty (60) days (“Title Review Period”) after receipt
of the last of Landlord’s Reports, the Title Report, Survey and/or Title Documents. If Tenant fails
to object in writing to any items reflected in such documents within the Title Review Period, then
all such items other than Excluded Exceptions (as defined below) shall be deemed to be Permitted
Encumbrances (as defined below). If Tenant objects in writing to any of the items reflected in the
Title Report, Survey or Title Documents, Landlord shall have five (5) business days following
Landlord’s receipt of Tenant’s written objections (the “Title Cure Period”) in which to remove
or cure, to Tenant’s reasonable satisfaction, any matters to which Tenant has objected. If Landlord
has commenced to cure, and thereafter is diligently pursuing the cure of, such item(s) but such



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                      (5)
item(s) cannot be cured within the Title Cure Period, Tenant shall, without waiving any of its other
rights under this Section, have the unilateral right to extend the Title Cure Period until such time
as the cure of such item(s) has been completed or until Tenant, in its sole discretion, determines
that the item(s) cannot be cured within a period compatible with Tenant’s intended use of the
Premises. If Landlord fails to cure such items during the Title Cure Period or Tenant has extended
the Title Cure Period and thereafter determines that the item(s) cannot be cured within the Title
Cure Period (as it may have been be extended), Tenant shall have the right as its sole and exclusive
remedy to (i) to terminate this Lease by written notice to Landlord within ten (10) business days
after the expiration of the Title Cure Period (as it may have been extended), in which event the
Inspection Period Consideration shall be returned to Tenant, and the parties shall have no further
rights or obligations to the other hereunder except with respect to those obligations that survive
such termination, or (ii) waive the objection to such matters and proceed with this Lease, subject
to Tenant’s right to terminate as provided in Section 5.4 and elsewhere in this Lease. If Tenant
elects not to terminate this Lease, Landlord shall cause the Title Company to reissue from time to
time during the Initial Term the Title Report prior to its expiration (the “Reissued Title Report”).
Tenant shall have the right to object to any exceptions other than the Permitted Encumbrances
shown on the Reissued Title Report within five (5) business days of Tenant’s receipt of the
Reissued Title Report. If Landlord fails to cure such items, Tenant shall again have the right to
terminate this Lease, notwithstanding that the Initial Term may have expired, or waive the
objection. The time periods for curing the additional exceptions and for terminating this Lease
shall be the same as those set forth above, commencing with the date Landlord receives Tenant’s
objections to the updated Title Report. “Permitted Encumbrances” shall mean any encumbrances
reflected in the Title Report, any Reissued Title Report and Title Documents or on the Survey to
which Tenant does not object within the time periods set forth herein or to which any objection
has been waived by Tenant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) mechanic’s liens or other monetary
liens or encumbrances on the Land (collectively, “Liens”), (ii) property taxes and assessments that
may become delinquent prior to the Commencement Date, and (iii) exceptions or encumbrances
to title which are affirmatively created by Landlord after the Effective Date (collectively,
“Excluded Exceptions”) shall not be Permitted Encumbrances hereunder, whether Tenant gives
written notice of such or not, and shall be paid off, satisfied, discharged, cured and/or removed by
Landlord, at or before the Commencement Date in a manner satisfactory to Tenant, the same being
a condition precedent for the benefit of Tenant hereunder.

        5.4      Inspections and Approvals. During the period commencing on the Effective Date
and continuing through 11:59 p.m. Central Time on the last day of the Initial Term (the
“Inspection Period”), Tenant shall have the right to access the Premises to conduct soil,
engineering, environmental and other tests with regard to the Premises; investigate the availability
of utilities, the applicable governmental requirements relating to signage and construction of
improvements on the Premises, the availability of necessary permits and licenses relating to
signage and construction of any improvements; and determine generally the desirability and utility
of the Premises for Tenant’s purposes. In consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained
and the payment by Tenant to Landlord of the sum of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) (the
“Inspection Period Consideration”) within twenty (20) business days after the Effective Date,
the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged. Tenant has the absolute right to
terminate this Lease for any reason or for no reason, in Tenant’s sole and absolute discretion,
during the Inspection Period and shall not be bound hereunder unless Tenant delivers to Landlord,
prior to the end of the Inspection Period (as may be extended as provided herein), written notice


{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                    (6)
that it waives its right to terminate this Lease (the “Exercise Notice”), in which case the Inspection
Period shall end and Tenant shall not have the right to terminate this Lease, except as expressly
provided otherwise in other provisions of this Lease. Subject to any extension of the Inspection
Period, if Tenant fails to timely deliver the Exercise Notice to Landlord, the Inspection Period
Consideration shall be retained by Landlord and this Lease shall immediately terminate at 11:59
p.m. Central Time on the last day of the Inspection Period, and neither party shall have any further
obligations hereunder as of 11:59 p.m. Central Time on the last day of the Inspection Period, except
with respect to those items which expressly survive termination of this Lease. The Inspection
Period Consideration shall be non-refundable but shall apply to the Initial Rent if Tenant delivers
the Exercise Notice. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, the parties may
extend the Inspection Period upon mutual written agreement.

        5.5     Title Policy. If Tenant does not elect to terminate this Lease prior to the expiration
of the Initial Term, Tenant, at its option and at its sole cost and expense, shall cause the Title
Company to issue to Tenant within three (3) business days following a written request from Tenant
a Leasehold Owner Policy of Title Insurance in form acceptable to Tenant in respect of the Land
subject only to the Permitted Encumbrances covering the Land and the appurtenant easements in
the amount of the value of the Land.

                                          ARTICLE 6
                              Landlord’s Warranties and Covenants

        6.1     Warranties of Title; Authority. Landlord warrants and represents to Tenant that
it has vested public right of way interest to the Land, including the Land, and has full right, power
and authority to enter into this Lease. Landlord has taken all requisite action and obtained all
requisite consents with respect to its obligations hereunder, and no consent of any other party is
required for the performance by Landlord of such obligations. This Lease is, and all agreements,
instruments and documents to be executed and delivered by Landlord pursuant to this Lease are
and shall be, valid and legally binding upon Landlord and enforceable in accordance with their
respective terms. The execution, delivery and performance of this Lease does not and will not
violate any agreement, instrument, order, judgment or decree to which either Landlord is a party
or by which it or any of its assets is bound.

       6.2         Other Representations and Warranties. Landlord warrants and represents to
Tenant that:

        (a)     Landlord has received no written notice from any governmental authority with
jurisdiction over the Premises of any current violation by the Premises of any laws or regulations
applicable to the Premises and the Property is in compliance with any past written notices of
violations. Landlord shall immediately provide Tenant with a copy of any such notices received
after the Effective Date.

        (b)     No construction has been performed on the Land during the six (6) month period
prior to the execution of this Lease and no party has any claim for payment for such work or the
right to place a lien against the Premises therefor.




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (7)
        (c)    Landlord will not commence construction of any kind on the Land following the
Effective Date of this Lease.

       (d)     There are no mortgages, other Liens (other than the lien for real estate taxes not yet
due and payable), ground leases, or security interests affecting the Land which are superior to this
Lease or which could result in the termination of this Lease except those listed on Exhibit C
attached hereto.

         (e)    No litigation or proceedings are pending, or to the best of Landlord’s knowledge
are threatened, against (i) Landlord which have or will have a material adverse effect on the ability
of Landlord to perform Landlord’s obligations hereunder or (ii) the Premises. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, no condemnation, taking or other governmental action is pending
or (to the best of Landlord’s actual knowledge) threatened in respect of the Premises. If Landlord
receives notice of any such claim, litigation or proceeding, Landlord shall promptly notify Tenant
of the same in writing.

      (f)     There are no leases, occupancy agreements, contracts, licenses, options or other
agreements of any kind affecting or relating to the Premises.

        (g)     Except as may be disclosed in any environmental reports or assessments included
in the Landlord Reports, Landlord has received no written notice of any violation of Environmental
Laws (as defined below) or the presence or release of Hazardous Materials (as defined below) on
or from the Premises in violation of Environmental Laws, and to Landlord’s knowledge, neither
Landlord nor any third party has used, manufactured, generated, treated, stored (in underground
storage tanks or otherwise), disposed of, or released any Hazardous Materials on, under or about
the Land, including the Land, or transported any Hazardous Materials over the Land, including the
Land, in violation of Environmental Laws.

        (h)    The Premises do not violate, and Landlord has received no notice that the Premises
violate any building, health, fire, water, use or other statute, ordinance, law, rule, regulation or
code (including, without limitation, Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act)

        6.3            Condition of Premises Upon Delivery. On the Delivery Date, Landlord
 will deliver exclusive possession of the Premises and shall ensure that the Premises are delivered
 to Tenant in accordance with the following (the “Delivery Condition”):

       (a)   The Premises shall be free of all Hazardous Materials in accordance with applicable
Environmental Laws (as defined below).

       (b)     The zoning for the Premises shall be such that Tenant can readily commence use of
the Premises for the Permitted Use (as defined below).

       (c)    The Premises shall be vacant and free of Landlord’s personal property or equipment
of any kind and free of any tenant’s, occupant’s or other third party’s personal property or
equipment of any kind

        (d)      There shall be no new Excluded Exceptions or other encumbrances of any kind
affecting title to the Premises other than the Permitted Encumbrances.


{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (8)
        (e)      On the Delivery Date and except for any casualty or condemnation, the Premises
shall be in a state of repair at least as good as the state of repair as of the expiration of the Inspection
Period, normal wear and tear alone excepted, and there shall be no change in the zoning or
entitlements for the Premises and no change in the physical condition of the Premises as of the
expiration of the Inspection Period.

          (f)      Landlord shall have completed all of its utilities obligations set forth in Section
4.5(b).

          (g)      The Premises shall be in compliance with all applicable Laws (as defined below).

                                              ARTICLE 7
                                              Construction

          7.1      Construction of New Improvements.

        (a)    Tenant shall have the right, from time to time and at any time, at its sole cost and
risk, subject to the subsequent provisions of this Section, to demolish and remove any
improvements or portions of improvements situated upon the Land, to construct replacement
improvements for improvements so removed, or to construct, remove and reconstruct new
improvements if no improvements exist on the Land as of the Effective Date. Any improvements
constructed by Tenant on the Land shall be constructed in accordance with the Construction
Standards (defined in Section 7.3). “Improvements” shall mean any buildings, structures,
telecommunications equipment, signage or other improvements located at any time in, under or
upon the Leased Land.

        (b)     Landlord acknowledges that Tenant intends to construct initial Improvements (the
“Initial Improvements”) on the Land following Landlord’s delivery of the Premises to Tenant in
the Delivery Condition. No later than ninety (90) days (the “Construction Notice Deadline”)
following the delivery of the Premises to Tenant in the Delivery Condition, Tenant shall deliver
written notice to Landlord of its intent to commence construction of the Initial Improvements (the
“Initial Construction Notice”). Subject to any extension of the Inspection Period as described in
Section 5.4 above, if Tenant fails to deliver the Initial Construction Notice as provided herein, this
Lease shall immediately terminate at 11:59 p.m. Central Time on the date of the Construction
Notice Deadline and neither party shall have any further obligations hereunder as of 11:59 p.m.
Central Time as of the date of the Construction Notice Deadline, except with respect to those items
which expressly survive termination of this Lease.

       7.2     Alterations. At any time and from time to time during the Original Term or any
Renewal Term, Tenant may perform such alteration, renovation, repair, refurbishment and other
work with regard to the Premises as Tenant may elect, provided that the same is done in accordance
with the Construction Standards (defined in Section 7.3). Landlord shall have no right to perform
any alterations, renovation or other work to the Premises except as otherwise provided herein
during the Term.




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                        (9)
          7.3      Construction Standards and Liens.

        (a)    Standards. Any Improvements, including the Initial Improvements, shall be
constructed, and any alteration, renovation, repair, refurbishment or other work with regard thereto
shall be performed, in accordance with the following standards (“Construction Standards”):

                 (1)   All such construction or work shall be performed in a good and
          workmanlike manner in accordance with good industry practice for the type of work in
          question.

                 (2)     All such construction or work shall be done in compliance with all
          applicable building codes, ordinances and other laws or regulations of Governmental
          Authorities.

                 (3)     No construction or work shall be commenced until all licenses, permits and
          authorizations required of all Governmental Authorities having jurisdiction are obtained.

                 (4)    Tenant shall have obtained and shall maintain in force and effect the
          insurance coverage required in Article 9 with respect to the type of construction or work in
          question.

        (b)     Mechanic’s and Materialmen’s Liens. Tenant shall have no right, authority or
power to bind Landlord or any interest of Landlord in the Premises for any claim for labor or for
material or for any other charge or expense incurred in constructing any Improvements or
performing any alteration, renovation, repair, refurbishment or other work with regard thereto, nor
to render Landlord’s interest in the Premises liable for any lien or right of lien for any labor,
materials or other charge or expense incurred in connection therewith. Tenant shall not be
considered the agent of Landlord in the construction, erection or operation of any such
Improvements. If any liens or claims for labor or materials supplied or claimed to have been
supplied to the Premises are filed or recorded against the Premises as a result of work performed
by or on behalf of Tenant, Tenant shall diligently pursue the release or discharge thereof through
any means determined by Tenant in its sole discretion. If any liens or claims for labor or materials
supplied or claimed to have been supplied to the Premises or the Land are filed or recorded against
the Premises as a result of work performed by or on behalf of Landlord, Landlord shall diligently
pursue the release or discharge thereof through any means determined by Landlord in its sole
discretion.

        7.4    Tenant’s Equipment Defined. The term “Tenant’s Equipment” means all trade
fixtures and personal property, including, without limitation, furnishings, furniture, equipment,
computers, computer related equipment, cabling, tubing, pneumatic tubing, security systems,
communications equipment and other equipment or property of Tenant located in, on or about the
Premises.

        7.5     Ownership and Removal of Tenant’s Equipment. Tenant’s Equipment shall be
solely the property of Tenant. Within fifteen (15) business days following the expiration or
termination of the Term, Tenant shall remove all Tenant’s Equipment from the Premises; provided,
however, that Tenant shall repair any damage caused by such removal provided, however, that
Tenant shall repair any damage caused by such removal. If Tenant fails to remove all Tenant’s


{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                      (10)
Equipment within such fifteen (15) business day period, all of Tenant’s Equipment remaining on
the Premises shall become the property of Landlord without any credit or compensation to Tenant.

       7.6     Ownership of Improvements. During the Term all Improvements shall be solely
the property of Tenant. Upon expiration or termination of the Term, the Improvements (if not
razed or demolished by Tenant at its sole and absolute discretion) shall be the property of Landlord
(excluding Tenant’s Equipment).

       7.7     Landlord’s Impact Fee Obligation. Landlord shall be responsible, at its sole cost
and expense, to pay the following incurred by Landlord:

         (a)     Any existing obligations in connection with the Land or any portions thereof, or
any so-called “recapture agreements,” involving refunds or payments for sewer extension,
oversized utility lines, expansion of capacity or other improvement to any off-site sewer or water
lift station, lighting or like expense, or charge for work or services done upon or relating to the
and, or any portions thereof, which will bind or affect the Land, or any portion thereof, from and
after the Effective Date, except for any customary and generally applied “tap-on” or “hook up”
fees required in connection with the bringing of utilities onto the Land or any impact fees for the
replatting of the Land.

      (b)     “Impact” or similar fees or charges for which Tenant shall be liable or which may
become a lien against the Land or any portion thereof.

                                          ARTICLE 8
               Use, Maintenance and Repairs; Restrictions and Compliance with Laws

        8.1    Use. Subject to the terms and provisions hereof, Tenant shall have the right to use
and enjoy the Premises in a lawful manner for any lawful purpose, including, without limitation,
the storage of Tenant’s Equipment and materials (the “Permitted Use”). Tenant shall not use or
occupy, knowingly permit the Premises to be used or occupied, nor do or knowingly permit
anything to be done in or on the Premises in a manner which would (i) in any way make void or
voidable any insurance then in force with respect thereto but only to the extent such use is not
Permitted Use, (ii) make it impossible to obtain the insurance required to be furnished by Tenant
hereunder, or (iii) constitute a public or private nuisance.

        8.2     Maintenance and Repairs. Subject to Tenant’s rights under Article 7, Tenant
shall take good care of the Premises, make all repairs thereto, interior and exterior, structural and
nonstructural, ordinary and extraordinary, foreseen and unforeseen and shall maintain and keep
the Premises in good order, repair and condition at all times. Tenant will not commit, knowingly
permit or suffer any waste, damages, disfigurement or injury to or upon the Premises or any part
thereof, but this Section shall not be construed as limiting Tenant’s rights under Article 7.
Landlord shall have no obligation to maintain or repair the Premises; provided, however, Landlord
shall be responsible for the repair of any damage or injury caused to the Premises by Landlord or
any of its agents, employees, representatives, contractors or invitees. Landlord shall perform such
repairs (a) immediately upon written notice from Tenant, (b) in compliance with applicable Laws,
(c) in a good and workmanlike manner, and (d) in a manner that will not interfere with Tenant’s
use of or access to the Premises.



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                    (11)
        8.3    Entry by Landlord. Landlord shall not be permitted to enter the Premises without
the prior consent of Tenant, which shall be given or denied within two (2) business days after
Landlord delivers a written request to enter the Premises to Tenant. Permission to access property
shall not be unreasonably withheld, but shall be based on Tenant’s availability to join Landlord at
the Premisis. The foregoing notice requirement shall not apply in the case of an emergency (e.g.
physical danger or damage to property, etc.). Landlord shall perform any entry into the Premises
permitted hereunder in a manner that will minimize interference with Tenant’s use of the Premises
and the operation of Tenant’s business therein or thereon. Landlord shall promptly repair any
damage to the Premises caused by its entry onto the Premises.

         8.4    Restrictions. Tenant's leasehold interest in the Premises is subject to and shall be
in compliance with all covenants, conditions, restrictions, easements, rights-of-way, and other
matters now or hereafter of record (collectively, “Recorded Restrictions”); During the Term,
provided, Landlord shall not cause or permit to be recorded any encumbrance, covenant, condition,
restriction, easement, rights-of-way, and other matters now or hereafter of record or any
amendments thereto, that interfere with or reduce Tenant’s rights under this Lease.

        8.5     Compliance with Laws. Tenant, at all times during the Term, shall comply with
all applicable local, state and federal laws, statutes, ordinances or other governmental rules,
regulations or requirements (collectively, “Laws”) with respect to Tenant’s use of the Premises.
to the extent affecting Tenant’s use, operation or occupancy of the Premises. Tenant shall have
the right to contest the validity of any Laws or the application thereof. During such contest,
compliance with any such contested Laws may be deferred by Tenant.

                                            ARTICLE 9
                                      Insurance and Indemnity

        9.1    Landlord’s Insurance. During the Term of this Lease, Landlord shall maintain
commercial general liability insurance insuring against injuries or damages to persons or property
resulting from operations of Landlord or Landlord’s employees, agents or contractors, with limits
of liability of no less than $2,000,000.00 each occurrence, and $3,000,000.00 per location
aggregate for bodily injury and premises damage liability, and an umbrella policy of $5,000,000.00
per occurrence.

          9.2      Tenant’s Insurance. Tenant shall maintain during this Lease, the following:

        (a)    commercial general liability insurance insuring against injuries or damages to
persons or property resulting from operations of Landlord or Landlord’s employees, agents or
contractors, with limits of liability of no less than $5,000,000.00 each occurrence and per location
aggregate for bodily injury and premises damage liability, which such policy shall name Landlord
as an additional insured.

       (b)    all-risk property damage insurance covering Tenant’s Equipment and other
personal property and all Improvements constructed by Tenant on a full replacement cost basis.

Certificates or access to web-based memoranda of insurance evidencing such coverages shall be
furnished to Landlord prior to the commencement of this Lease and at each subsequent insurance
policy renewal date. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Tenant shall have


{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (12)
the right to self-insure for any insurance requirements contained herein, and Tenant’s failure to
provide proof of insurance required herein in the time and manner required shall be deemed
Tenant’s election to self-insure.

        9.3     Waiver of Subrogation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein,
Landlord and Tenant hereby release each other from any and all liability or responsibility (to each
other or anyone claiming through or under either of them by way of subrogation or otherwise) for
any loss or damage to its real or personal property caused by fire or any other insured or insurable
peril, even if such fire or other casualty is caused by the fault or negligence of the other party or
anyone for whom such party may be responsible. Landlord and Tenant shall procure insurance
policies with such a waiver of subrogation and with a clause or endorsement to the effect that any
such release shall not adversely affect or impair said policies or prejudice the right of the releasor
to recover thereunder.

        9.4     Tenant Indemnity. Tenant shall indemnify, defend, hold harmless and reimburse
Landlord, its members, officers and agents from and against and for any and all liabilities,
obligations, penalties, fines, claims, demands, actions, costs, suits and expenses (including
attorneys’ fees) (“Claims”) which may be asserted against Landlord by a third party (a) by reason
of Tenant’s negligence or wrongful act or omission in connection with Tenant’s use of the
Premises, or (b) arising out of the use of the Utility Area by Tenant or Tenant’s employees,
contractors, agents or invitees. Notwithstanding any provision of this Lease to the contrary, the
foregoing indemnity shall not apply to (a) any loss, cost or expense to the extent caused by
Landlord’s breach of this Lease, or (b) the negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord or its
agents, employees, agents or contractors. The foregoing indemnity shall survive the termination
or the expiration of this Lease.

       9.5     Landlord Indemnity. Landlord shall indemnify, defend, hold harmless and
reimburse Tenant, its shareholders, members, officers and agents from and against and for any and
all Claims which may be asserted against Tenant by a third party by reason of Landlord’s
negligence or wrongful act or omission. Notwithstanding any provision of this Lease to the
contrary, the foregoing indemnity shall not apply to (a) any loss, cost or expense to the extent
caused by Tenant’s breach of this Lease, or (b) the negligence or willful misconduct of Tenant or
its agents, employees, agents or contractors. The foregoing indemnity shall survive the
termination or expiration of this Lease.

       9.6     Consequential Damages. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL EITHER
PARTY TO THIS LEASE BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL,
SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY OR ANY SIMILAR TYPE OF DAMAGES, AND
LANDLORD AND TENANT, RESPECTIVELY, HEREBY WAIVE THE SAME. This
provision shall survive the termination or the expiration of this Lease.

                                           ARTICLE 10
                                           Casualty Loss

      10.1 Tenant’s Rights. Should any Improvements be wholly or partially destroyed or
damaged by fire or any other casualty, Tenant shall have the right to restore and reconstruct the
Improvements or terminate this Lease. If Tenant elects to terminate this Lease under this Section,


{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (13)
Landlord shall refund to Tenant any unearned Base Rent paid by Tenant, calculated at the daily
rate based on the then effective regular annual rate within thirty (30) days after such termination.
Thereafter, the parties shall have no further rights, duties or obligations under this Lease. If Tenant
elects not to terminate this Lease under this Section, Tenant may repair, replace, restore and
reconstruct any Improvements, all in compliance with the Construction Standards.

      10.2 Notice of Damage. Tenant shall immediately notify Landlord of any destruction
or damage to the Premises.

                                           ARTICLE 11
                                           Condemnation

        11.1 Total Taking. If all of the Premises shall be taken or appropriated for public or
quasi-public use by right of eminent domain, with or without litigation or transferred by agreement
in connection with such public or quasi-public use, this Lease shall terminate as of the date
possession is taken by the condemning authority. If a portion of the Premises shall be taken or
appropriated for public or quasi-public use by right of eminent domain, with or without litigation
or transferred by agreement in connection with such public or quasi-public use and such partial
taking adversely effects Tenant’s use of the Premises, Tenant shall have the right at its option
exercisable within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice of such taking to terminate this Lease as of
the date possession is taken by the condemning authority. No award for any partial or entire taking
shall be apportioned, and Tenant hereby assigns to Landlord any award which may be made in
such taking or condemnation, together with any and all rights of Tenant or hereafter arising in or
to the same or any part thereof; provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall be deemed
to give Landlord any interest in or to require Tenant to assign to Landlord any award made to
Tenant for relocation or other direct and actual costs as may be provided for by applicable laws.
In the event of a partial taking that does not result in a termination of this Lease, Base Rent shall
be reduced in the proportion that the part of the Premises so made unusable bears to the rented area
of the Premises immediately prior to the taking.

        11.2 Partial Taking. In the event of a partial taking where this Lease is not terminated,
and as a result thereof Tenant will need to restore, repair or refurbish the remainder of the Premises
in order to put them in a usable condition, then the award shall first be paid to Tenant for payment
of such restoration, repair and refurbishment in accordance with the Construction Standards and
the remainder shall be equitably apportioned between Landlord and Tenant based on the then
respective fair market values of Landlord’s interest in the Premises and Tenant’s interest in the
Premises, considering the respective interests of Landlord and Tenant in the portion of the
Premises taken. If a portion of the Premises is taken and no repair or restoration work is required
because thereof, the award therefor shall be apportioned and paid as provided in the preceding
sentence, considering the respective interests of Landlord and Tenant in the portion of the Premises
taken.

       11.3 Notice of Taking; Cooperation. Landlord and Tenant shall immediately notify the
other of the commencement of any eminent domain, condemnation or other similar proceedings
with regard to the Premises. Landlord and Tenant covenant and agree to fully cooperate in any
condemnation, eminent domain, or similar proceeding in order to maximize the total award



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (14)
receivable in respect thereof. Any termination of this Lease pursuant to this Article 11 shall not
affect the rights of Landlord and Tenant to any such award.

                                            ARTICLE 12
                                             Assignment

          12.1     Tenant’s Right to Assign.

         (a)     Tenant may, without the prior consent of Landlord, assign this Lease to any
affiliate, subsidiary or successor of Tenant (“Affiliated Transferee”). In the event Tenant assigns
this Lease in accordance with this Article 12, Tenant shall be deemed released from its duties and
obligations hereunder. Tenant shall have no duty to share any profits or provide any other
remuneration or consideration to Landlord as a result of its assigning this Lease, or subleasing all
or any portion of the Premises, and it shall be deemed unreasonable for Landlord to require any
such sharing, remuneration, or consideration in connection with Landlord’s consent to any
assignment or sublease.

        (b)     Tenant may assign its rights hereunder to any other party with Landlord’s prior
written approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed in any case.
Landlord’s right to approve any assignee of Tenant’s rights under this Lease shall be limited to
approval of the financial strength of the proposed assignee based on reasonable financial
information reasonably requested by Landlord. No other factors shall be considered. Upon
Landlord’s written approval of any proposed assignee of Tenant’s rights under this Lease, Tenant
shall be relieved of liability, and such assignee shall become the new Tenant. Landlord shall
indicate its written approval or disapproval of any proposed assignee within thirty (30) days after
Tenant gives Landlord notice of the proposed assignment, including the identity of the proposed
assignee and reasonably sufficient information as to the proposed assignee and proposed use to
enable Landlord to evaluate such assignee’s financial strength. If Landlord fails to indicate its
approval or disapproval within such thirty (30) day period, Landlord shall be deemed to have
approved the requested assignment. Any assignment of Tenant’s rights under this Lease that are
not in accordance with this Section shall be void.

                                          ARTICLE 13
                                     Environmental Provisions

       13.1 Definitions.        For purposes of this Lease the following terms shall have the
following meanings:

        (a)      “Environmental Law” or “Environmental Laws” shall mean the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA”),
42 U.S.C. § 9601 et seq.; the Toxic Substance Control Act (“TSCA”), 15 U.S.C. § 2601 et seq.;
the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. §5101 et seq.; the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), 42 U.S.C. § 6901, et seq.; the Clean Water Act (“CWA”),
33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.; the Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. § 300f et seq.; the Clean Air
Act (“CAA”), 42 U.S.C. § 7401 et seq. and all other federal laws governing the environment as
in effect on the date of this Lease, together with their implementing regulations, guidelines, rules
or orders as of the date of this Lease, and all state, regional, county, municipal and other local laws,



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                      (15)
regulations, ordinances, rules or orders that are equivalent or similar to the federal laws recited
above or that purport to regulate Hazardous Materials.

        (b)     “Hazardous Material” or “Hazardous Materials” shall mean (a) hazardous
wastes, hazardous materials, hazardous substances, hazardous constituents, toxic substances or
related materials, whether solids, liquids or gases, including, but not limited to, substances defined
as “hazardous wastes,” “hazardous materials,” “hazardous substances,” “toxic substances,”
“pollutants,” “contaminants,” “radioactive materials”, “toxic pollutants”, or other similar
designations in, or otherwise subject to regulation under the Environmental Laws and in any
permits, licenses, approvals, plans, rules, regulations or ordinances adopted, or other criteria and
guidelines promulgated pursuant to the Environmental Laws or other similar federal, state or local
laws, regulations, rules or ordinances now or hereafter in effect relating to environmental matters;
and (b) any other substances, constituents or wastes subject to any applicable federal, state or local
law, regulation or ordinance, including any Environmental Law, now or hereafter in effect,
including but not limited to (A) petroleum, (B) refined petroleum products, (C) waste oil,
(D) waste aviation or motor vehicle fuel and their byproducts, (E) asbestos, (F) lead in water, paint
or elsewhere, (G) radon, (H) Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs), (I) urea formaldehyde,
(J) volatile organic compounds (VOC), (K) total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH), (L) benzine
derivative (BTEX), and (M) petroleum byproduct.

      (c)     “Release” means depositing, spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting,
emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or disposing.

      (d)     “Reports” means those reports and assessments more particularly described on
Exhibit H attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

       (e)      “Remediate” or “Remediation” shall mean the necessary actions to comply with
applicable Environmental Law with respect to the unlawful presence of, or suspected discharge of,
a Hazardous Material. Remediation may include, without limitation: environmental investigation,
monitoring and sampling; installation, maintenance and removal of monitoring wells; removal,
treatment, neutralization or containment of any Hazardous Material; storage of excavated
materials; and installation, maintenance, storage and removal of machinery and equipment used in
connection with the Remediation.

        13.2 Landlord’s Representations, Warranties and Covenants. Except as disclosed
in the Reports, Landlord hereby represents, warrants and covenants that:

        (a)      To the best of its knowledge, the Premises is and has been, and Landlord agrees to
use its best efforts to cause it to remain, in compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws.

        (b)    To the best of its knowledge, there has been no Release and there is no threat of
Release of any Hazardous Materials on, onto or from the Premises that has resulted in or that could
result in a violation of any Environmental Law or in the creation of liability or obligations,
including, without limitation, notification, deed recordation or Remediation, under any
Environmental Law. To the best of its knowledge, neither the Land nor the Premises has contained
and does not contain any underground or aboveground storage tanks, “PCBs” or “PCB items,” as
those terms are defined in 40 C.F.R. §761.3, or asbestos.



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (16)
         (c)     Landlord agrees to indemnify, defend, protect and hold harmless Tenant and its
members, directors, officers, employees, agents, contractors, successors and assigns (collectively,
“Tenant’s Parties”), from and against any liability, obligation, damage or costs, including without
limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs, arising from claims resulting directly or indirectly
from (i) any use, presence, removal or disposal of any Hazardous Materials to the extent such
liability, obligation, damage or costs was a result of actions caused or knowingly permitted by
Landlord or its members, directors, officers, employees, agents contractors, successors and assigns
(collectively, “Landlord Parties”) or any third party other than Tenant or any Tenant Party, (ii)
the breach of any Environmental Laws by Landlord or any Landlord Party, (iii) any material
misrepresentation of Landlord contained in this Section or any breach by Landlord of its
obligations under this Section, (iv) the existence of Hazardous Materials in, on, around or under
the Premises on or prior to the Commencement Date (other than and to the extent of Hazardous
Materials introduced by Tenant or any Tenant Party); and (v) any Hazardous Materials which may
migrate onto or under the Premises from other properties after the Commencement Date.

         (d)   If it is discovered that the Premises contain Hazardous Materials Landlord shall, at
its sole expense, take all action required, including Remediation of the Premises, to comply with
the covenants herein and all applicable Environmental Laws. In the event that Tenant shall
discover the existence of any Hazardous Materials on the Premises during the course of its
construction of the Improvements, Landlord shall be obligated to remove and dispose of such
Hazardous Materials at its sole cost and expense, in accordance with applicable Environmental
Laws (including the execution of any and all waste manifests or other documents required by the
applicable Governmental Authorities in connection therewith), and otherwise in a manner that will
not interfere with or impair Tenant’s intended use of the Premises or the construction of Tenant’s
Improvements thereon. If Landlord fails to do so within ten (10) days of its receipt of Tenant’s
notice of such discovery, Tenant shall have the right to terminate this Lease upon written notice to
Landlord, in which event this Lease shall terminate as of the date set forth in such notice to
Landlord. If Tenant exercises this termination right, Landlord shall refund to Tenant any advance
Base Rent paid by Tenant for the Lease Year in which such termination occurs.

       13.3 Tenant’s Representations, Warranties and Covenants.                      Tenant hereby
represents, warrants and covenants that:

        (a)     Tenant agrees not to knowingly allow the release of any Hazardous Material on,
onto or from the Premises that could result in a violation of any Environmental Law or in the
creation of liability or obligations, including, without limitation, notification, deed recordation or
remediation, under any Environmental Law.

        (b)    Tenant agrees that it will not use, handle, generate, treat, store or dispose of, or
permit the use, handling, generation, treatment, storage or disposal of any Hazardous Materials
(other than those types and quantities required for Tenant’s use of the Premises, including, without
limitation, those contained in normal cleaning products and petroleum and gasoline products,
including synthetic gasoline, used as fuel for power generation) by any Tenant’s Parties, in, on,
under, around or above the Premises now or at any future time except in quantities permitted by
applicable Environmental Laws.




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (17)
        (c)    If Tenant is in breach of any of its agreements set forth in this Section, Tenant, at
its sole expense, shall take all action required, including remediation of the Premises, to comply
with the covenants herein and applicable Environmental Laws. Tenant agrees to indemnify,
defend, protect and hold harmless Landlord and the Landlord Parties from and against any liability,
obligation, damage or costs, including without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs,
arising from third-party claims resulting directly or indirectly from any use, Release, removal or
disposal of any Hazardous Materials, to the extent such liability, obligation, damage or costs was
caused by Tenant or a Tenant Party, or by Tenant’s breach of the terms of this Section 13.3.

       (d)      Notwithstanding any provision in this Lease to the contrary, Tenant shall not be
responsible for, shall have no liability or obligations with respect to, and shall not be obligated to
pay for or take any action with respect to (i) the existence of any Hazardous Material on the
Premises which occurred or existed prior to the Commencement Date unless caused or knowingly
permitted by Tenant or any of Tenant’s Parties, (ii) the existence of any Hazardous Material on the
Premises which occurred or existed after the Commencement Date unless caused or knowingly
permitted by Tenant, (iii) the release of Hazardous Materials on, onto or from the Premises which
occurs during the Original Term or any Renewal Term unless caused or knowingly permitted by
Tenant, or (iv) any violation of any Environmental Laws which occurs during the Original Term
or any Renewal Term, unless and to the extent that such was caused or knowingly permitted by
Tenant.

                                          ARTICLE 14
                                  Warranty of Peaceful Possession

        14.1 Peaceful Possession. Landlord covenants that Tenant, on paying the Base Rent
and performing and observing the covenants and agreements herein contained and provided to be
performed by Tenant, shall and may peaceably and quietly have, hold, occupy, use and enjoy the
Premises during the Term and may exercise all of its rights hereunder, subject only to the
provisions of this Lease and applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations. Landlord agrees
to warrant and forever defend Tenant’s right to such occupancy, use and enjoyment and the title
to the Premises against the claims of any and all persons whomsoever lawfully claiming the same,
or any part thereof, by, through or under Landlord, but not otherwise, subject only to provisions
of this Lease and all applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations.

                                           ARTICLE 15
                                       Default and Remedies

          15.1     Defaults by Tenant. Each of the following shall be deemed a “Tenant Default”:

        (a)     Failure to pay Base Rent or any other amounts herein provided to be paid within
fifteen (15) days after written notice from Landlord to Tenant that the same is past due;

        (b)    Failure to perform any other act to be performed by Tenant hereunder or to comply
with any condition or covenant contained herein on Tenant’s part to be kept or performed and such
failure continues for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice from Landlord to Tenant;
provided that such period shall be extended for the period of time reasonably necessary to cure




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (18)
such failure so long as Tenant promptly commences such cure within such thirty (30)-day period
and thereafter diligently prosecutes such cure to completion; and

        (c)     Tenant’s adjudication as a bankrupt; the making by Tenant of a general assignment
for the benefit of its creditors; the appointment of a permanent receiver or trustee or custodian in
bankruptcy for Tenant or its assets; the appointment of a temporary receiver for Tenant or its assets
if such temporary receivership has not been vacated or set aside within ninety (90) days from the
date of such appointment; or the initiation of proceedings for the benefit of creditors by or against
Tenant which are not dismissed within ninety (90) days.

       15.2 Remedies of Landlord. Upon a Tenant Default described in Section 15.1 above,
Landlord may exercise any one or more of the following rights:

       (a)     Terminate this Lease by giving Tenant written notice thereof, in which event,
Tenant shall pay to Landlord the sum of (i) all Base Rent accrued hereunder through the date of
termination, and (ii) all reasonable costs incurred by Landlord (including court costs and
reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses) in (A) obtaining possession of the Premises, and (B)
removing, storing and/or disposing of Tenant’s property.

        (b)     Terminate Tenant’s right to possess the Premises without terminating this Lease by
giving written notice thereof to Tenant, in which event Tenant shall pay to Landlord (i) all Base
Rent and other amounts accrued hereunder to the date of termination of possession, (ii) all
reasonable costs incurred by Landlord (including court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees and
expenses) in (A) obtaining possession of the Premises, and (B) removing, storing and/or disposing
of Tenant’s property, and (iii) all Base Rent and other sums due from time to time as they become
due and are required hereunder to be paid by Tenant during the remainder of the Term, reduced by
any net sums thereafter received by Landlord through re-letting of the Premises during such period;
in any such re-letting, Tenant shall be relieved of its obligations under this Lease as of the date of
such re-letting. No re-entry by Landlord or any action brought by Landlord to remove Tenant
from the Premises shall operate to terminate this Lease unless Landlord shall have given written
notice of termination to Tenant, in which event Tenant’s liability shall be as above provided.

                   15.2.1. The remedies and rights provided for in this Lease are cumulative.

               15.2.2 Landlord agrees to use good faith, commercially reasonable efforts to
mitigate its damages arising out of any Tenant Default.

                15.2.3 Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Landlord shall
never be entitled to dispossess Tenant of the Premises pursuant to any “lock out” or other
nonjudicial remedy, Landlord hereby waiving its right to forcibly dispossess Tenant from the
Premises, whether peaceably or otherwise, without judicial process, such that Landlord shall not
be entitled to any “commercial lock-out” or any other provisions of applicable law which permit
landlords to dispossess tenants from commercial properties without the benefit of judicial review.

       15.3 Landlord’s Default. Each of the following shall be deemed a “Landlord’s
Default” by Landlord hereunder and a material breach of this Lease:




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                       (19)
        (a)      If Landlord fails to keep, perform or observe any of the covenants, agreements,
terms or provisions contained in this Lease that are to be kept or performed by Landlord and
Landlord fails to commence and take such steps as are necessary to remedy the same within thirty
(30) days after Landlord is given written notice specifying the same, or having so commenced,
thereafter fails to proceed diligently and with continuity to remedy the same.

        (b)    If an involuntary petition is filed against Landlord under any bankruptcy or
insolvency law or under the reorganization provisions of any law of like import or if a receiver of
Landlord, or of all or substantially all of the property of Landlord, is appointed without
acquiescence, and such petition or appointment is not discharged or stayed within sixty (60) days
after the happening of such event.

        (c)     If Landlord makes an assignment of its property for the benefit of creditors or files
a voluntary petition under any bankruptcy or insolvency law or seeks relief under any other law
for the benefit of debtors.

        15.4 Tenant’s Remedies. Upon a Landlord’s Default as described in Section 15.3
above, Tenant may, at any time thereafter prior to the curing thereof and without waiving any other
rights hereunder or available to Tenant at law or in equity (Tenant’s rights being cumulative), do
any one or both of the following:

       (a)    Tenant may perform Landlord’s obligations hereunder and offset the reasonable
costs and expenses incurred by Tenant in doing so against Base Rent thereafter coming due
hereunder.

        (b)    If Landlord’s Default prohibits Tenant’s use of or access to all or any portion of the
Premises for more than thirty (30) days, Tenant may terminate this Lease, in which event Tenant
shall have no further rights, duties or obligations hereunder.

        15.5 No Waiver. The failure of Landlord or Tenant to seek redress for violation of, or
to insist upon the strict performance of, any covenant or condition of this Lease shall not prevent
a subsequent act, which would have originally constituted a violation, from having all the force
and effect of an original violation. The receipt or acceptance by Landlord of Base Rent with
knowledge of the breach of any covenant of this Lease shall not be deemed a waiver of such breach.
No provision of this Lease shall be deemed to have been waived by Landlord or Tenant unless
such waiver be in writing signed by the party to be charged. No endorsement or statement on any
check or any letter accompanying any check or payment as rent shall be deemed an accord and
satisfaction, and Landlord may accept such check or payment without prejudice to Landlord’s right
to recover the balance of Base Rent or pursue any other remedy in this Lease.

                                         ARTICLE 16
                                Access Rights of Tenant to Land

        16.1          Road Access Easement. Landlord shall, at no additional cost to Tenant,
 grant Tenant a non-exclusive access easement (“Road Access Easement”) over and across that
 portion of Landlord’s Land described in Exhibit D-1 and depicted on Exhibit D-2 attached hereto
 (the “Access Easement Area”) in accordance with the terms of this Article 16. The Access
 Easement Area shall run from the point of the public road access point on ______________ to


{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                    (20)
 the location of the Premises as shown in Exhibit D-2, shall not exceed ____________ feet (__’)
 in width and shall provide vehicular and pedestrian access from the Land to _______________as
 shown in Exhibit D-2.

        16.2            Reservation of Rights. Landlord reserves unto itself, its respective
successors and assigns, the right (a) to grant, on a reasonable basis, other rights and easements
above, over, under, upon, along, through, or across the Access Easement Area at any place or
places as Landlord reasonably deems proper and (b) to place above, upon, under, over, across,
through and along the Access Easement Area such facilities and appurtenances, including, without
limitation, paving, drainage facilities and utility lines, as Landlord deems appropriate in order to
use and enjoy the Land exclusive of the Premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant’s use of
the Road Access Easement and use and enjoyment of the Premises shall not be unreasonably
disturbed or interrupted by the exercise of Landlord’s rights granted in the immediately preceding
sentence. In no event shall Landlord permit or allow any obstruction of any portion of the Access
Easement Area by permitting any barrier of any nature to obstruct the free flow of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic through the Access Easement Area.

       16.3 Binding Effect. The Road Access Easement granted hereby shall be binding upon
and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and all successive owners of the Land and shall for all
purposes run with the land as to the Land.

                                           ARTICLE 17
                                           Miscellaneous

        17.1 Notices. Any notice provided for or permitted to be given hereunder must be in
writing addressed to Landlord or Tenant as set forth in this Section, given by (a) depositing same
in the United States Mail, postage prepaid, registered or certified, with return receipt requested,
(b) depositing the same with a commercially recognized national courier service, (c) transmitted
by electronic mail, except for any notices of default, which may only be delivered in accordance
with clauses (a) and (b) above, or (d) personally delivered to the party to be notified. Notice given
in accordance herewith shall be effective upon receipt at the address of the addressee, as evidenced
by the executed postal receipt or other receipt for delivery. For purposes of notice the addresses
of the parties hereto shall, until changed, be as follows:

          Landlord:                    ________________
                                       ________________
                                       ________________
                                       ________________
                                       ________________

          Tenant:                      Google Fiber Utah, LLC
                                       1600 Amphitheater Parkway
                                       Mountain View, CA 94043
                                       Attn: Lease Administration
                                       Email: ________________

          With a copy to:              Google Fiber Utah, LLC



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (21)
                                         1600 Amphitheater Parkway
                                         Mountain View, CA 94043
                                         Attn: Legal Department/RE Matters
                                         Email: ________________

The parties hereto shall have the right from time to time to change their respective addresses for
purposes of notice hereunder to any other location by giving a notice to such effect in accordance
with the provisions of this Section.

        17.2 Modification and Non Waiver. No variations, modifications or changes herein or
hereof shall be binding upon any party hereto unless set forth in writing executed by both parties
hereto. No waiver by either party of any breach or default of any term, condition or provision
hereof, including without limitation the acceptance by Landlord of any Base Rent at any time or
in any manner other than as herein provided, shall be deemed a waiver of any other or subsequent
breaches or defaults of any kind, character or description under any circumstance. No waiver of
any breach or default of any term, condition or provision hereof shall be implied from any action
of any party, and any such waiver, to be effective, shall be set out in a written instrument signed
by the waiving party.

       17.3 Governing Law. This Lease shall be construed and enforced in accordance with
the laws of the State of Utah.

        17.4 Number and Gender; Caption; References. Pronouns, wherever used herein,
and of whatever gender, shall include natural persons and corporations and associations of every
kind and character, and the singular shall include the plural wherever and as often as may be
appropriate. Article and section headings in this Lease are for convenience of reference and shall
not affect the construction or interpretation of this Lease. Whenever the terms “hereof,” “hereby,”
“herein” or words of similar import are used in this Lease they shall be construed as referring to
this Lease in its entirety rather than to a particular section or provision, unless the context
specifically indicates to the contrary. Any reference to a particular “Article” or “Section” shall be
construed as referring to the indicated article or section of this Lease. Whenever placed before
one or more items, the words “include,” “includes,” and “including” shall mean considered as part
of a larger group, and not limited to the item(s) recited.

          17.5     Exhibits. All exhibits attached hereto are incorporated herein for all purposes.

        17.6 Severability. If any provision of this Lease or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance shall, at any time or to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, and the basis of
the bargain between the parties hereto is not destroyed or rendered ineffective thereby, the
remainder of this Lease, or the application of such provisions to persons or circumstances other
than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby.

       17.7 Attorney Fees. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in any action or
proceeding arising out of this Lease, each party shall bear its own attorneys’ fees and costs.

       17.8 Surrender of Premises; Holding Over. Tenant shall quit and surrender the
Premises at the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. The Premises shall be broom clean,
in good condition and repair, except for ordinary wear and tear, damage that is Landlord’s


{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                       (22)
responsibility to repair hereunder, damage by eminent domain, fire and casualty, and all
alterations, additions and improvements. At the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease, any
holdover shall be from month to month at 110% of the Base Rent for the month preceding the
expiration or earlier termination of this Lease, and otherwise on the same terms and conditions as
herein provided. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary within this Lease, Tenant may, at its
sole and absolute discretion, prior to expiration or termination of the Term (or any renewal
thereof), raze or demolish any Improvements (pursuant to Section 7.6) and surrender the Premises
without Improvements.

        17.9 Relation of Parties. It is the intention of Landlord and Tenant to hereby create the
relationship of landlord and tenant, and no other relationship whatsoever is hereby created.
Nothing in this Lease shall be construed to make Landlord and Tenant partners or joint venturers
or to render either party hereto liable for any obligation of the other.

        17.10 Force Majeure. As used herein “Force Majeure” shall mean the occurrence of
any event, including, without limitation, strikes, riots, acts of God, shortages of labor or materials,
terrorist activities, acts of war, governmental actions or inactions, laws, or regulations (including,
without limitation, restrictions, directives or orders), epidemics, pandemics, inability to secure
contractors, subcontractors, or labor through ordinary sources by reason of industry-wide delay,
regulation or order of any Governmental Authority (including, without limitation, any so called
“shelter-in-place” or “stay-home” orders), or due to any other causes of any kind whatsoever that
are beyond such party’s reasonable control, which prevents or delays the performance by Landlord
or Tenant of any obligation imposed upon it hereunder and the prevention or cessation of which
event is beyond the reasonable control of the obligor. If either party shall be delayed, hindered or
prevented from performance of any of its obligations by reason of Force Majeure, the time for
performance of such obligation shall be extended for the period of such delay, provided that the
following requirements are complied with by such party: (a) such party shall give prompt written
notice of such occurrence to the other party, and (b) such party shall reasonably attempt to remove,
resolve or otherwise eliminate such event and commence performance of its obligations hereunder
immediately upon such removal, resolution or elimination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no
event shall Force Majeure impact, modify or reduce any of Tenant’s termination rights or right to
abate or offset Base Rent.

        17.11 Entire Agreement. This Lease constitutes the entire agreement of the parties
hereto with respect to its subject matter, and all prior agreements with respect thereto are merged
herein. Any agreements entered into between Landlord and Tenant of even date herewith are not,
however, merged herein.

        17.12 Recordation. Landlord and Tenant will, at the request of the other, promptly
execute a Memorandum of Lease substantially in the form of Exhibit F attached hereto, which
shall be filed for record in the Office of the County Clerk of Bexar County, Texas.

        17.13 Successors and Assigns. This Lease shall constitute a covenant running with the
Premises, and, subject to the provisions hereof pertaining to Tenant’s rights to assign, sublet or
encumber, this Lease shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their
respective successors and assigns. Whenever a reference is made herein to either party, such
reference shall include the party’s successors and assigns.


{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (23)
       17.14 Joinder. Each party agrees to join with the other party in the execution of such
applications for permits and licenses from any Governmental Authority as may be reasonably
necessary or appropriate to effectuate the intents and purposes of this Lease, provided that no such
application shall constitute an encumbrance of or with respect to the Premises, and provided further
that Landlord shall not incur or become liable for any obligation as a result of any joinder by it.

       17.15 No Third Parties Benefitted. The terms and provisions of this Lease are for the
sole benefit of Landlord and Tenant, and no third party is intended to benefit here from.

        17.16 Survival. All indemnity provisions contained herein shall survive the expiration
or earlier termination of this Lease. In addition, any other terms and provisions of this Lease
pertaining to rights, duties or liabilities extending beyond the expiration or termination of this
Lease shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

     17.17 Landlord’s Lien. LANDLORD HEREBY WAIVES AND DISCLAIMS ALL
STATUTORY AND CONTRACTUAL LIEN RIGHTS IN TENANT’S PROPERTY NOW
OR HEREAFTER LOCATED WITHIN OR ON THE PREMISES.

         17.18 Transfer of Landlord’s Interest. Landlord may freely transfer and/or mortgage
its interest in the Premises and under this Lease from time to time and at any time, provided that
any such transfer or mortgage is expressly made subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of
this Lease, and the transferee or mortgagee agrees to be bound by the provisions hereof (in the
case of a mortgagee, such agreement being contingent upon the mortgagee actually succeeding to
Landlord’s interest in the Premises and hereunder by virtue of a foreclosure or conveyance in lieu
thereof).

        17.19 Landlord and Tenant Defined. The word “Landlord”, as used in this Lease, shall
include the original Landlord named in this Lease and all persons, natural or artificial, who at any
time or from time to time during the Term of this Lease succeed to the estate of Landlord in the
Land and the interest of Landlord under this Lease. The word “Tenant”, as used in this Lease,
shall include the original Tenant named in this Lease and all persons, natural or artificial, who at
any time or from time to time during the Term of this Lease succeed to the estate of Tenant in the
Premises and the interest of Tenant under this Lease.

        17.20 Commissions. Each party hereby warrants and represents to the other party that it
has not dealt with any broker in the negotiation of this Lease. Landlord agrees to pay to its broker
all commissions required to be paid in connection with the negotiation, execution and performance
of this Lease pursuant to a separate agreement. Each party hereby agrees to indemnify and hold
harmless the other party from and against any other commissions or finder’s fees due by virtue of
the negotiation, execution and performance of this Lease, the obligation or asserted claim for which
arises from actions taken or claimed to be taken by the indemnifying party.

        17.21 Authority. Landlord and Tenant hereby represent to the other that: (a) Landlord
is a duly authorized and existing limited liability company and Tenant is a duly authorized and
existing limited liability company, and each is qualified to do business in the State of Utah, (b) each
has full right and authority to enter into this Lease, (c) each person signing on behalf of Landlord
and Tenant are authorized to do so, and (d) the execution and delivery of this Lease by Landlord



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     (24)
and Tenant will not result in any breach of, or constitute a default under any mortgage, deed of
trust, lease, loan, credit agreement, limited liability agreement, partnership agreement or other
contract or instrument to which either Landlord or Tenant is a party or by which either such party
may be bound.

       17.22 Time of Essence. Time is of the essence of this Lease and each and all of its
provisions in which performance is a factor.

        17.23 Fee Mortgages of Landlord. Landlord shall hereinafter have the right from time
to time to mortgage its interest in the Land, provided that all such mortgages shall automatically
be deemed to be subject to and subordinate to this Lease (whether or not the mortgage so states).
All such mortgages granted by Landlord and other monetary liens and any increases, renewals,
modifications, consolidations, replacements and extensions thereof are hereinafter collectively
called "Landlord's Mortgages" or, in the singular, a “Landlord’s Mortgage.” The holder of a
Landlord’s Mortgage shall upon request confirm the foregoing subordination in writing for the
benefit of Tenant, but the failure of any holder of a Landlord‘s Mortgage to confirm such
subordination will not affect the priority of this Lease relative to that Landlord’s Mortgage.

         17.24 Non-Disturbance Agreement. Contemporaneously with its execution of this
Lease, Landlord shall deliver to Tenant a Subordination, Non Disturbance and Attornment
Agreement in the form of Exhibit G attached hereto (“Non-Disturbance Agreement”), executed
and acknowledged by Landlord and __________[LL: CONFIRM NO LENDER]. If Landlord
fails to deliver the Non Disturbance Agreement with the executed copies of this Lease, this Lease
shall be in effect but, for purposes of the time periods which begin on the Effective Date, the
Effective Date shall not be deemed to have occurred until such time as the properly executed and
acknowledged Non Disturbance Agreement is received by Tenant. Tenant shall have the right to
terminate this Lease at any time prior to Tenant’s receipt of the properly executed and
acknowledged Non-Disturbance Agreement.

       17.25 Tenant’s Signage. Tenant shall have the right to construct, install, maintain, repair
and replace its signage on the Premises, to the maximum extent permitted by municipal and all
other governmental controls.

        17.26 Holidays. If a date for performance by either party falls on a Saturday, Sunday or
on a legal holiday, such date for performance shall instead be the next following business day.

        17.27 Leasehold Mortgages. Tenant shall be entitled to grant mortgages, deeds of trust
or other liens on its leasehold interests under this Lease, provided Tenant first provides Landlord
with written notice of such mortgage, deed of trust or lien. It is not Tenant’s initial intention to
grant a lien on its leasehold, but in the event Tenant so elects, Landlord agrees to make such
reasonable modifications to this Lease as may be requested by any leasehold mortgagee which are
in substantial conformance with the model leasehold mortgage provisions promulgated by the
American Bar Association.

        17.28 OFAC Landlord Representation. Landlord represents and warrants to Tenant
that as of the date of this Lease, Landlord is not an entity with whom any United States law,
regulation, or executive order prohibits U.S. companies and individuals from dealing, including,



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                    (25)
without limitation, names appearing on the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign
Assets Control’s Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List.

        17.29 OFAC Tenant Representation. Tenant represents and warrants to Landlord that
as of the date of this Lease, Tenant is not an entity with whom any United States law, regulation,
or executive order prohibits U.S. companies and individuals from dealing, including, without
limitation, names appearing on the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets
Control’s Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List.

        17.30 Right of First Refusal to Purchase. Provided that the Land is or becomes a
separately divided legal plat during the Term, Tenant shall have the right of first refusal to purchase
the Premises (in and of itself and not as a package of other properties) from Landlord or its
respective successors or assigns (collectively “Seller”). If Seller receives a bona fide offer from a
third party to purchase the Premises or any interest therein or any portion thereof, which offer
Seller desires to accept (“Offer”), then prior to acceptance thereof, Seller shall promptly give
Tenant written notice of such Offer which notice shall include a copy of such Offer (“Seller’s
Notice”). If Tenant elects to exercise its rights hereunder, it shall exercise its right of first refusal
hereunder by giving Seller, any earnest money or deposit included in the Offer within sixty (60)
days after Tenant’s receipt of Seller’s Notice and a written confirmation within said sixty (60) day
period of Tenant’s intent to purchase the Premises pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth
in such offer (“Buyer’s Notice”).

If Tenant timely delivers the Buyer’s Notice, the parties shall have a period of thirty (30) days to
execute and deliver a written purchase agreement containing all of the terms and conditions upon
which Landlord shall sell to Tenant and Tenant shall buy from Landlord the Premises (the
economic terms and conditions of which shall be consistent with the Seller’s Notice). Landlord
and Tenant agree to use reasonable efforts to negotiate and execute the purchase agreement within
such thirty (30) day period. If the parties are unable to execute and deliver the written purchase
agreement within said thirty (30) day period, all rights of Tenant to purchase the Premises shall
terminate and, except as provided below, Landlord shall have no further obligation to notify Tenant
of any proposed offer or sale of the Premises and Landlord shall thereafter have the right to offer,
negotiate and sell the Premises to any party, subject to the limitations set forth below.

If Tenant does not timely exercise its right of first refusal by giving Landlord written notice on or
before the expiration of said sixty (60) day period or does not timely deliver the earnest money or
deposit, then Seller shall be entitled to sell the Premises (subject to this Lease) on the same terms
and conditions as the Offer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Tenant does not exercise its right
of first refusal and, thereafter, the terms of the Offer change in any material respect including,
without limitation, the purchase price or any other monetary consideration (“Amended Offer”),
then Seller shall give written notice to Tenant of each such Amended Offer and Tenant shall have
thirty (30) days after receipt of Seller’s notice thereof to exercise Tenant’s right of first refusal
hereunder. If Tenant does not exercise its right of first refusal hereunder and, thereafter, Seller
fails to consummate the sale of the Premises in accordance with the Offer, then Tenant’s right of
first refusal hereunder shall continue in full force and effect with respect to all subsequent Offers
received by Seller so long as this Lease is in full force and effect. If Tenant does not exercise its
right of first refusal hereunder and thereafter Seller consummates the sale of the Premises in



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                      (26)
accordance with the Offer, then Tenant’s right of first refusal hereunder shall cease and Tenant
shall have no further right of first refusal to purchase the Premises pursuant to this Section.

               [THE BALANCE OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                  (27)
EXECUTED as of the dates set forth below.


                                             LANDLORD:

 Dated: ______________, 2022                 ___________________________,
                                             a _______________________

                                             By:
                                             Name:
                                             Title:

                                             TENANT:

 Dated: ______________, 2022                 GOOGLE FIBER UTAH, LLC
                                             A Utah limited liability company

                                             By:
                                             Name:
                                             Title:




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                (28)
                                          EXHIBIT LIST

“A-1” Legal Description of Land

“A-2” Diagram of Land

“B”       Rent Commencement Date Letter

“C”       List of All Mortgages and Liens Affecting the Land

“D-1” Legal Description of Access Easement Property

“D-2” Location of Access Easement

“F”       Form of Memorandum of Lease

“G”       Form of Subordination and Non-Disturbance Agreement

“H”       List of Reports




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                    (29)
                                        EXHIBIT A-1

                             LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF LAND


An area of land situated within the northeast quarter of section 6, Township 4 South, Range 1
West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, Salt Lake County, Utah; being described as follows:

Beginning at a point South 00°18’23” East 333.11 feet along the section line, and South
89°41’37” West 45.36 feet from the Northeast Corner of Section 6, Township 4 South, Range 1
West, Salt Lake Base & Meridian; And running thence South 03°08’16” East 32.00 feet; Thence
South 86°51’44” West 50.00 feet; Thence North 03°08’16” West 32.00 feet; Thence North
86°51’44” East 50.00 feet to the point of beginning.
Contains 1,600 square feet, or 0.036 acre




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                  A-1-1
{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease              A-3-1
                                        EXHIBIT B

                          RENT COMMENCEMENT DATE LETTER

Ground Lease Dated:        ____________________, 20___

Landlord:

Tenant:

Premises:




       Landlord and Tenant hereby agree that the Rent Commencement Date for the Ground
Lease is _______________________, 20__, and the last day of the Original Term shall be
______________________.


                                             LANDLORD:

                                             _______________, ___,
                                             a _________________________

                                             By:
                                             Name:
                                             Title:

                                             TENANT:

                                             GOOGLE FIBER UTAH, LLC,
                                             A Utah limited liability company

                                             By:
                                             Name:
                                             Title:




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                B-1
                                       EXHIBIT C

                          LIST OF ALL LIENS AFFECTING THE LAND



                                   See Title Report Below




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                C-1
File No. 2266665HM



                                      COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE
                                                       SCHEDULE A
                                                    ALTA COMMITMENT

1.       Commitment Date: May 20, 2022 at 8:00 AM

2.       Policy or Policies to be issued:

         (a)   ALTA EXTENDED OWNER'S POLICY 6-17-2006
               Proposed Insured:    To Be Determined
               Amount of Insurance: To Be Determined
               Premium:             To Be Determined
               Endorsements:        To Be Determined
               Endorsement Amount: To Be Determined

         (b) ALTA EXTENDED LOAN POLICY 6-17-2006
             Proposed Insured:    To Be Determined
             Amount of Insurance: To Be Determined
             Premium:             To Be Determined
             Endorsements:        To Be Determined
             Endorsement Amount: To Be Determined

3.       The estate or interest in the land described or referred to in this Commitment is Fee Simple.

4.       Title to the estate or interest in the Land is at the Commitment Date vested in:

         Riverton City

5.       The land referred to in this Commitment is described as follows:

         See Attached Exhibit "A"

Property Address:                                                COUNTERSIGNED

(land located approximately at 4050 West and Innovation
Drive)
Riverton, Utah
                                                                 Old Republic National Title Insurance Company




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the
Notice; the Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and
Schedule B, Part II - Exceptions.
ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                              Page 1
ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
File No. 2266665HM


                                                       EXHIBIT "A"

A parcel of land in fee for the realignment of 4000 West Street, being part of an entire tract of property situate
in the Northeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 4 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian. The
boundaries of said parcel being described as follows:

Beginning at a point on the Northerly boundary line of said entire tract, which point is 273.56 feet
N.89°49'03"W. along the Section Line and 296.99 feet South from the Northeast Corner of said Section 6; and
running thence S.39°14'03"E. 12.71 feet to the point of tangency of a 550.00-foot radius curve to the left;
thence Southeasterly 100.56 feet along the arc of said curve, (chord bears S.44°28'19"E. 100.42 feet) to the
point of reverse curvature of a 470.00-foot radius curve to the right; thence Southeasterly 405.22 feet along
the arc of said curve, (chord bears S.25°00'37"E. 392.78 feet) to the Westerly right of way line of the existing
4000 West street and a point of cusp; thence along said Westerly right of way line N.00°18°39"W. 436.69 feet
to the Northerly boundary of grantor's property; thence along said Northerly boundary line N.89°49'03"W.
242.09 feet to the point of beginning.




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions.
ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                              Page 2
ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
     File No. 2266665HM


                                                             SCHEDULE B - I
                                                             ALTA COMMITMENT

                                                                  REQUIREMENTS

All of the following Requirements must be met:

1.       The Proposed Insured must notify the Company in writing of the name of any party not referred to in this Commitment who will
         obtain an interest in the Land or who will make a loan on the Land. The Company may then make additional Requirements or
         Exceptions.

2.       Pay the agreed amount for the estate or interest to be insured.

3.       Pay the premiums, fees, and charges for the Policy to the Company.

4.       Documents satisfactory to the Company that convey the Title or create the Mortgage to be insured, or both, must be properly
         authorized, executed, delivered, and recorded in the Public Records.

5.        Obtain a copy of the Articles and/or Certificates of Organization or Incorporation, Bylaws or Operating Agreement (whichever
          may apply) for: Riverton City

6.        Release(s) and/or reconveyance(s) of Items contained in Schedule B of Exceptions.

7.        Delivery to the Company of a sufficient survey, certified to Old Republic National Title Insurance Company, and other certified
          parties by a registered Land Surveyor, and meeting the "Minimum Standard Detail Requirement" as jointly adopted by the
          ALTA and the ACSM.

          NOTE: This commitment shall be subject to matters (including, but not limited to encroachments, overlaps, gaps, etc.) as they
          may become apparent after an evaluation of said survey.

8.        Record Warranty Deed sufficient to convey the fee simple estate or interest in the property described or referred to herein.

9.        Deed of Trust sufficient to encumber the fee simple estate or interest in the property described or referred to herein, for the
          benefit of the Proposed Insured, Schedule A, item 2B.

10.       Title is to vest in persons not yet revealed, and when so vested will then be subject to matters disclosed by a search of the record
          against their names.




     This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
     Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
     Exceptions.
     ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                                       Page 3
     ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
File No. 2266665HM


                                                        SCHEDULE B - II
                                                       ALTA COMMITMENT
                                                              EXCEPTIONS

THIS COMMITMENT DOES NOT REPUBLISH ANY COVENANT, CONDITION, RESTRICTION, OR LIMITATION
CONTAINED IN ANY DOCUMENT REFERRED TO IN THIS COMMITMENT TO THE EXTENT THAT THE SPECIFIC
COVENANT, CONDITION, RESTRICTION, OR LIMITATION VIOLATES STATE OR FEDERAL LAW BASED ON RACE,
COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, GENDER IDENTITY, HANDICAP, FAMILIAL STATUS, OR
NATIONAL ORIGIN.

The Policy will not insure against loss or damage resulting from the terms and provisions of any lease or easement identified in
Schedule A, and will include the following Exceptions unless cleared to the satisfaction of the Company:

General Exception

  1.   Any defect, lien, encumbrance, adverse claim, or other matter that appears for the first time in the Public Records or is
       created, attaches, or is disclosed between the Commitment Date and the date on which all of the Schedule B, Part
       I-Requirements are met.

Standard Exceptions

  2.   Taxes or assessments which are not now payable or which are not shown as existing liens by the records of any taxing
       authority that levies taxes or assessment on real property or by the public records.

  3.   Any facts, interest, or claims which are not shown by the public records but which could be ascertained by an inspection of
       said land or by making inquiry of persons in possession, or claiming to be in possession, thereof.

  4.   Easements, liens, encumbrances, or claims of easements, liens or encumbrances which are not shown by the public records

  5.   Discrepancies, conflicts in boundary lines, shortage in area, encroachments, or any other facts which a correct survey
       would disclose, and which are not shown by the public records.

  6.   Unpatented mining claims, reservations or exceptions in patents or in Acts authorizing the issuance thereof, Indian treaty
       or aboriginal rights, including but not limited, easements or equitable servitudes, water rights, or claims or title to water.

  7.   Any liens, or right to a lien, for services, labor or material theretofore or hereafter furnished, imposed by law and not
       shown by the public records.

  8.   Any service, installations, connections, maintenance, or construction charges for sewer, water, electricity, or garbage.

       Note: General Exception 1 and Standard Exceptions 2 - 8 will be deleted on any extended coverage loan policy




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions.
ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                                        Page 4
ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
 File No. 2266665HM




 Special Exceptions

9.    2022 General Property Taxes are accruing and are not yet due and payable under Tax ID No. . (no Tax ID No. Assigned).

      2021 General Property Taxes for the year were given an EXEMPTION and/or TAX RELIEF.

      **Please contact the County Treasurer's Office for particulars.

      (Note: by virtue of the Tax ID being not assigned for the subject land, the subject land can be identified on the County
      Plat/Assessor Map, as lying South of Tax ID No. 33-06-200-072, East of Tax ID No. 33-06-200-065, lying within Section 6,
      Township 4 South, Range 1 West, SLB&M)

10.   Subject property is included within the boundaries of Tax District 42 and is subject to the charges and assessments thereof. For
      status of the account contact, with may include (in part or in whole) the following districts:
      -         Riverton City
      -         South Valley Sewer District
      -         Unified Fire Service (Collected with Salt Lake County Property Taxes)
      -         Riverton Fire Service Area
      -         Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement
      -         Riverton Law Enforcement
      -         South Salt Lake Valley Mosquito Abatement District
      -         Western Commercial CDA

11.   Water rights, or claims or title to water.

12.   Minerals of whatsoever kind, subsurface and surface substances, including but not limited to coal, lignite, oil, gas, geothermal
      resources, uranium, clay, rock, sand and gravel in, on, and/or under and that may be produced from the Land, together with all
      rights, privileges, and immunities relating thereto, whether or not appearing in the Public Records or listed in Schedule B. The
      Company makes no representation as to the present ownership of any such interests. There may be leases, grants, exceptions or
      reservations of interests that are not listed.

13.   Reservations and conditions in the United States Patent recorded August 1, 1907 as Entry No. 225407 in Book 7-E at Page 69 of
      Official Records, which states in part: Subject to any vested and accrued water rights for mining, agricultural, manufacturing or
      other purposes and rights to ditches and reservoirs used in connection with such water rights as may be recognized and
      acknowledged by the local customs, laws, and decisions of courts, and also subject to the right of a proprietor of a vein or lode to
      extract and remove his ore therefrom should the same be found to penetrate or intersect the premises hereby granted, as
      provided by law, and there is reserved from the lands hereby granted, a right of way thereon for ditches or canals constructed by
      the authority of the United States.

14.   Easements and rights of way for an existing canal and wash, and/or Rose Creek adjacent to and partially affecting the land on
      the North, as disclosed by mesne instruments of record and maps.

15.   Easement and right of way of the public for road and utility purposes, of the realigned roadway known as 4000 West Street over
      the Westerly portion of the subject land.



 This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
 Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
 Exceptions.
 ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                                     Page 5
 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
 File No. 2266665HM


16.   Reservations and exceptions of an undivided one-half interest in and to all oil, gas, petroleum, naphtha, other hydrocarbon
      substances and minerals of whatsoever kind and nature, etc. (see document for full particulars), by that certain Special Warranty
      Deed, exected by The Federal Land Bank of Berkeley, as Grantor, and Joe Moscaro and Mary Moscaro, as Grantees, recorded
      November 12, 1943 as Entry No. 963704 in Book 362 at Page 592 of Official Records.

17.   Riverton Annexation Policy Declaration, by Riverton City and the matters set forth therein, recorded April 26, 1995 as Entry
      No. 6068027 in Book 7139 at Page 2515 of Official Records.

18.   An Unrecorded Lease executed by Board of Education of Jordan School District, as Lessor, and Sprint Spectrum L.P., a
      Delaware limited partnership, as Lessee for a term of five (5) years and right to extend for five (5) additional five (5)-year terms,
      as disclosed by that certain Memorandum of Lease:
      Dated:            January 3, 2001
      Recorded:         August 23, 2001
      Entry No.:        7982704
      Book:             8492
      Page:             3070, of the Official Records

      (Exact location of facilities not disclosed)

      (Affects this and other property)

19.   An Unrecorded Lease executed by Board of Education of Jordan School District, as Lessor, and T-Mobile West Corporation, a
      Delaware corporation, as successor in interest to VoiceStream PCS II Corporation, a Delaware corporation, as Lessee for a term
      of five (5) years and five (5) options to renew for five (5) years each, as disclosed by that certain Memorandum of Lease:
      Dated:             November 15, 2000
      Recorded:          July 7, 2011
      Entry No.:         11208755
      Book:              9935
      Page:              2790, of the Official Records

      (Exact location of facilities not disclosed)

      (Affects this and other property)

20.   An Unrecorded Lease executed by T-Mobile West Corporation, a Delaware corporation, as Lessor, and Verizon Wireless
      (VAW) LLC d/b/a Verizon Wireless, as Lessee for a term of five (5) years with four (4) successive five (5) years options to
      renew, as disclosed by that certain Mamorandum of Lease:
      Dated:            September 14, 2011
      Recorded:         November 3, 2011
      Entry No.:        11273372
      Book:             9963
      Page:             9441, of the Official Records

      (Exact location of facilities not disclosed)

      (Affects this and other property)




 This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
 Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
 Exceptions.
 ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                                       Page 6
 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
  File No. 2266665HM



 21.   Right of Entry Agreement, by and between The Board of Education of the Jordan School District, as Grantor, in favor of
       Riverton City, a Utah municipal corporation, as Grantee, and the matters set forth therein, recorded November 17, 2011 as
       Entry No. 11281498 in Book 9967 at Page 5471 of Official Records.

       (Note: the described therein easements and conveyance to Riverton City have been recorded and Riverton City now owns in fee
       the subject land as described in said agreement and set forth herein)

 22.   Easement, in favor of Riverton City, for the the inprovements, maintenance, ingress to and egress from of Rose Creek Drainage
       Channel, and incidental rights and purposes set forth therein, recorded December 7, 2011 as Entry No. 11293145 in Book 9972
       at Page 8123 of Official Records.

       (Affects that portion over the North or adjacent to the North property line)

 23.   Memorandum of Easement, by Board of Education of Jordan School District, a public corporation of the State of Utah, as
       Grantor, in favor of Verizon Wireless (VAW) LLC d/b/a Verizon Wireless, as Grantee, setting forth notice for an unrecorded
       easement in a location not disclosed therein, for right of access and utility and incidental rights and purposes thereunder,
       recorded May 7, 2012 as Entry No. 11385686 in Book 10015 at Page 2041 of Official Records.

       (Exact location of facilities not disclosed)

       (Affects this and other property)

 24.   Discrepancies, conflicts in boundary lines, shortage in area, encroachments, or any other facts which a correct survey would
       disclose, and which are not shown by the public records.

 25.   The rights of parties in possession of subject property under unrecorded Contracts, Leases, Rental or Occupancy Agreements
       and any claim and/or claim liens thereunder.

 26.   The Company requires the name of the proposed purchaser(s) in order to secure a search for any applicable judgment, tax and/or
       other statutory liens and matters. The company may then make additional exceptions and requirements.



____________________________________________________________________________________________________




  This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
  Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
  Exceptions.
  ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                                    Page 7
  ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
File No. 2266665HM



     NOTE: The following name(s) have been checked for judgments and no unsatisfied judgments appear of record, except as
     shown herein:

     (to be determined upon disclosure of purchaser name)

     Additional Note: the name of Riverton City, being a governmental agency/entity exempt from judgment execution, has NOT
     been checked for judgments.




For Escrow inquiries contact Hillary Morgan, 801-753-7700 or HMorgan@oldrepublictitle.com


If one of the Title Insurance Policies referenced in Schedule A is not purchased within six months of the Effective Date referenced in
Schedule A, a cancellation charge will be assessed.

The policy to be issued contains an arbitration clause. Any matter in dispute between you and the company may be subject to
arbitration as an alternative to court action. Upon request, the company will provide a copy of this clause and the accompanying
arbitration rules prior to the closing of the transaction. Any decision reached by arbitration shall be binding upon both you and the
Company. The arbitration award may include attorney's fees, if allowed by state law, and may be entered as a judgment in any court
of proper jurisdiction.




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions.
ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                                     Page 8
ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
 File No. 2266665HM




                                                            Commitment for Title Insurance
                                                            Issued By Old Republic National Title Insurance Company

                                                            NOTICE


 IMPORTANT-READ CAREFULLY:THIS COMMITMENT IS AN OFFER TO ISSUE ONE OR MORE TITLE INSURANCE POLICIES.
 ALL CLAIMS OR REMEDIES SOUGHT AGAINST THE COMPANY INVOLVING THE CONTENT OF THIS COMMITMENT OR THE
 POLICY MUST BE BASED SOLELY IN CONTRACT.


 THIS COMMITMENT IS NOT AN ABSTRACT OF TITLE, REPORT OF THE CONDITION OF TITLE, LEGAL OPINION, OPINION OF TITLE, OR OTHER
 REPRESENTATION OF THE STATUS OF TITLE. THE PROCEDURES USED BY THE COMPANY TO DETERMINE INSURABILITY OF THE TITLE,
 INCLUDING ANY SEARCH AND EXAMINATION, ARE PROPRIETARY TO THE COMPANY, WERE PERFORMED SOLELY FOR THE BENEFIT OF
 THE COMPANY, AND CREATE NO EXTRACONTRACTUAL LIABILITY TO ANY PERSON, INCLUDING A PROPOSED INSURED.
 THE COMPANY'S OBLIGATION UNDER THIS COMMITMENT IS TO ISSUE A POLICY TO A PROPOSED INSURED IDENTIFIED IN SCHEDULE
 A IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS AND PROVISIONS OF THIS COMMITMENT. THE COMPANY HAS NO LIABILITY OR OBLIGATION
 INVOLVING THE CONTENT OF THIS COMMITMENT TO ANY OTHER PERSON

                                                     COMMITMENT TO ISSUE POLICY

 Subject to the Notice; Schedule B, Part I-Requirements; Schedule B, Part II-Exceptions; and the Commitment Conditions, Old Republic National
 Title Insurance Company, a Florida Corporation (the “ Company”  ), commits to issue the Policy according to the terms and provisions of this
 Commitment. This Commitment is effective as of the Commitment Date shown in Schedule A for each Policy described in Schedule A, only when
 the Company has entered in Schedule A both the specified dollar amount as the Proposed Policy Amount and the name of the Proposed Insured.

 If all of the Schedule B, Part I-Requirements have not been met within 6 months after the Commitment Date, this Commitment terminates and the
 Company's liability and obligation end.


Issued through the Office of:
Old Republic National Title Insurance-Commercial
299 S. Main Street, Ste 120
Salt Lake City, UT 84111




Authorized Signatory




 This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
 Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
 Exceptions.
  ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                                           Page 9
  ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
File No. 2266665HM




                                                    COMMITMENT CONDITIONS

1. DEFINITIONS
     (a) “Knowledge ”or “     Known ”  : Actual or imputed knowledge, but not constructive notice imparted by the Public Records.
     (b) “Land”  : The land described in Schedule A and affixed improvements that by law constitute real property. The term“      Land”does not
         include any property beyond the lines of the area described in Schedule A, nor any right, title, interest, estate, or easement in
         abutting streets, roads, avenues, alleys, lanes, ways, or waterways, but this does not modify or limit the extent that a right of access
         to and from the Land is to be insured by the Policy.
     (c) “Mortgage ”   : A mortgage, deed of trust, or other security instrument, including one evidenced by electronic means authorized
         by law.
     (d) “Policy”  : Each contract of title insurance, in a form adopted by the American Land Title Association, issued or to be issued by the
         Company pursuant to this Commitment.
     (e) “Proposed Insured”    : Each person identified in Schedule A as the Proposed Insured of each Policy to be issued pursuant
         to this Commitment.
     (f) “Proposed Policy Amount”     : Each dollar amount specified in Schedule A as the Proposed Policy Amount of each Policy to
         be issued pursuant to this Commitment.
     (g) “Public Records”   : Records established under state statutes at the Commitment Date for the purpose of imparting constructive
         notice of matters relating to real property to purchasers for value and without Knowledge.
     (h) “Title” : The estate or interest described in Schedule A.

2.   If all of the Schedule B, Part I-Requirements have not been met within the time period specified in the Commitment to Issue Policy,
      this Commitment terminates and the Company's liability and obligation end.

3.   The Company's liability and obligation is limited by and this Commitment is not valid without:
      (a) the Notice;
      (b) the Commitment to Issue Policy;
      (c) the Commitment Conditions;
      (d) Schedule A;
      (e) Schedule B, Part I-Requirements;
      (f) Schedule B, Part II-Exceptions; and
      (g) a counter-signature by the Company or its issuing agent that may be in electronic form.

4.   COMPANY'S RIGHT TO AMEND
     The Company may amend this Commitment at any time. If the Company amends this Commitment to add a defect, lien, encumbrance,
     adverse
     claim, or other matter recorded in the Public Records prior to the Commitment Date, any liability of the Company is limited by
     Commitment Condition 5. The Company shall not be liable for any other amendment to this Commitment.

5.   LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY
     (a) The Company's liability under Commitment Condition 4 is limited to the Proposed Insured's actual expense incurred in the interval
         between the Company's delivery to the Proposed Insured of the Commitment and the delivery of the amended Commitment, resulting
         from the Proposed Insured's good faith reliance to:
         (i)      comply with the Schedule B, Part I-Requirements;
         (ii)     eliminate, with the Company's written consent, any Schedule B, Part II-Exceptions; or


This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions.
ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                                           Page 10
ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
File No. 2266665HM


         (iii)      acquire the Title or create the Mortgage covered by this Commitment.
     (b) The Company shall not be liable under Commitment Condition 5(a) if the Proposed Insured requested the amendment or had
            Knowledge of the matter and did not notify the Company about it in writing.
     (c) The Company will only have liability under Commitment Condition 4 if the Proposed Insured would not have incurred the expense
            had the Commitment included the added matter when the Commitment was first delivered to the Proposed Insured.
     (d) The Company's liability shall not exceed the lesser of the Proposed Insured's actual expense incurred in good faith and
          described in Commitment Conditions 5(a)(i) through 5(a)(iii) or the Proposed Policy Amount.
     (e) The Company shall not be liable for the content of the Transaction Identification Data, if any.
     (f) In no event shall the Company be obligated to issue the Policy referred to in this Commitment unless all of the Schedule B,
            Part I- Requirements have been met to the satisfaction of the Company.
     (g) In any event, the Company's liability is limited by the terms and provisions of the Policy.

6. LIABILITY OF THE COMPANY MUST BE BASED ON THIS COMMITMENT
     (a) Only a Proposed Insured identified in Schedule A, and no other person, may make a claim under this Commitment.
     (b) Any claim must be based in contract and must be restricted solely to the terms and provisions of this Commitment.
     (c) Until the Policy is issued, this Commitment, as last revised, is the exclusive and entire agreement between the parties with respect to
         the subject matter of this Commitment and supersedes all prior commitment negotiations, representations, and proposals of any
         kind, whether written or oral, express or implied, relating to the subject matter of this Commitment.
     (d) The deletion or modification of any Schedule B, Part II-Exception does not constitute an agreement or obligation to provide
         coverage beyond the terms and provisions of this Commitment or the Policy.
     (e) Any amendment or endorsement to this Commitment must be in writing and authenticated by a person authorized by the
         Company.
     (f) When the Policy is issued, all liability and obligation under this Commitment will end and the Company's only liability will
         be under the Policy.

7.   IF THIS COMMITMENT HAS BEEN ISSUED BY AN ISSUING AGENT
     The issuing agent is the Company's agent only for the limited purpose of issuing title insurance commitments and policies. The issuing
     agent is
     not the Company's agent for the purpose of providing closing or settlement services.

8.   PRO-FORMA POLICY
     The Company may provide, at the request of a Proposed Insured, a pro-forma policy illustrating the coverage that the Company
     may provide. A pro-forma policy neither reflects the status of Title at the time that the pro-forma policy is delivered to a
     Proposed Insured, nor is it a commitment to insure.

9.    ARB ITRATION
     The Policy contains an arbitration clause. All arbitrable matters when the Proposed Policy Amount is $2,000,000 or less shall be
     arbitrated at the option of either the Company or the Proposed Insured as the exclusive remedy of the parties. A Proposed Insured may
     review a copy of the arbitration rules at http://www.alta.org/arbitration.




This page is only a part of a 2016 ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance. This Commitment is not valid without the Notice; the
Commitment to Issue Policy; the commitment Conditions; Schedule A; Schedule B, Part I - Requirements; and Schedule B, Part II -
Exceptions.
ORT Form 4690 6/06 Revised 8-1-16                                                                          Page 11
ALTA Commitment for Title Insurance
                                  EXHIBIT D-1

                 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF ACCESS EASEMENT PROPERTY




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                         D-1-1
                                  EXHIBIT D-2

                          DIAGRAM OF ACCESS EASEMENT




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                         D-2-1
                                           EXHIBIT F

                                   MEMORANDUM OF LEASE

                             FORM OF MEMORANDUM OF LEASE

After recording return to:
_________________________

                                                               (Space Above For Recorder’s Use)


                                   MEMORANDUM OF LEASE

      This Memorandum of Lease (“Memorandum”), dated to be effective as of
______________, 20__, is entered into by __________________________________________, a
________________ (“Landlord”), and                           ,a
(“Tenant”).

          1.       Grant of Lease; Term.

                (a)     Landlord leases to Tenant, and Tenant leases from Landlord, the real
property more particularly described on Exhibit “A” attached hereto and incorporated herein
together with all of Landlord’s rights, interests, estates and appurtenances thereto, all
improvements thereon and all other rights, title, interests and estates, if any, of the Landlord in
adjacent streets and roads (hereinafter, the “Premises”) for a term of twenty (20) years, subject to
the provisions of that certain Ground Lease between the parties hereto, dated ________________,
20__ (the “Lease”). The provisions of the Lease are incorporated herein by this reference.

               (b)     The Lease grants Tenant four (4) options up to five years each to renew the
term of the Lease, on the terms set forth therein.

               (c)   The Lease grants Tenant an easement for ingress, egress and other purposes
over certain property owned by Landlord and more particularly described in Exhibit “B”
(“Landlord’s Property”) attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, on the terms set
forth therein.

               (d)    The Lease grants Tenant certain other rights on the terms set forth therein
including the following: a right of first refusal to purchase the Premises.

        2.     Purpose. This Memorandum is prepared for the purpose of recordation only, and
it in no way modifies the provisions of the Lease. In the event of any inconsistency between the
provisions of this Memorandum and the Lease, the provisions of the Lease shall prevail.

        3.       Miscellaneous. The parties have executed this Memorandum of Lease as of the
date first set forth above on the dates and at the places indicated in their acknowledgments below.




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                    F-1
                                       LANDLORD:

                                       _________________, ___,
                                       a _______________________

                                       By:
                                       Name:
                                       Title:

                                       TENANT:

                                       GOOGLE FIBER UTAH, LLC,
                                       a Utah limited liability company

                                       By:
                                       Name:
                                       Title:



                          [Add Notaries and Exhibits]




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                          F-2
                                              EXHIBIT G

           FORM OF SUBORDINATION AND NON-DISTURBANCE AGREEMENT


                 SUBORDINATION AND NON-DISTURBANCE AGREEMENT


Recording requested by and
when recorded, return to:


                                                                  (Space Above For Recorder’s Use)

                             SUBORDINATION, NON-DISTURBANCE
                               AND ATTORNMENT AGREEMENT

       THIS AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is made as of this ___ day of _________ 20__,
by and between ___________________ (“Lender”),                    ,a
(“Tenant”), and ________________________________ (“Landlord” and “Borrower”).

                                              RECITALS

          A.       Landlord is the owner of those certain premises commonly known as
                   ___________________________ (together with the improvements located
                   thereon, the “Property”);
          B.       Concurrently herewith, Landlord and Tenant are entering into that certain Ground
                   Lease (the “Lease”) dated __________________ (the “Lease”), pursuant to which
                   Landlord has agreed to lease to Tenant a portion of the Property, as more
                   particularly described in the Lease;
          C.       Lender has made a mortgage loan to Landlord secured by a mortgage or deed of
                   trust encumbering the Property (the “Mortgage”);
          D.       The Mortgage constitutes a lien upon the Property;
          E.       Tenant desires to be assured of Tenant’s rights under the terms of the Lease and is
                   willing to enter into this Agreement to induce Lender to recognize Tenant’s rights
                   under the Lease; and
          F.       Lender is willing to enter into this Agreement on the terms and conditions
                   hereinafter provided.

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and for
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, Lender, Tenant and Landlord hereby agree as follows:


{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                       G-1
       1.      Provided Lender complies with the provisions of Paragraph 2 hereof, the Lease is
and shall be subject and subordinate in all respects to the Mortgage and to all the terms, conditions
and provisions thereof and to all advances made or to be made thereunder and all amounts secured
thereby and to any amendment, renewal, modification, replacement or extension hereafter made.

       2.      In the event of the foreclosure of the Mortgage or a sale of the Property under a
power of sale in the Mortgage, or the acquisition of a deed to the Property in lieu of foreclosure
by Lender prior to the expiration of the Lease, including any extensions and renewals of the Lease,
provided Tenant is not in default beyond the expiration of any applicable notice or grace period
under any of the terms, covenants and conditions of the Lease on its part to be observed and
performed, Lender does hereby agree as follows:

                   (a)    Tenant’s right of possession and occupancy of the Premises shall not be
                          disturbed by Lender;

                   (b)    The Lease shall continue in full force and effect and Lender shall not
                          interfere with Tenant’s rights and privileges thereunder and will thereby
                          establish direct privity of estate and contract as between Lender and Tenant
                          with the same force and effect and relative priority in time and right as
                          though the Lease were originally made directly from Lender to Tenant (but
                          subject to the provisions of this Agreement);

                   (c)    Lender shall not join Tenant as a party defendant or an adverse party in any
                          action or proceeding that may be instituted or commenced by Lender or its
                          successors or assigns to foreclose or enforce the Mortgage unless such
                          joinder shall be necessary to foreclose the Mortgage; and

                   (d)    provided, however, Lender shall have no further obligations to Tenant under
                          the Lease or otherwise from and after such time as Lender ceases to be the
                          owner of the Property; and provided further, Lender shall not in any way or
                          to any extent be liable to Tenant:

                          (i)     For any past act or omission to act or default on the part of the
                          original or any prior landlord under the Lease and Tenant shall have no right
                          to assert any damages arising therefrom against Lender except for damages,
                          offsets, defenses, claims or counterclaims expressly provided for under the
                          Lease; and provided, however, that such absence of liability or
                          unavailability of claims for damages, offsets, defenses, claims or
                          counterclaims shall not be deemed to permit the repetition or continuation
                          of any such act or omission (or the continuation of a condition from a past
                          act or omission) not otherwise permitted under the Lease;

                          (ii)    For any prepayment of rent or deposit, rental security or any other
                          sums deposited with the original or any prior landlord (unless paid pursuant
                          to the express terms of the Lease), and not delivered to Lender;



{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                       G-2
                          (iii) For any modification or amendment to the Lease hereafter made
                          without Lender’s consent which results in a material reduction of any rent
                          or other charges payable by Tenant under the Lease or which materially
                          increases the obligations of Landlord under the Lease.

        3.      Provided that the conditions and agreements set forth herein, including non-
disturbance, are complied with, in the event of the foreclosure of the Mortgage or a judicial sale
of the Property, or the acquisition of a deed to the Property in lieu of foreclosure by Lender prior
to the expiration date of the Lease, including any extensions and renewals of the Lease, Tenant
hereby covenants and agrees to make full and complete attornment to Lender for the balance of
the term of the Lease, including any extensions and renewals thereof (to the extent elected by
Tenant from time to time), upon the same terms, covenants and conditions as therein provided, so
as to establish direct privity of estate and contract as between Lender and Tenant with the same
force and effect and relative priority in time and right as though the Lease were originally made
directly from Lender to Tenant (but subject to the provisions of this Agreement), and Tenant will
thereafter make all rent payments directly to Lender. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall
be under no obligation to pay rent to Lender until Tenant receives written notice from Lender that
it has succeeded to the interest of Landlord under the Lease. Landlord hereby irrevocably
authorizes and directs Tenant to make all rent payments directly to Lender upon receipt of such
notice from Lender.

        4.      It is understood and agreed that until Lender shall become the owner of the
Property, Lender shall not have any responsibility as owner of the Property or as landlord under
the Lease. Tenant hereby acknowledges and agrees that in the event Lender or its affiliate,
successor, designee or assignee shall become the owner of the Property, that any liability or
obligation of the landlord under the Lease shall be limited to the landlord’s interest in the Property
and no recourse shall be had to any other assets of Lender or its affiliate, successor, designee or
assignee. Subject to the foregoing limitation as to landlord’s interest in the Property, during such
time as Lender or its affiliate, successor, designee or assignee shall be the owner of the Property,
Tenant may exercise any right or remedy provided in the Lease or by law in the event of any failure
to perform any obligation of the landlord under the Lease.

         5.     Tenant agrees to notify Lender by certified mail, return receipt requested, with
postage prepaid, or via overnight courier, of any default on the part of Landlord under the Lease
which would entitle Tenant to cancel or terminate the Lease or to abate or reduce the rent payable
thereunder, and Tenant further agrees that, notwithstanding any provisions of the Lease, no
cancellation or termination of the Lease and no abatement or reduction of the rent payable
thereunder shall be effective unless Lender has received notice of the same and has failed within
thirty (30) days after Lender’s receipt of said notice to remedy the same, to commence to cure the
default which gave rise to the right of cancellation or termination of the Lease or abatement or
reduction of the rent payable thereunder and thereafter diligently prosecutes such cure to
completion; provided that if Lender cannot commence such cure without possession of the
Property, Tenant shall have the right to abate or reduce rent in accordance with the terms of the
Lease, but no cancellation or termination of the Lease shall be effective if Lender promptly




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                      G-3
commences judicial or non-judicial proceedings to obtain possession within such period and
thereafter diligently prosecutes such efforts and cure to completion.

        6.      Except as expressly permitted in the Lease, Tenant will not make any prepayment
of rent for a period in excess of one (1) year.

        7.     The terms, covenants and conditions hereof shall inure to the benefit of and be
binding upon the respective parties hereto, and their respective successors and assigns. For the
purposes hereof, any purchaser at a sale foreclosing the Mortgage or at a sale conducted under a
power of sale in the Mortgage or otherwise acquiring the Property (for the purposes hereof,
acquisition of title to the Property by deed in lieu of mortgage foreclosure, shall be deemed a
purchase at a sale) shall be deemed a successor to Lender.


                                (signatures on following page)




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                  G-4
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be signed,
sealed and delivered in their respective names and behalf, by its officers duly authorized, the date
and year first written above.

                                              LENDER: {                                     }

Address:                                      By:

                                              Title:


                                              Attest:



                                              TENANT:


Address:                                      By:


                                              Attest:



                                              LANDLORD: {                                   }

Address:                                      By:


                                              Title:

                                              Attest:




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                    G-5
                                       LENDER’S NOTARY


STATE OF                        )
                                ) SS
COUNTY OF                       )



         I, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said County, in the State aforesaid, do hereby
certify that                   ,___________ of          ___________, personally known to me to be
the same persons whose name is subscribed to the foregoing instrument as such
____________________ appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that (s)he
signed and delivered the said instrument as their own free and voluntary act, and as the free and
voluntary act of said corporation/association, for the uses and purposes therein set forth.


          Given under my hand and notarial seal this      day of             , 20__.


                                                       Notary Public

                                                       My Commission Expires:________




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     G-6
                                      TENANT’S NOTARY




STATE OF _______________                      )
                                      ) ss.
COUNTY OF ________________            )

On _____________________ before me, ______________________, Notary Public, personally
appeared ________________________________, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory
evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies),
and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of
which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.

I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of _______ that the foregoing
is true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.



SIGNATURE OF NOTARY




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                      G-7
                                     LANDLORD’S NOTARY


STATE OF                        )
                                ) SS
COUNTY OF                       )




         I, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said County, in the State aforesaid, do hereby
certify that                         , ___________ of          ____________________, personally
known to me to be the same person whose name is subscribed to the foregoing instrument as such
____________________ appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that (s)he
signed and delivered the said instrument as their own free and voluntary act, and as the free and
voluntary act of said corporation/association, for the uses and purposes therein set forth.


          Given under my hand and notarial seal this      day of             , 2012.


                                                       Notary Public

                                                       My Commission Expires:________




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                     G-8
                             EXHIBIT H

                          LIST OF REPORTS




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                    H-1
                                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                    Page

ARTICLE 1 Lease of Property ..................................................................................................... 1

ARTICLE 2 Term of the Lease .................................................................................................... 1

ARTICLE 3 Rent .......................................................................................................................... 2

ARTICLE 4 Taxes, Utilities, Platting ........................................................................................... 4

ARTICLE 5 Initial Term .............................................................................................................. 5

ARTICLE 6 Landlord’s Warranties and Covenants ..................................................................... 7

ARTICLE 7 Construction ............................................................................................................. 9

ARTICLE 8 Use, Maintenance and Repairs; Restrictions and Compliance with Laws ............. 11

ARTICLE 9 Insurance and Indemnity ....................................................................................... 12

ARTICLE 10 Casualty Loss ....................................................................................................... 13

ARTICLE 11 Condemnation ...................................................................................................... 14

ARTICLE 12 Assignment and Subletting .................................................................................. 15

ARTICLE 13 Environmental Provisions .................................................................................... 15

ARTICLE 14 Warranty of Peaceful Possession ......................................................................... 18

ARTICLE 15 Default and Remedies .......................................................................................... 18

ARTICLE 16 Access Rights of Tenant to Land ......................................................................... 20

ARTICLE 17 Miscellaneous....................................................................................................... 21




{2108-00224/01175393;2}
Ground Lease                                                        (ii)
