                                                      Riverton City
                                                      Library Policy
                          Effective Date:
                          Reviewed / Revised:

 I.    PURPOSE

       Riverton City’s Donation Library (“Library”) provides a collection space for donated library materials for the
       entirety of Riverton City, which provides access to donated books found in library stations. All citizens of
       Riverton City are allowed to access and donate books found in library stations, regardless of age, race, religion,
       physical ability, educational background, differing political and social opinions and cultural perspectives. The
       Library services provided by the City include maintenance of Library stations, comprehensive oversight of
       donated materials, both print and non-print, that are included in the Library’s collections. Responsibility for use
       of library resources by minors rests with the parents or guardians.

       The Collection Development Policy is intended to provide guidance within budgetary and space limitations for
       the evaluation, selection and purchase of collections that meet the diverse needs of the citizens of Riverton City.
       This policy exists to serve as a guide in the selection of materials and to inform the public about the principles
       upon which selections are made.

 II.   COMMUNITY, NEUTRALITY AND THE LIBRARY

       Riverton City strives to remain neutral in how it receives materials and equipment and does not endorse or
       represent any of the ideas, opinions or points of view held within Library stations. Selectors choose items for
       varying levels of information, entertainment, education, reading levels, age levels, differing social/religious
       customs and languages which are available in all branches of the Library.

III.   GUIDING PRINCIPLES

       Recognizing that the Library receives only a small number of items within the Library stations at any given time,
       the City has established the following policies in order to:

           1. Contribute to fulfilling the mission and role of the Library, as established by the City Council;
           2. Provide principles and standards for assisting the City Manager and staff in designing receiving plans and
              procedures; and
           3. Inform the public of the principles, standards, methods, and procedures that govern the selection of
              items and growth of the collections.

       Riverton City recognizes that library service to a large community with diverse informational, educational and
       recreational needs requires policies which, while providing guidance, permit the City Manager and staff the
       latitude to screen materials and equipment in a context supportive of their professional judgment.
       Consequently, it is the intent of the Riverton City Council that these policies be interpreted as broadly as is
       arguably compatible with the mission and roles of the Library and with the spectrum of community interests and
       needs.

       In the most general terms, Riverton City--through the policies it establishes-- promotes, supports, and respects
       the right of patrons to read and inquire within the informational and cultural context of current society. Riverton
       City encourages patrons to take active advantage of this right by making choices among library items for
       themselves and their children, while respecting the rights of other patrons to exercise that same right to choose.
Library Policy                                                                                                   Page 2



IV.     GENERAL OBJECTIVES

        Materials and equipment are permitted to be received in Library stations if they:

             1. Contribute to fulfilling the mission and roles of the Library, as established by the Riverton City Council;
                and
             2. Meet the criteria for receiving materials as established in these policies.


 V.     RESPONSIBILITY FOR SELECTION

        The City Manager is responsible for administering all material selection and collection activities, and for
        enforcing all selection and collection policies. The City Manager may delegate the authority for supervising and
        undertaking various aspects of material selection and collection to designated staff members, however, the final
        responsibility for these matters remains with the City Manager.

VI.     GENERAL MATERIAL SELECTION CRITERIA

        Selection criteria, statements of the mission and roles of the Library, and selection/collection plans are all
        established with the intent of effectively and responsively meeting the needs of the community for a free and
        publicly available storehouse of informational, educational and recreational materials. The concept of the
        “community” is an inclusive one that encompasses citizens of different ages, races and ethnic backgrounds,
        religions, educational backgrounds and physical abilities. It also encompasses citizens with different political and
        social opinions and perspectives, and varying preferences for content in print and non-print items.

        However, given its limited resources, the Library also acknowledges that while it serves the needs of the
        community as a whole to the best of its ability, it may not be able to fulfill the particular or specialized needs of
        any one segment of the community. Such needs may be more effectively met through referral to, and
        cooperative arrangements with other libraries, both local and national, than through on-site collection.

        Library collections may include, but are not limited to the following formats: print (e.g. books, magazines,
        newspapers), non-print (e.g. audio books, compact discs, video discs), and digital (e.g. databases, eBooks,
        eAudiobooks, eMusic, and internet information, streamable, downloadable, and similar content) and associated
        equipment (e.g. thumb drives). Funding and space considerations make it impossible for all works to be acquired
        or maintained in all the available formats. The Library recognizes that patrons with preferences for alternate
        versions may not be able to access a given work in their preferred format.

VII.    ACCEPTANCE PROCESS

        Acceptance of donated items is made on the basis of interest, popularity, informational content,
        appropriateness and relevance for the citizens of Riverton City of all ages; adult, young adults ages 13 - 17 and
        children from infancy through age 12. The general criteria considered in selecting material incudes:

             1. Material which could be considered pornographic or indecent material as defined in Utah Code 76-10-
                1235 shall not be submitted or accepted at a Library station, regardless of format.
             2. First preference shall be afforded to hosting materials supplied by the Utah Stem Action Center.
             3. If a library station lacks sufficient space to house all donated materials some materials may be kept and
                others rejected, based on the following criteria:
 Library Policy                                                                                                   Page 3




                       a. Popularity and anticipated patron demand
                       b. Significance and value to the collection
                       c. Reviews in library-specific sources as well as award winners, items receiving critical recognition,
                          items reviewed in the general media and highly rated equipment.
                       d. Currency or timeliness of material or equipment
                       e. Local interest
                       f. Qualifications of author, composer, publisher or producer
                       g. Suitability of subject and style for intended audience
                       h. Suitability, durability and quality of format
                       i. Availability of items in other libraries or through interlibrary loan
                       j. Durability and potential longevity

         In selection, consideration is given to the work as a whole. Items do not need to meet all of the above criteria
         but merely need to meet more of the criterial over other materials competing for space.

         Donated materials are not to be excluded solely on any one of the following:

              1.   Race, religion, nationality, sex, political views of the author
              2.   Frankness or coarseness of language
              3.   Controversial nature of an item including cover art
              4.   Endorsement or disapproval of an item by an individual or organization
              5.   The possibility that materials may inadvertently come into the possession of children


VIII.    ADDITIONAL SELECTION CRITERIA

         All items selected under this policy will fall, when considered as a whole, within the broadest boundaries of
         appropriateness for an institution promoting personal exploration, enjoyment of ideas, access to information,
         and free inquiry among a diverse citizenry.

         When considering items in various formats or the introduction of new formats, the City may summarily reject
         the item under consideration if the City lacks reviewing resources or other aids to evaluate an item in a
         particular format, with the understanding that the community has available an established process of review
         involving members of the Riverton City Council.

         The City may summarily reject additional copies of an item placed in a Library station if necessary to
         accommodate other materials eligible to be placed in the same station.

         In order to maintain the community neutrality mentioned earlier in this policy, Riverton City does not rate or
         label any audio visual material based on content. However, the City considers ratings assigned by the Motion
         Picture Association of America (MPAA) and related parental guidance developed by television stations to be
         valuable information to assist viewers in making selections for themselves and their children. Viewer discretion
         advised.

         Priority will be given to resources purchased with funds collected from Riverton City residents. Resources are
         more likely to be included if they are judged to meet all of the above criteria; the City will make resources
Library Policy                                                                                                Page 4



        available as space and other limitations permit. Authors should understand that copies of works given to the
        library are considered donations and are governed by Riverton City policy.
IX.     DONATIONS TO BECOME PROPERTY OF THE PUBLIC

        When items are donated, they become the property of the public and cannot be returned to the donor by
        Riverton City. The City is not obligated to add any donated items to the collection. The acceptance of donations
        are subject to all selection policies of the City and will be evaluated accordingly before being added. For tax
        purposes, the Library will not provide donors with verification of their gifts; or assign a value to the donation.

        The Library does not accept donations of periodical subscriptions from organizations, publishers or individuals.
