                            MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 16, 2025
Subject:         Ordinance #25-22, Amending Riverton City Code Sections 18(65,
                 70,75,80,85,95,100,&215), Commercial Dumpster Enclosures Code,
                 Amendments Proposed by Riverton City


On August 14, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider this item.
Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Commission voted to recommend
approval with the following motion:

I move City Council ADOPT Ordinance 25-22, amending the Riverton City Code Sections 18(65,
70,75,80,85,95,100,&215) for Commercial Dumpster Enclosures as described in Exhibit “A”.


Background

In April of 2025 Riverton City made substantial changes to the City’s Code for Commercial
Architectural Standards. These changes in title 18 impacted eight (8) chapters and multiple
sections of City code. With all the deletions and additions to code, Dumpster Closures were
overlooked and mistakenly removed from the code, without being replaced. This proposed code
amendment seeks to restore standards for commercial trash enclosures.

Code Amendment

Text removed by Ordinance 25-12
(d) Trash Enclosures, Storage Areas, and External Structures. Trash enclosures, storage areas,
and other external structures shall be screened by landscaping, fencing, berms or other devices
integral to overall site and building design. Trash and storage areas shall be comparable to the
proposed or existing building and with surrounding structures. These areas shall be well
maintained and oriented away from public view. The consolidation of trash areas between
businesses and the use of modern disposal and recycling techniques are encouraged. Chain link
fences and fencing with vinyl slats are prohibited.

Proposed Text
(5) Dumpster Enclosures and outdoor storage areas. Any garbage dumpster, garbage can, or
recycling bin shall be enclosed by a solid wall or fence constructed with durable materials that are
designed consistent with the building as approved by the land use authority.        The enclosure
must surround all four sides and be accessed by a gate. The enclosure wall and gate shall be a
minimum of twelve inches (12”) higher than the trash receptacle bin. These areas shall be
Report by: TJP
9/11/2025
oriented away from public view and shall be well maintained. Where a garbage dumpster is
used, the enclosure shall be a solid masonry wall and the gate shall be painted or powder coated
metal. The land use authority may approve an enclosure with a solid wood or solid vinyl fence
and gate for an encloser that is exclusively for residential style garbage cans or recycle bins that
will be rolled to the street for pick up.



 Riverton Code Chapter                                Insertion Location
 18.65 Commercial Downtown (C-D)                      Inserted at: 18.65.070 (5)
 18.70 Commercial Gateway (C-G)                       Inserted at: 18.70.070 (5)
 18.75 Commercial Neighborhood (C-N)                  Inserted at: 18.75.060 (5)
 18.80 Commercial Professional Office (C-PO)          Inserted at: 18.80.070 (5)
 18.85 Commercial Regional (C-R)                      Inserted at 18.85.070 (4)
 18.95 Manufacturing Zones (M-1)                      Inserted at 18.95.040 (9)
 18.100 Planned Commercial Center (PCC)               Inserted at 18.100.070 (4)
 18.215 Site Plan Review and Standard                 Inserted at 18.215.030 (13)




Report by: TJP
9/11/2025
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              7
August 14, 2025


Conditions:

      1.      Approval is for a private lane, with up to five (5) lots accessing the private
              lane.

      2.      Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private
              lanes.

      3.      Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the
              requirements of the Unified Fire Authority and the Riverton City
              Standards and Specifications.

      4.      Private lane shall be at least 25 feet wide in paved surface. “No Parking”
              signs shall be installed as required by Fire Code.

      5.      The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the
              standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and
              Specifications.

      6.      The private lane shall be named and a private street sign shall be
              installed according to Riverton City Standards.

      7.      The private lane entrance shall meet Riverton City Standards for
              driveways, including but not limited to design, width, number of
              driveways and separation distance between driveways.

      8.      The private lane shall be maintained by the homeowners; no City
              maintenance will be performed on the private lane.

      9.      A written agreement for the shared access and shared maintenance of
              the private lane must be submitted with the subdivision Final Plat.

      10.     No construction on the lane may begin before a Subdivision Plan is
              approved by Riverton City.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      D.      “TRASH ENCLOSURES CODE AMENDMENT”, PLZ-25- 5006, RIVERTON
              CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
              CODE, SECTION 18, RELATED TO COMMERCIAL DUMPSTER
              ENCLOSURES.

Mr. Prestwich reported that new Commercial Design Standards were adopted in April 2025,
but language related to commercial dumpster enclosures was inadvertently removed from
the approved Standards. At the Planning Commission’s discretion, the deleted text could
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
August 14, 2025


be restored or the proposed new text could be added. The proposed text addressed a
Frequently asked Questions (“FAQ”) regarding enclosure height and specified that the
enclosure walls must be a minimum of 12 inches higher than the trash receptacle. It also
allows businesses to use garbage cans instead of dumpsters and enclose them with a vinyl
or wood fence instead of a solid masonry wall subject to approval from the Land Use
Authority.

Chair Park stated that although the deletion was unintentional, it provided the opportunity to
improve upon the old language. He asked how a future tenant that needs a larger dumpster
would be made aware of the enclosure requirements and asked if the standard should be
based on the height of the largest standard commercial dumpster. Mr. Prestwich stated that
Staff is often asked about height requirements but the City has not had issues with a too-
large dumpster on a site. He was hesitant to require all enclosures to be 12 inches taller
than the tallest commercial dumpster because that would be too large for some sites.

Commissioner Cluff asked why language encouraging the consolidation of trash areas was
not carried over from the original text. Mr. Prestwich reported that the proposed text did not
prohibit consolidation. The language was removed because it stated that consolidation was
“encouraged,” not required, which is not enforceable. Commissioner Cluff noted that there
was a typographical error in the last sentence: “encloser” should be “enclosure”.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of amendments to the Riverton City Code Title 18 for Commercial
Dumpster Enclosures, as presented. Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

Mr. Prestwich reported that Staff is working to remove duplicate sections of City Code and
consolidate residential zone requirements in tables. They are receiving phone calls from
people using artificial intelligence to find relevant Code sections, and the duplications are
generating errors and causing confusion.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

       A.     “JIM'S FAMILY RESTAURANT”, PLZ-25-8013, AN APPLICATION TO
              AMEND A COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN. APPLICANT - SIFI SIFANTONAKIS.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and reported that Jim’s Family Restaurant was the
first family-style, sit-down restaurant in downtown Riverton. It has been a great addition to
the City. Site photographs and elevations were reviewed. The proposed amendment will
add a roof to the outdoor staging area beside the existing dumpster enclosure so that a
prefabricated cooler can be installed, and a door would then be cut into the outer wall for
access from the kitchen. Three courses of cement block would be added to increase the
height of the enclosure and a slanted roof would be installed.
