                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 7, 2021
Subject:         Ordinance 21-24. Amendments to Section 18.155.080, Fencing, Addressing
                 Standards For Fencing Between Non-Compatible Uses, Amendments Proposed by
                 Riverton City


On June 24, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider this text
amendment. The Commission voted to recommend approval of the proposed amendment.
Minutes from that meeting are attached below. The Planning Commission recommended the
following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 21-24, amending Section 18.155.080, Fencing, regulating
required fencing between non-compatible uses, as shown in Exhibit “A”.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Zoning Text Change proposed by Riverton City. Staff has recently discussed
in a work session with the City Council the current regulations regarding allowed fence types between
noncompatible uses. The current ordinance limits such fencing to a “solid core decorative precast concrete
or integrally colored and textured block, brick, or other masonry fence”. Alternative fencing types, including
fiberglass concrete and hollow or foam core fencing, are only permitted by Conditional Use Permit approval
in certain circumstances. The amendment would make those materials permitted in all cases but fencing
required along major roadways, which would be required to be the solid core concrete or block.

Some of the consideration to this amendment does include the increased costs associated with fencing,
and the impact that can have on affordability of housing. Primarily, where the City already allows the
alternative fencing types by conditional use, and thereby acknowledging that such fencing is appropriate
between noncompatbile uses, this amendment simplifies the approval process, and clarifies the allowed
fencing types in the ordinance. The Planning Commission recommended approval of the amendments, with
any requested changes or additional items from the Council.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
   1. Draft text amendment to Section 18.155.080




Report by: TJP
9/1/2021
Exhibit “A”

18.155.080 Fencing between noncompatible zones/uses.
(1) Noncompatible Zones. A solid core decorative precast concrete or integrally colored
and textured block, brick, or other masonry fence with a minimum height of six feet shall
be required between noncompatible zones. Both sides of the fence shall receive equal
treatment with respect to pattern, color, etc. Permitted masonry product types include
precast concrete, Hollow, foam core, fiberglass/concrete mix, integrally colored and
textured block, brick, or other similaralternative fence types are not permitted, except as
noted below.material. Fencing core may be solid, hollow, or foam or similar material.
(2) Fencing Height. Fencing shall be a minimum of eight feet in height between
commercial/industrial zones and residential zoning of any type, and between multifamily
development and single-family residential zones. Where a project is zoned for
multifamily use but is developed with individual lots and detached single-family units,
fence height may be six feet.


(3) Conditional Use. The planning commission may allow by conditional use permit
alternative fence types and heights based on the following criteria:
(a) Hollow and foam core concrete or fiberglass/concrete mix fencing, or other
alternative fencing in keeping with the purpose of this title, and/or reduced height, may
be allowed where:
(i) Adjacent property is designated in the Riverton City general plan for a land use that is
determined by the commission to be compatible; or
(ii) Anticipated development patterns in the surrounding area are such that required
fencing would create an illogical or detrimental barrier between properties; or
(iii) A parallel fence has been approved by conditional use which will provide additional
safety or screening in keeping with the purpose of this title.
(b) Alternative fencing types may be allowed adjacent to properties with animals/animal
rights and irrigation canals or other waterways provided the commission finds the
proposed fence type is not detrimental to the safety and general welfare of the public.
(c) Fencing adjacent to major roadways, as required herein or by approval, shall not be
altered or amended by conditional use.
(d) A conditional use application shall include proposed fence type and dimensions,
color and pattern, and information demonstrating how the above criteria are met.
(e) The planning commission may allow via conditional use permit existing fencing to
remain in place, or waive the fencing requirement, for all or a portion of required
perimeter fencing on residential projects of two acres or less. A written, notarized
acknowledgement from each adjacent affected property owner stating their consent for
the proposed fencing is required as part of the conditional use permit application.
Fencing adjacent to major roadways, as required herein or by approval, shall not be
altered or amended by conditional use.
Report by: TJP
9/1/2021
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                7
June 24, 2021

Commissioner Breinholt referenced Paragraph 19.55.80 of the ordinance that states that
fencing adjacent to roadways shall not be altered or amended by conditional use. He asked
for clarification regarding requirements against a roadway. Mr. Breinholt stated that fencing
along the roadway must be six-foot solid masonry as required by the City Council.

There were no public comments. Chair Rushton closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Russel moved to APPROVE the zone text change amending Fencing
Section and 18.155.080. Commissioner Lefgren seconded the motion. Vote on
motion: Commissioner Russell-Aye, Commissioner Brown-Aye, Commissioner Cluff-
Aye, Commissioner Lefgren-Aye, Commissioner Breinholt-Aye, Commissioner
Cannon-Aye, Chair Rushton-Aye. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

       a.     SLR-BLOCK SCALE PLAN: THE PARK AND MOUNTAIN VIEW
              RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT TO BE LOCATED NEAR 13100 SOUTH
              EAGLES FLIGHT ROAD.      BENSON WHITNEY, REPRESENTING
              PROPERTY RESERVE, INC. APPLICANT.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the above item involves the SLR-
Block Scale Plan for the park and Mountain View development located near 13100 South
Eagles Flight Road. The SLR Development has its own zoning through the Master
Development Agreement (“MDA”) with the landowner where the City adopted its own
approval process. All other projects in the City go through a one-step review process where
the SLR requires a three-step process narrowing focus with each review. He reported that
they reviewed and approved Step 1 as the Community Scale Plan and will be reviewing the
Block Scale Plan, which encompasses the same area as the community scale plan. The
final review would include more focused detail.

The block scale plan ensures that the Community Scale Plan recommendations are
incorporated and the increasing level of detail is acceptable. Mr. Prestwich reported that the
applicant did an exceptional job of relaying the information and has progressed on some
fronts further than needed. A map rendering was displayed. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that
Phase Two includes large buildings, theaters, and a Costco which has received a permit
and is moving ahead. The Cottages at Western Springs were reviewed. He noted that
permitted uses in the CPA within 250 feet of the north property lines should be limited to
single-family detached residential.

Mr. Prestwich reported that during the Community Scale Plan meeting, the motion included
asking the City Council if the Sunday Drive connection should come through or not as closing
Sunday Drive would take a City action. He confirmed that the City Council supported all
streets being private and treated like an apartment complex that looks like a mix of
residential types and that are individually owned. They asked that the connection be closed
and the applicant adjusted their plans.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
June 24, 2021

The new Civil Plan (“CPA”) was displayed. The layout has been altered to mitigate the deep
lots and driveway areas have been added. The plan includes community open space, a
community center with pool, amenities, pickleball courts, a detention pond, and dog park.
Entry features include access gates that help distinguish the project as private rather than a
continuation of a public street. Mr. Prestwich noted that six-foot masonry fencing has been
proposed as well as along the canal. The existing vinyl fencing along The Cottages of
Western Springs will remain.

Mr. Prestwich introduced New City Engineer, Gordon Miner. While preparing the staff report
for the project, Mr. Miner observed that the gates were missing from the traffic study. The
applicant was contacted and a memo was delivered just prior to the meeting, which had yet
to be reviewed.

Part of the Block Scale Plan included looking ahead as to how it may phase. A Phasing
Plan was displayed. Phases 1 and 1B will come first with Phase 2 including most of the
single-family. Phase 3 will come last. Mr. Prestwich next reviewed public versus private
roads. The applicant included large parcels between the roads that will not be individually
parceled at this time. Utilities will drop a master meter in the right-of-way or easement and
the applicant intends to individually meter the units, particularly the single-family detached
units. He confirmed that everything behind the right-of-way will be privately maintained.

The landscaping was next described. Street trees will be planted along the edge as required
with multiple interior tree plans and individual trees planted in the yards. Two large entry
monuments will be located at the central entry off of Eagles Flight Road. Mr. Prestwich
reported that the building elevations fall within the guidelines of the SLR and SDD zoning.
The clubhouse with typical single-family homes will be located along the north property lines
with cluster homes, front-loaded townhomes, and rear-loaded townhomes being located
throughout the property. Each of the four different product types have a slightly different
design with four different color schemes to add variety. Motion language was discussed.
He reported that the matter was noticed as a decision item and previously noticed for the
public hearing Community Scale Plan. Subsequent plans will be decisions items.

Commissioner Brown expressed concern with insufficient parking and the dead ends along
the west side of the property. Mr. Prestwich stated that the homes include a two-car garage
with different units having a driveway with additional stalls located throughout. The cluster
homes include an extra deep driveway with the E unit having extra parking where the B units
do not. Interior roads will be wider widths that will provide additional parking. He indicated
that the SDD does not provide a ratio.

Commissioner Breinholt reported that the project is more dense than previously thought and
asked if there is a green space requirement per unit. Mr. Prestwich indicated the green
space requirement is over 10% of the total area or if over a certain acreage, at least a 1.0-
acre contiguous plus a percentage. The SLR, SDD, and MDA designated a certain amount
of public green space and then granted the density. He explained it does not specify that
development within the overall project area must provide a certain amount of green space
for that Block Scale Plan or Community Scale Plan. The master developer is still obligated
to give the City a certain number of acreages of parks.
