                          COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT
                                 BETWEEN THE
               UTAH DIVISION OF FORESTRY, FIRE AND STATE LANDS
                                     AND
                                         RIVERTON CITY
This agreement shall become effective on the date of the last authorized signature and will
remain in effect until December 31, 2024. This agreement may only be amended by mutual
written agreement of the parties. In the event of disagreement between this agreement and any
statute or regulation, the statute or regulation shall control. No waiver of any terms of this
agreement will be valid unless in writing in accordance with R652-122-200 (2017).

                   SECTION I: RECITALS AND GLOSSARY OF TERMS

A. Pursuant to Utah Code § 65A-8-203 (2021), this Cooperative Agreement is required for a
   county, municipality, or certain other eligible entity (“Participating Entity”) and the State of
   Utah, Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands (“FFSL”)(collectively “parties”) to
   cooperatively discharge their joint responsibilities for protecting non-federal land from
   wildland fire.

B. Glossary of Terms
      a. Annual Participation Commitment Report – a report prepared by the
          Participating Entity detailing the expenditures and activities conducted in
          compliance with the Participation Commitment during the past fiscal year.
      b. Cooperative Agreement – an agreement between FFSL and an Eligible Entity
          wherein the Eligible Entity agrees to meet a Participation Commitment and provide
          Initial Attack for wildland fire in the entity’s jurisdiction, and FFSL agrees to pay
          for wildland fire suppression costs following a Delegation of Fire Management
          Authority as found in Utah Code § 65A-8-203.1 (2017), as well as all aviation asset
          costs charged to the incident.
      c. Eligible Entity – as defined in Utah Code § 65A-8-203 (2021) means:
                i. a county, a municipality, or a special service district, local district, or
                     service area with wildland fire suppression responsibility as described in
                     Utah Code § 11-7-1(2017); and wildland fire suppression cost
                     responsibility and taxing authority for a specific geographic jurisdiction; or
               ii. upon approval by the FFSL director, a political subdivision established by
                     a county, municipality, special service district, local district, or service area
                     that is responsible for providing wildland fire suppression services; and
                     paying for the cost of wildland fire suppression services
      d. Extended Attack – actions taken in response to wildland fire after Initial Attack.
      e. Initial Attack – actions taken by the first resources to arrive at any wildland fire
          incident. Initial actions may be size-up, patrolling, monitoring, holding action,
          or aggressive suppression action. All wildland fires that are controlled by
          suppression forces undergo initial attack. The kind and number of resources


COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT                                                                       Page 1 of 9
            responding to initial attack varies depending on fire danger, fuel type, values to
            be protected and other factors. Generally, initial attack involves a small number
            of resources and the incident size is small. Regardless of fire type, location, or
            property/resources being threatened, firefighter and public safety is always the
            highest priority. (NWCG Wildland Fire Incident Management Field Guide,
            2013)
       f.   Participation Commitment – prevention, preparedness, and mitigation actions and
            expenditures undertaken by a Participating Entity to reduce the risk of wildland
            fire and meet the intent of Utah Code § 65A-8-202 (2017) and Utah Code § 65A-8-
            202.5(2017).
       g.   Annual Participation Commitment Statement – a statement prepared by FFSL
            and sent to the Participating Entity detailing the Participation Commitment for
            the upcoming fiscal year.
       h.   Participating Entity – an Eligible Entity with a valid Cooperative Agreement.
       i.   Fiscal Year - a consecutive 12-month period for financial reporting, as determined by
            the Participating Entity’s budget cycle.

                  SECTION II: CERTIFICATION OF QUALIFICATIONS

FFSL and the Participating Entity certify that the following qualifications have been met:

A. The Participating Entity is a qualifying eligible entity.

B. The Participating Entity agrees to adopt a Community Wildfire Preparedness Plan (CWPP)
   (or equivalent approved by FFSL).
         a. If the Participating Entity has a CWPP at the time of executing this agreement, the
            Participating Entity agrees to maintain and implement the CWPP for the duration
            of this agreement.
         b. If the Participating Entity does not have a CWPP at the time of executing this
            agreement, the Participating Entity agrees to make a good faith effort to develop
            and adopt a CWPP prior to the expiration of this agreement.

C. The Participating Entity’s fire department or fire service provider as defined in Utah Code §
   65A-8-203 (2021) meets minimum standards for wildland fire training, certification, and
   equipment based on nationally accepted standards as specified by FFSL in R652-122-1400
   (2017).

D. FFSL agrees to provide an Annual Participation Commitment Statement and the
   Participating Entity agrees to review, approve, and return the signed Annual Participation
   Commitment Statement to FFSL before the start of the Participating Entity’s fiscal year.

E. The Participating Entity agrees to implement prevention, preparedness, and mitigation
   actions, which are identified in their CWPP and lead to reduction of wildfire risk, according
   to their Annual Participation Commitment Statement.



COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT                                                                  Page 2 of 9
F. The Participating Entity is not ineligible for a Cooperative Agreement pursuant to R652-122-
   200 (2017), R652-121-400 (2017), or R652-121-600 (2017)

G. If the Participating Entity is a county or has jurisdiction over unincorporated private land,
   the county in question has adopted a wildland fire ordinance based on minimum standards
   established by FFSL in R652-122-1300 (2017).

H. If the Participating Entity is a county or has jurisdiction over unincorporated private land,
   the county in question has a designated fire warden as described in Utah Code §
   65A-8-209.1 (2022) and has entered into a County Warden Agreement (Addendum A).


                     SECTION III: PARTICIPATION COMMITMENT

FFSL and the Participating Entity agree to the following provisions:

A. Participation Commitment
       a. The Participating Entity agrees to fulfill a Participation Commitment as contained
           in R652-122-800 (2017) and R652-122-200(6)(c) (2017).
       b. The Participation Commitment includes prevention, preparedness, and mitigation
           actions identified in an FFSL-approved CWPP or equivalent wildland fire
           preparedness plan.

B. Participation Commitment Expenditures and Activities
       a. The Participation Commitment may be met through either direct expenditures or in-
           kind activities.
                i. Direct expenditures include funds spent by the Participating Entity
                      to implement wildland fire prevention, preparedness or mitigation
                      actions identified in Addendum B or with the approval of the
                      Participating Entity’s respective FFSL Area Manager.
               ii. In-kind activities include wildland fire prevention, preparedness or
                      mitigation efforts identified in Addendum B or with the approval of the
                      Participating Entity’s respective FFSL Area Manager.
                             1. In-kind expenditures are valued at the rate calculated by the
                                “Independent Sector” (https://www.independentsector.org/), the
                                same source used for FFSL’s Fire Department Assistance Grant
                                program.
              iii. Participation Commitment cannot be met through direct payment to the
                      State.
       b. FFSL staff (e.g., County Warden, WUI Coordinator, FMO, or Area Manager) may
           assist the Participating Entity with identifying valid Participation Commitment
           actions and activities based on the Participating Entity’s FFSL-approved CWPP or
           equivalent wildfire preparedness plan.

C. Participation Commitment Accounting and Reporting


COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT                                                                    Page 3 of 9
       a. The Participating Entity is responsible for accounting for its respective
          Participation Commitment activities and expenditures.
               i. The value of Participation Commitment expenditures and activities may,
                    in certain instances, “carry-over” to the next fiscal year with the approval
                    of the respective FFSL Area Manager.
                          1. The value of capital improvement projects--typically, large
                               “preparedness-type” projects--can carry-over for five years, with
                               no single project’s value accounting for more than 25% of the
                               Participating Entity’s total Participation Commitment for any of
                               those years. This is the same 25% annual maximum that applies
                               to all preparedness activities as noted on Addendum B.
                          2. All other non-capital improvement actions (e.g., a large fuels
                               reduction project) can carry over for three years. No maximum
                               value applies to mitigation actions as described in Addendum
                          3. It is the responsibility of the Participating Entity to receive
                               approval from their respective FFSL Area Manager in advance
                               of pursuing a carry-over
                          4. It is the responsibility of the Participating Entity to account for,
                               track and report in their annual Participation Commitment
                               Report the carry-over from year to year.
       b. The Participating Entity agrees to provide an Annual Participation Commitment
          Report detailing the Participation Commitment activities and expenditures to
          their local FFSL Area Office at the conclusion of the Participating Entity’s fiscal
          year (via the County Fire Warden) for annual review and approval by FFSL.
               i. FFSL shall have the right to review and verify records related to the
                    Participation Commitment. FFSL shall also have the right to deny
                    unverifiable or incorrect records.

D. Annual Participation Commitment Statement
      a. In advance of a Participating Entity’s fiscal year, FFSL will send the Participating
         Entity an Annual Participation Commitment Statement.
      b. In order to continue participation for the Participating Entity’s upcoming fiscal year,
         the Participating Entity’s executive officer must approve, sign, and return the
         Annual Participation Commitment Statement to FFSL by the due date contained in
         the Statement. Failure to do so will terminate this agreement at the conclusion of the
         Participating Entity’s current fiscal year.
      c. The Annual Participation Commitment Statement is based on the Participating
         Entity’s fiscal year, and the corresponding Participation Commitment must be met
         throughout the Participating Entity’s next fiscal year.

E. Participation Commitment Calculation
       a. The Participation Commitment is based on two elements, a wildfire risk assessment
           by acres (“Risk Assessment”) conducted by FFSL, and the historic fire cost average
           (“Fire Cost Average”) in each Participating Entity’s jurisdiction.
                i. The Risk Assessment is determined by FFSL’s “Utah Wildfire Risk


COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT                                                                   Page 4 of 9
                   Assessment Portal” (UWRAP), which will be updated as data
                   sources, technology, and funding allow.
              ii. The Fire Cost Average is based on historic suppression costs accrued by a
                   Participating Entity. Only wildland fire suppression costs accrued and paid
                   by the State on behalf of a Participating Entity are counted toward that
                   entity’s historic fire cost average. This includes State-paid costs after a
                   Delegation of Fire Management Authority and Transfer of Fiscal
                   Responsibility has occurred.
                          1. The Fire Cost Average is calculated on a rolling ten-year
                              average, dropping the highest and lowest cost years and
                              adjusting for inflation (using the Consumer Price Index);
                              therefore, each ten-year average will have eight data points.
                          2. The Fire Cost Average will only include State-paid suppression
                              costs for areas for which the Participating Entity has fire
                              suppression responsibility and taxing authority.
       b. FFSL will calculate the Participation Commitment for the Participating Entity
          according to the formula found in R652-122-300 (2017), R652-122-400 (2017)
          and R652-122-500 (2017).

F. Participation Commitment Appeals
       a. Decisions related to the Participation Commitment may be informally appealed to
           the State Forester.

      SECTION IV: INITIAL ATTACK, DELEGATION OF FIRE MANAGEMENT
            AUTHORITY, TRANSFER OF FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY,
                           and EXTENDED ATTACK

A. Initial Attack
       a. The Participating Entity agrees to primary responsibility for Initial Attack (“IA”). IA
            is defined as actions taken by the first resources to arrive at any wildland fire
            incident. Initial actions may be size-up, patrolling, monitoring, holding action, or
            aggressive suppression action. All wildland fires that are controlled by suppression
            forces undergo initial attack. The kind and number of resources responding to initial
            attack varies depending on fire danger, fuel type, values to be protected and other
            factors. Generally, initial attack involves a small number of resources and the incident
            size is small. Regardless of fire type, location, or property/resources being threatened,
            firefighter and public safety is always the highest priority (NWCG Wildland Fire
            Incident Management Field Guide, 2013).
       b. Effective wildland fire IA will be determined by FFSL based on the definition above
            and pursuant to Utah Code § 65A-8-202 (2017), defined as what is reasonable for
            the entity.
       c. The Participating Entity agrees to financial responsibility for all IA costs
            except aviation assets, which are the responsibility of the State.
       d. FFSL agrees to financial responsibility for all costs of aviation assets, including
            both IA and extended incidents.


COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT                                                                     Page 5 of 9
                i.   Aviation assets on initial run cards as established by the State will not:
                           1. be counted towards a Participating Entity’s historic fire cost
                              average for purposes of annually calculating the Participating
                              Entity’s Participation Commitment; and,
                           2. cause the Delegation of Fire Management Authority or
                              Transfer of Fiscal Responsibility.

B. Delegation of Fire Management Authority and Transfer of Fiscal Responsibility
      a. Delegation of Fire Management Authority and Transfer of Fiscal Responsibility
          (“Delegation”) occur simultaneously with one of the following events:
               i. State or federally owned lands are involved in the incident; or,
              ii. firefighting resources are ordered through an Interagency Fire Center
                    (beyond “pre-planned dispatch”); or,
             iii. at the request of the Participating Entity having jurisdiction by the local fire
                    official on scene; or,
             iv.    by decision of the State Forester after consultation with local authorities.
      b. Delegation to FFSL means FFSL or its designee becomes the primary incident
          commander, in a unified command environment with the agency having jurisdiction.

C. Extended Attack
      a. Upon Delegation a timestamp will be recorded via radio with the Interagency
         Fire Center servicing the incident.
      b. Delegation documentation will be signed by all parties on the incident organizer
         and resource needs will be reevaluated in the transition from initial to extended
         attack.
      c. This timestamp will also be reflected on the Crew Time Reports (CTR)/Shift Ticket
         of all resources that are not covered by a no-cost local agreement, such as an
         automatic aid system or other inter-local agreement.
      d. At the time of the Delegation, a new CTR/Shift Ticket will be started for all resources
         to be used in the extended attack effort.
      e. FFSL agrees to be financially responsible for the wildland fire suppression
         costs beyond IA if a Delegation occurs and the Participating Entity meets the
         terms of Code, Rule, and this Agreement.

                 SECTION V: WILDLAND FIRE RESPONSE TRAINING,
                   CERTIFICATION AND EQUIPMENT STANDARDS

A. Wildland Fire Response Training and Certification
      a. FFSL prefers certification by the Utah Fire Certification Council as
          Wildland Firefighter I, as certified by the Utah Fire and Rescue Academy
          (UFRA).
      b. At a minimum, the Participating Entity will ensure that firefighters providing Initial
          Attack to wildland fire within the Participating Entity’s jurisdiction will be trained in
          NWCG S130 Firefighter Training and S190 Introduction to Wildland Fire Behavior.
          FFSL also recommends S215 Wildland Urban Interface Firefighting Operations.


COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT                                                                    Page 6 of 9
               i.   This includes firefighters who are directly involved in the suppression of a
                    wildland fire; firefighters on scene who have supervisory responsibility or
                    decision-making authority over those involved in the suppression of a
                    wildland fire; or individuals who have fire suppression responsibilities
                    within close proximity of the fire perimeter.
               ii. This does not include a person used as a courier, driver of a vehicle not
                    used for fire suppression, or a person used in a non-tactical support or
                    other peripheral function not in close proximity to a wildland fire.
             iii. Upon the Delegation of Fire Management Authority, Firefighters not
                    certified by the Utah Fire Certification Council as Wildland Firefighter I
                    will be released from Initial Attack or reassigned to other firefighting
                    duties.
              iv.   FFSL reserves the right to reevaluate these requirements.
       c. The Participating Entity will ensure that firefighters providing Initial Attack to
          wildland fire within the Participating Entity’s jurisdiction will complete RT130
          Annual Fireline Safety Refresher Training prior to each statutory “closed fire
          season” as found in Utah Code § 65A-8-211(2017).
       d. In order to be eligible for state reimbursement for wildland fire suppression response
          outside of its jurisdiction,
                i. a Participating Entity’s firefighters and fire departments must follow the
                    qualifications outlined in the FFSL Memorandum of Understanding; or
               ii. the County or participating entity fire departments for qualified resources
                    used under this agreement on federal, state or out-of-county (or
                    out-of-entity) fires pursuant to the terms and conditions outlined in the fire
                    department MOU and rate agreement

B. Wildland Fire Response Equipment Standards
      a. The Participating Entity will ensure that engines, water tenders, hand tools, and
          water handling equipment used for response to wildland fire on non-federal land
          within the Participating Entity’s jurisdiction will meet the standard for the type of
          equipment as determined by the National Wildfire Coordinating Group and/or as
          indicated in FFSL’s annual Fire Department Manual.

        SECTION VI: WILDLAND FIRE COST RECOVERY LEGAL ACTIONS

A. Pursuant to Utah Code § 65A-3-4 (2020), the Participating Entity agrees to initiate a civil
   action to recover suppression costs incurred by the Participating Entity and the State of Utah
   on non-federal land within the Participating Entity’s jurisdiction for wildland fire caused
   negligently, recklessly, or intentionally.

B. Counsel for FFSL will provide assistance with these actions.

C. Any costs recovered may reduce the Participating Entity’s Historic Fire Cost Average and
   Participation Commitment.



COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT                                                                   Page 7 of 9
                       SECTION VII: BREACH AND TERMINATION

A. If, at the end of a fiscal year, FFSL determines that the Participating Entity has not
   complied with the terms of this agreement, including but not limited to, failing to comply
   with the Participation Commitment or failing to comply with the terms stated in Utah Code
   § 65A-8-203(4) (2021), the entity will be placed on Probation Status by FFSL and given
   notice of this decision, the reasons for this decision, and actions required to remove
   Probation Status.

B. A decision to place the Participating Entity on Probation Status may be appealed to the
   State Forester. The State Forester may conduct an investigation, hold an informal hearing,
   and/or request further information from the Participating Entity and/or FFSL.

C. During Probation Status, the Participating Entity may continue to receive assistance as
   provided in this Cooperative Agreement, but the Participating Entity must come into
   compliance with the Cooperative Agreement by the end of the fiscal year.

D. If the Participating Entity comes into compliance with the Cooperative Agreement by the
   end of the first Probation Status fiscal year, the Probation Status shall be lifted.
        a. If the reason for the Probation Status is that the Participating Entity has failed to
           fulfill its Participation Commitment during the previous fiscal year, the
           Participating Entity must fulfill the Participation Commitment for the previous
           year, as well as the Participation Commitment for the current fiscal year by the end
           of the fiscal year in order to have its probation status lifted.
                 i. If during the first Probation Status year, the Participating Entity fulfills
                       its Participation Commitment for the previous fiscal year, but not for the
                       first Probation Status year, the Probation Status may be extended for a
                       second fiscal year.
                ii. If during the second Probation Status year, the Participating Entity fails
                       to fulfill the Participation Commitment for both the first and second
                       Probation Status years, the Cooperative Agreement shall be revoked as
                       specified in subsection VII(E) herein below
        b. Participation Commitment expenditures and actions shall be credited towards the
           outstanding obligation before being credited to the current obligation.

E. If the Participating Entity does not come into compliance with the terms of this Cooperative
   Agreement by the end of the first Probation Status fiscal year (or second Probation Status
   fiscal year if the non-compliance is failure to meet the Participation Commitment), this
   Cooperative Agreement shall be revoked pursuant to Utah Code § 65A-8-203 (2021) and the
   entity shall not be eligible for assistance from the Wildland Fire Suppression Fund and shall
   be responsible for wildland fire suppression costs within its jurisdiction pursuant to Utah
   Code § 65A-8-203.2 (2017)

F. If the Participating Entity is on probation or otherwise non-compliant with the terms of this
   or a prior agreement with FFSL, and enters into a new cooperative agreement with FFSL, the


COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT                                                                    Page 8 of 9
   prior obligations and status remain in effect until rectified according to the terms of this
   agreement.

G. Either party may terminate this agreement by providing the other party with written notice 30
   days prior to the termination date.

H. If either party terminates this agreement, the Participating Entity shall only be allowed to
   enter into a new cooperative agreement pursuant to R652-121-600 (2017).


    UTAH DIVISION OF FORESTRY, FIRE, AND STATE LANDS:
                  Digitally signed by R. Joseph
    R. Joseph
    Anderson
                  Anderson
                  Date: 2023.06.14 15:14:21
    ___________________________
                  -06'00'
                                                     6.14.2023
                                                     ___________________________
    Authorized Signature                             Date
    Wasatch Front Area Manager
    ___________________________
    Title


    PARTICIPATING ENTITY:


    ___________________________                      ___________________________
    Authorized Signature                             Date


    ___________________________
    Title




    APPROVED AS TO FORM: Tony Clinger, Assistant Attorney General, March 29, 2023



COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT                                                                     Page 9 of 9
