                            MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
Date:           November 17, 2020
Subject:        Ordinance No. 26-26 - Approving Text Amendments to Sections 17.15.030(2)
                and 18.215.020(10) Allowing Payment in Lieu of Dedication of Water Shares
                for New Development - Riverton City, Applicant - Trace Robinson, Public
                Works Director


On October 8, 2020, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this text
amendment. At that hearing, the Commission voted recommend approval of this text
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission
recommended the following motion;

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 20-26, approving text amendments to Sections
17.15.030(2) and 18.215.020(10) allowing payment in lieu of dedication of water shares for new
development.


Background

This is a public hearing for a Zoning Text Change proposed by Riverton City. For many years the
city has required dedication of secondary water shares from residential and commercial
developments. The proposed change would allow the City to accept a payment of a fee in lieu of
the dedication so that the City could purchase water shares from which ever canal will balance
the city’s secondary water system supply and demand.

Presently, and for many years, the City has accepted water shares from any of the four canals
running through the city. The location of the canals and the city pumps create pressure zones.
Water can be transferred from an upper zone (on the west side of the city) to a lower zone (on
the east side) by gravity, but moving water from east to west is more difficult. This Zone Text
Change would allow the City to accept a fee in lieu of water share dedication, so the city can then
purchase shares to meet specific needs and system design objectives.

A memo from the City’s Water Resource Engineer is included with this report. Staff is
recommending the Planning Commission forward a recommendation to approve the proposed
changes.




Report by: JL
11/10/2020
                                                           PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT


September 17, 2020


Subject: Secondary Water Share Dedication Policy

This letter is a discussion of proposed changes to the Riverton City policy for dedication of secondary
water shares. Since the inception of the Secondary (pressurized irrigation) water project in the late
1900’s, and as a means of gathering water to supply irrigation water to meet the demands of residential
irrigation use, the City has acquired water “shares” through two different vehicles: 1.) from direct
purchase of water shares, and 2.) from a required dedication statute (policy) attached to any new
development proposed within the City. This includes both residential and commercial developments.

The proposal presented in this letter does not recommend changing anything about the way Riverton
City acquires water shares from the direct purchase process. The City would like to continue this
practice of directly purchasing water shares when, and if, feasible from any of the sources, and if
budgets allow. The proposed modifications herein would only affect the method by which the City
acquires secondary water dedication attached to new developments that are proposed in the City. This
modification is outlined as follows:

Current Policy:

Any new project (residential or commercial) proposing to be developed in Riverton City, is required as a
condition of development to dedicate Secondary Water shares to the City based on the size (acreage) of
the project being developed. For residential developments the dedication is at the rate of 3 acre-feet
per developed acre. For a commercial development, the dedication is at the rate of 1 acre-foot per
10,000 square feet of irrigable (green-space) ground. This has often been simplified by stating it as, or
using, the rate of 1 acre-foot per developed acre. These rates and water shares have been allowed to be
delivered from any of the four canals that run through Riverton City, or even from the Jordan River.

Issues/Concerns:

For more than 20 years, the City has received water dedication shares from developments that have
occurred throughout the expanse of the City, without regard to where the development is located in
relationship to the proximity of the canal from which the water is supplied. This has resulted in an over-
abundance of water shares on the lower canals where the infrastructure of the distribution system can
no longer utilize the total amount of water for which the City has shares. While at the same time, in the
western part of the City, where the majority of development is currently occurring, the amount of water
shares from the western canal (specifically the Welby-Jacob Canal) is not sufficient to meet the demands


           12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 254-0704 • rivertoncity.com
of that area. This has created an imbalance of water availability to deliverability which the City would
like to remedy.

In addition to the supply and delivery issues discussed in the previous paragraph, the City is constantly
being approached by would-be developers to circumvent the entire process of acquiring their own
water shares, just to turn them around and dedicate them to the City. They, more often than not,
request to “just pay a fee” for the water shares required of them.

Proposed modifications/changes:

In light of the discussion presented above, it is proposed to re-work and re-word the policy for
dedication of secondary water shares so that the City can designate which canal it would receive waters
from, and/or allow the developer to pay a previously set fee in lieu of the dedication. Currently the City
would like to accept water shares only from the Welby-Jacob canal, but it is conceivable that sometime
in the future this could change, so wording should allow for this option.

Attached to this letter is a draft from the City’s Legal Council of how to modify Ordinance 17.15.030. See
underlined section of paragraph (2) for a detailed presentation of how to address the proposed
modifications and changes. Staff Report Note: Dan's Memo was written while he was still exchanging draft ordinances with
                               the legal department, and he included an early draft in his memo. This early draft has since
                               been replaced with the most current ordinance proposal from the Legal Department. Also note,
In summary:                    Dan's Memo only refers to the residential subdivision requirement (17.15.030)for water shares, it
                               does not make mention of the Commercial site plan dedication requirement (18.215.030) which
                               is now included in the proposed Zone Text Change.
It is recommended to modify/change the existing Ordinance 17 to allow for the City Engineer to accept,
or direct the subdivider or developer to pay a fee to the city in lieu of dedicating shares to meet the
requirements of the Ordinance. Concurrent with the modifications/changes to the ordinance is the
authority of the City Engineer to designate which canal from which water shares would be accepted.

It is recommended that the Planning Commission accept and approve the recommedations presented
above, and forward a recommendation to the City Council to do the same.

Thank you for your time and for consideration of this matter.

Cordially,


DANIEL ‘K’ WOODBURY, PE
Assistant Public Works Director/Water Resources Engineer
Public Works Department | Riverton City
O: 801-208-3169 | C: 801-201-2412 | dwoodbury@rivertonutah.gov
12830 S Redwood Road | Riverton, Utah 84065




             12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 254-0704 • rivertoncity.com
                                PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS



17.15.030 Permanent Improvement Share

The subdivider of any land located in or platted as a subdivision shall, at his own expense, install the
following improvements in compliance with preliminary and/or final plat approval and the specifications
contained in the Riverton City Standard Specifications and Plans Manual:



(2) Secondary Water Shares. The subdivider shall install a secondary water system sufficient to meet
the outside watering needs of each lot within the subdivision. The city shall determine whether the
designed secondary water system is adequate in both capacity and pressure. The secondary water
system shall meet all requirements and specifications as shall be recommended by the Riverton City
Standard Specifications and Plans Manual. In addition, t The developer shall dedicate to the city
secondary water shares in the amount of three acre-feet per developed acre, and from a source which
passes within the same water pressure zone in which the subdivision under development is found. The
City Engineer, at his/her discretion may direct that the subdivider pay a fee to the city in lieu of
dedicated shares. The City Engineer’s decision to accept a fee in lieu of dedicated shares shall be based
upon whether the city has already obtained an adequate supply of water shares for the pressure zone in
which the subdivision is found. Fees in lieu of water shares shall be determined annually by the Riverton
City Council; and shall be based upon a market analysis of the cost to acquire shares which can supply a
given pressure zone. Once determined, said fees shall be included in the Riverton City Fee Schedule. A
map and other data describing the boundaries of each secondary water pressure zone and the capital
facilities located within the same shall be furnished to the developer upon request.



        [Remainder of ordinance 17.15.030 shall not be amended by this Ordinance]
        18.215.030 Site plan development standards.

        [Subsections (1) through (9) and subsection (11) shall not be amended by this Ordinance]



        (10) Secondary Water System and Dedication of Water Shares. The developer(s) shall install or
escrow for a secondary water system as per the secondary water master plan. The secondary water
system shall meet all requirements and specifications as shall be recommended by the Riverton City
Standards and Specifications Manual. In addition, the developer shall dedicate to the city secondary
water shares in the amount of three acre-feet per developed acre or an amount comparable to the
amount of landscaping within the site plan. This is calculated as one acre-foot of water per 10,000
square feet of landscaping. In the case where a site plan has less than 10,000 square feet of landscaping,
the applicant may escrow for one-half acre-foot of water with the city to be purchased at a later date.
Water Shares dedicated to the city shall be provided from a source which passes within the same water
pressure zone in which the site under development is found. The City Engineer, at his/her discretion
may direct that the developer pay a fee to the city in lieu of dedicated shares. The City Engineer’s
decision to accept a fee in lieu of dedicated shares shall be based upon whether the city has already
obtained an adequate supply of water shares for the pressure zone in which the development site is
found. Fees in lieu of water shares shall be determined annually by the Riverton City Council; and shall
be based upon a market analysis of the cost to acquire shares which can supply a given pressure zone.
Once determined, said fees shall be included in the Riverton City Fee Schedule. A map and other data
describing the boundaries of each secondary water pressure zone and the capital facilities located
within the same shall be furnished to the developer upon request.
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 7
October 8, 2020

Commissioner Rushton recommended that the ordinance go back to the drawing board
since it is a redundancy of State law. He saw no need to restate potential issues that the
State is already regulating. Mr. Lethbridge reiterated that the redundancy was intended to
make the requirements clear and ensure compliance. With regard to overnight parking, he
explained that food trucks cannot be in an operating location overnight. The intent would
not be for the food trucks to remain in the same location for days at a time and become
permanent. Commissioner Lefgren supported having some redundant points since allowing
them would enable the City to enforce what is on their books and avoid sending residents to
other departments in the event there are complaints.

A question was raised regarding the number of food trucks that should be allowed in one
area on a public street to address the issue of density. Chair Cannon welcomed food trucks
in the City to improve the quality and variety of food options. Commissioner Lefgren agreed
that there was some redundancy but stated that if there are issues, the residents will call the
City. He suggested that the ordinance address issues that are pertinent to Riverton City
residents and include perhaps redundant issues.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Russell moved to table the matter to a future date and have it brought
back to the Commission after the referenced items have been revised. Commissioner
Rushton seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

4.     ZONE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO
       SECTIONS 17.15.030(2) AND 18.215.020(10) ALLOWING PAYMENT IN LIEU OF
       DEDICATION OF WATER SHARES FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the above matter involves an ordinance amendment regarding
the dedication of water shares. He explained that the City, for residential and commercial
projects, requires water shares to be dedicated as they connect into the pressurized
irrigation system. The intent is to ensure that the City has sufficient supply to meet the
demands of new projects. Information from the Public Works Development was submitted
with the staff report.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the developer will be required to dedicate water shares equal
to three acre-feet per acre of ground. He further explained that if water shares are not part
of or attached to the property at the time of purchase, the developer will need to acquire the
needed shares and dedicate them to the City. Mr. Lethbridge reported that the proposed
amendment will allow the developer to pay a fee to the City in lieu of the dedicated shares.
Commissioner James asked what would happen to the existing water shares should the City
Engineer accept a fee instead. Mr. Lethbridge explained that in that instance the developer
would retain ownership of the shares.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
October 8, 2020

Commissioner Russell asked if there was a tangible dollar amount attached to the three
shares per acre. Mr. Lethbridge stated that according to the ordinance, the City Council will
determine the fee annually based on a market analysis of the cost to acquire shares.
Possible options were discussed. Commissioner Russell expressed support for the
proposed ordinance amendment. Mr. Lethbridge explained that the City Engineer’s decision
to accept a fee will be based on whether the City has already obtained an adequate supply
of water shares for the pressure zone in which the subdivision is found. It was stressed that
it would not be a blanket discretion and specific criteria would have to be met.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Lefgren moved that the Planning Commission recommend approval
of the zone text change to Section 17.15.030(2) and 18.215.020(10) allowing payment
in lieu of dedication of water shares for new development.

Chair Cannon preferred that the motion remain vague in terms of water shares. He would
not want a developer to be restricted if they have shares in one canal and the shares are
needed in a different one. Mr. Lethbridge reiterated that the discretion lies with the City.

Commissioner James seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

Mr. Lethbridge clarified that the fee would be established by the City each year and fluctuate
with market changes.

DECISION ITEMS

There were no decision items.

DISCUSSION ITEMS

There were no discussion items.

MINUTES

       a.     April 9, June 25, July 9, and August 13, 2020.

Commissioner James moved to approve the minutes of April 9, June 25, July 9, and
August 13, 2020. Commissioner Hartley seconded the motion. The motion passed
with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

5.     ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:25 p.m.
