                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council

From:            Planning Department

Date:            February 18, 2020

Subject:         REMANDING OF REZONE APPLICATION TO PLANNING COMMISSION,
                 APPLICATION FOR REZONE OF 12.8 ACRES LOCATED AT 11845 S
                 REDWOOD ROAD FROM RR-22 & CN/CPO TO RM-6-SD, RD
                 DEVELOPMENT, APPLICANT, CONSIDERATION ONLY OF WHETHER TO
                 REMAND BACK TO PLANNING COMMISSION FOR FURTHER
                 CONSIDERATION



The Planning Commission, following a public hearing, voted to recommend DENIAL of this
rezone application. Minutes from that meeting are included below. Following the Commission’s
action, there was neighborhood and property owner input to staff and the Councilmember over
the district that indicated further consideration by the Commission may be warranted. This
action is limited to a decision to remand the application back to the Commission for review. No
discussion, public input, or action on the rezone itself will be taken. If the Council votes to
remand the item back to the Commission, it will be noticed for a public hearing with that body. If
the Council choose not to remand this item, it will be noticed for a future public hearing with the
City Council.

Potential Motion:

I move the City Council remand application PLZ-19-4015, proposed rezoning of properties located near
11845 South Redwood Road as shown on the attached Proposed Zoning Map from RR-22, C-N and C-
PO to RM-6 SD, to the Planning Commission for further consideration in a public hearing.

Attachments:
    1. Map of rezone
    2. Minutes from Planning Commission hearing.




Report by: TJP
2/12/2020
                                     RD Development Rezone




                      Redwood Road
                                          Subject Parcel
                                         11845 South Redwood




    11800 South

                                                               Stone Ridge Ln



                                     11910 South



N                 Area Map
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2020                                                                         6



The applicant addressed the Commission but was off mic and inaudible.

Mr. Prestwich responded further to one of Commissioner Cannon’s questions and stated
that after referring to the zoning map, there was no other elderly housing overlay on any
other residential properties that could be identified. They are all commercial and located
along major roads.

There were no further public comments. Chair Russell closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Rushton moved to recommend APPROVAL of Application PLZ-19-
4012 rezoning properties located near 4245 West 12600 South as shown on the
attached Proposed Zoning Map from RM-14-SD with an Elderly Housing Overlay
(EHOV) to RM-14-SD. Commissioner James seconded the motion. The motion
passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.     REZONE, RD DEVELOPMENT IS REQUESTING A REZONE OF ABOUT 12.05
       ACRES LOCATED AT APPROXIMATELY 11845 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD. THE
       CURRENT ZONING IS C-PO, C-N, AND RR-22, THE REQUESTED ZONING IS
       RM-6 WITH A SPECIFIC DESIGNATION.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the request is from the RD
Development Group located on Redwood Road and is a uniquely shaped property consisting
of RR-22, R-3, C-PO, and C-N zoning. The staff report specified the size as 12.05 acres,
but after an ALTA Survey, the acreage was determined to be 12.8 acres. Even with this
change in acreage, the request follows the boundary lines and is consistent with the zoning
requirements. The property was identified on a map displayed.

The applicant is requesting RM-6-SD zoning on the property. A section of the property is
zoned Estate Density Residential, which allows one-half acre or larger lots. The property
also consists of a business park or professional office that corresponds with a C-G, C-N, or
C-PO commercial zoning. There is a section of R-4 zoning, with 10,000 square-foot lots and
another section listed as R-3 zoning.

The staff report was amended to specify that if recommended for approval, there would also
need to be a recommendation for a change to the General Plan. Last summer and fall,
Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge did a lot of work on the project, but the
City Council requested it be put on hold and readdressed in the spring. The previous
General Plan was being presented and nothing had been formally adopted.

Because this is SD and not a blanket zone, the developer utilized the SD to include different
types of uses or densities inside the overall project. In one section are the attached single-
family homes, or townhomes. Another section contains 4,500 square-foot detached homes
including private lots and driveways, private garages, and they do not share a common wall.
Along the north edge, 6,000 square-foot detached homes are proposed. On the south end
that borders the residential properties of R-4 and R-3, there are 8,000 square-foot detached
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2020                                                                         7


homes. The open and green spaces not included in the development were identified as a
wetlands area. It was noted that a wetlands study had not been submitted. The previous
owners of the property may have had a study done but it was not formally submitted with
the application.

The applicant shows three different layouts where land use is similar, but the road
connections and layouts vary. Mr. Prestwich stated that nothing was going to be approved
tonight other than the land use and zoning. Road use, connections, and impacts would be
considered in a rezone for land use in an area. Mr. Prestwich encouraged the Planning
Commission to voice their road layout preferences to the City Council. In writing the
Planning Commission or City Council could instruct staff to place special limitations on the
road. If no preferences are voiced, and the zoning layout will be approved and the applicant
would be able to choose the road layouts as long as they comply with the ordinance. If this
occurs, the issue of making a turn around on the dead-end road would need to be resolved
in the site plan.

SD zoning will help some units that are below the RM-6 zoning requirements. If the RM-6
were recommended without SD, it would be limited to 5,000 square-foot lots. Staff would
define the measurements of each lot if requested. Staff would work with the applicant before
the matter goes before City Council if requested by the Planning Commission. Different
layouts were addressed with regard to potential area impacts. Feedback from the
community was received after providing notice.

Commissioner Rushton asked if there was a time frame on the finalization of the General
Plan. Mr. Prestwich replied that it could take until February or March of this.

Commissioner James inquired as to why two lots were marked with “X’s”. Commissioner
Hansen explained that one of the lots is near the wetlands and has no access unless there
is a private lane. Mr. Prestwich stated that if there are wetlands designated in the area, the
lot will be inaccessible unless there is a private lane. An agreement would need to be
reached. If zoned RR-22 and there is no access, a Conditional Use Permit would need to
be obtained.

Commissioner James asked about the unit count on the property if it were zoned R-6
assuming that the wetland issue is resolved. Mr. Prestwich stated that there would be a
reduction in the number of lots.

Commissioner Cannon wondered why none of the proposals utilized the access road built
30 to 40 years ago on the east side of the canal and why it is not proposed to have a bridge
over the canal. Mr. Prestwich replied that these are the applicant’s proposals and he was
not aware whether staff had made a recommendation in that regard. An unidentified
individual stated that when he approached the City after putting a bid on a home near the
wetlands in the area, he learned he would need to go through the Army Corps of Engineers
for approval. As a result, it would not be cost-effective to build a bridge over the wetlands.
Chair Russell commented that there are a number of stubs along the canal and other areas
that were created years ago and abandoned.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2020                                                                     8



Chair Russell opened the public hearing.

The following individuals spoke but were off mic and inaudible:

Amy Wright

Shelly Ceverts

Bill Allinson

Terry Malloy

Rick Gardner

Charlie Anderson

Angela Long

Peter Smith

Michael Jorgenson

Jennifer Smith

Michael Stephenson

Brad Wright

Susan Allinson

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Dave Morton identified himself as the applicant and was present to answer questions. His
comments were off mic and inaudible.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the applicant owns the property or has an option to
purchase it. Mr. Morton responded that he does not own the property. Mr. Prestwich
explained that the City has a two-part ownership affidavit where the owner signs the
application stating they own the property and authorize an agent; however, a Purchase
Contract is considered a valid form of ownership or interest in the property to pursue an
application. The owner was not in attendance to provide clarity.

Commissioner James remarked that it would be premature for the Commission to approve
the zoning before the City Council makes a final decision on how the corridor on Redwood
Road should be completed. Density was an issue because it dictates traffic flow among
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2020                                                                       9


other things. There was also concern that there was not enough information about the
wetlands.

Commissioner James moved to recommend DENIAL of Application PLZ-19-4015
rezoning properties located near 11845 South Redwood Road as shown on the
attached Proposed Zoning Map and keeping the properties zoned RR-22, C-N, and
C-PO.

Mr. Morton addressed the Commission but was off mic and inaudible.

Commissioner Rushton remarked that the owner has a right to develop the parcel, and the
neighbors recognize his right. There is an opportunity to develop the property with specific
protection of the wetlands.

The motion died for lack of a second.

Commissioner Rushton moved to recommend DENIAL of Application PLZ-19-4015
rezoning properties located near 11845 South Redwood Road as shown on the
attached Proposed Zoning Map and keeping the properties zoned RR-22, C-N and
C-PO based on conflict with the existing Master Plan and the character of the
neighborhood. Commissioner James seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chair
Russell-Aye, Commissioner James-Aye, Commissioner Hartley-Aye, Commissioner
Rushton-Aye, Commissioner Hansen-Aye, Commissioner Cannon-Nay. The motion
passed 5-to-1.

Chair Russell explained that the motion will be forwarded to City Council and renoticed.

1.    ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
      AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 18.175, WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS,
      OF THE RIVERTON CITY CODE.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that Mr. Lethbridge would be presenting
the staff report at the next Planning Commission Meeting.

Commissioner Hansen moved that the Planning Commission continue the public
hearing to the February 13, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting. The motion passed
with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

Commissioner Cannon thanked the citizens in attendance. He made a few corrections and
stated that the Planning Commission had had more than one meeting for one hour for this
item of business. Secondly, the property is medium density rather than high density.
