                              MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:           Planning Department
Date:           February 6, 2023
Subject:        Ordinance 24-01 - Adopting Section 17.35, Review and Approval Process in
                Compliance with Utah State Code, regulating processing, review, and approval of
                subdivisions in compliance with adopted Utah State Code, Ordinance proposed
                by Riverton City.


On January 11, 2024, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this
proposed Text Amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning
Commission recommended the following motion:

     I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 24-01, adopting Section 17.35, Review and
     Approval Process in Compliance with Utah State Code, regulating processing, review, and
     approval of subdivisions as required by adopted Utah State Code, as described herein.

Background

Utah State Code Section 10-9a-604 established a mandated processing, review, and approval
procedure for residential development consisting of single-family, two-family, or townhome units in
Utah cities. In compliance with that Section, this amendment adopts in Riverton City ordinance that
procedure. Essentially, it sets a maximum number of “review cycles”, where City staff review and
request changes on a set of plans submitted for a residential development, and also sets maximum
review times. Riverton City already has review timelines, so this change will not significantly affect
our review process.

The State Code also prohibits the City Council from serving as the “land use authority” relative to
residential subdivisions. This means the City Council cannot be the approving body for such
applications, which has been part of Riverton City’s ordinance for many years. However, the State
Code also now states that while a preliminary subdivision approval my be heard by the Planning
Commission, all final applications related to that subdivision may not, and must be approved at a
staff level. The Utah State Code section is included below for reference.

The proposed amendment codifies the Utah State Code requirements into Riverton City Ordinance.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Proposed Section 6.05.425
        2. Utah State Code Section 10-9a-604


Report by: JL
1/31/2024
Exhibit “A”


                                                Title 17
                                             SUBDIVISIONS



         Chapters:
            17.05    General Provisions
            17.10    Subdivision Processing and Approval Procedures
            17.15    General Subdivision Improvement Requirements
            17.20    Subdivision Standards
            17.25    Street Lighting
            17.35    Review and Approval Process in Compliance with Utah State Code




                                                    2
Exhibit “A”


                                           Title 17.35
                  Review and Approval Process in Compliance with Utah State Code

Sections:
17.35.010.     Applicability
17.35.020.     Defined Terms.
17.35.030.     Designation of a Single Administrative Land Use Authority for Review and Approval of
               Preliminary and Final Subdivision Applications.
17.35.040.     Process for a Pre-Application meeting prior to Application Submission
17.35.050.     Establishment of Process and application for Preliminary Subdivision Application.
17.35.060.     Establishment of Process and application for Final Subdivision Application.

17.35.010. Applicability.
    1. This section applies to land use decisions arising from subdivision applications for single-family
       dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes.
    2. This section does not apply to land use regulations adopted, approved, or agreed upon by the City
       Council exercising land use authority in the review of land use applications for zoning or other land
       use regulation approvals.
    3. The review cycle restrictions and requirements of this section do not apply to the review of single-
       family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes subdivision applications affecting property
       within identified geological hazard areas under the City Code.
    4. Riverton City does not permit concurrent processing of the final subdivision plat with the
       premilitary subdivision plat application.
    5. This section supersedes any conflicting language in the Riverton City Code.

17.35.020. Defined Terms.
    1. "Administrative land use authority" means an individual, board, or commission, appointed or
       employed by Riverton City, including the staff or the planning commission.
    2. "Administrative land use authority" does not include the municipal City Council or a member of the
       City Council.
    3. “Complete application” will include all required materials listed in the application and associated
       checklist(s).
    4. "Review cycle" means the occurrence of:
       (i)     the applicant's submittal of a complete subdivision land use application;
       (ii)    the City’s review of that subdivision land use application;
       (iii)   the City’s response to that subdivision land use application, in accordance with this section;
       and
       (iv)    the applicant's reply to the City’s response that addresses each of Riverton City's required
       modifications or requests for additional information.
    5. "Subdivision improvement plans" means the civil engineering plans associated with required
       infrastructure and municipally controlled utilities required for a subdivision.
    6. "Subdivision ordinance review" means review by the City to verify that a subdivision land use
       application meets the criteria of the City’s subdivision ordinances.

                                                      3
Exhibit “A”


   7. "Subdivision plan review" means a review of the applicant's subdivision improvement plans and
      other aspects of the subdivision land use application to verify that the application complies with
      municipal ordinances and applicable standards and specifications.

17.35.030. Designation of a Single Administrative Land Use Authority for Review and Approval of
Preliminary and Final Subdivision Applications.
    1. Preliminary Subdivision Applications.
            a) Riverton City hereby designates the Planning Commission to review and approve
               preliminary subdivision applications.
    2. Final Subdivision Applications.
            b) Riverton City hereby designates the Development Services Director or designee to review
               and approve final subdivision applications.

17.35.040. Process for a Pre-Application meeting prior to Application Submission.
    1. If an applicant requests a pre-application meeting, Riverton City shall, within 15 business days after
       the request, schedule the meeting to review the concept plan and give initial feedback.
    2. At the pre-application meeting, the staff shall provide or have available on the city website the
       following:
           a. copies of applicable land use regulations;
           b. a complete list of standards required for the project;
           c. preliminary and final application checklists; and
           d. feedback on the concept plan.

17.35.050. Establishment of Process and application for Preliminary Subdivision Application.
    1. Preliminary Subdivision Application.
       The application for preliminary subdivision applications and materials can be found on the City’s
       website and at the City Office.

   2. Review Process and Timing
      A. City staff shall complete a review of the applicant's preliminary subdivision land use application
      to determine if it is a complete application.

       B. No later than 15 business days after the day on which an applicant submits a complete
       application, City staff shall complete a review of the applicant's preliminary subdivision land use
       application for a residential subdivision for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or
       townhomes, including subdivision improvement plans.

       C. In reviewing the preliminary subdivision land use application, the City may require:
               (i)    additional information relating to an applicant's plans to ensure compliance with
                      municipal ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction of
                      public improvements; and
               (ii)   modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances, applicable standards or
                      specifications, or do not contain complete information.

                                                      4
Exhibit “A”


               (iii)   The City’s request for additional information or modifications to plans under
                       Subsection (D)(a)(i) or (ii) shall be specific and include citations to all City
                       ordinances, standards, or specifications that require the modifications to plans, and
                       shall be logged in an index of requested modifications or additions.

       D. City staff shall review the applicant's resubmittal to determine if it is a complete resubmittal,
       including all additional information requested.

       E. City Staff shall determine when the application and plans are ready for presentation to the
       administrative land use authority, and notice the application for a public hearing.

       F. The administrative land use authority will:
              (a)    hold a public hearing to review the preliminary application; and
              (b)    receive public comment; and
              (c)    hold no more than one public hearing.


17.35.060. Establishment of Process and application for Final Subdivision Application.
1. Final Subdivision Application.
        The application for final subdivision applications and materials can be found on the City’s website
        and at the City Office.
2. City staff shall complete a review of the applicant's preliminary subdivision land use application to
determine if it is a complete application.

3. Review Process and Timing
    A. No later than 20 business days after the day on which an applicant submits a complete application,
       City staff shall complete a review of the applicant's final subdivision land use application for a
       residential subdivision for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes including
       all subdivision plan reviews.
    B. In reviewing the final subdivision land use application, the City may require:
       (i)      additional information relating to an applicant's plans to ensure compliance with municipal
       ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction of public improvements; and
       (ii)     modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances, applicable standards or
       specifications, or do not contain complete information.
    A. The City’s request for additional information or modifications to plans under Subsection (2)(B)(i) or
       (ii) shall be specific and include citations to all City ordinances, standards, or specifications that
       require the modifications to plans, and shall be logged in an index of requested modifications or
       additions.

17.35.070. Process for Review of Preliminary and Final applications.
    A. A review cycle begins when an application or resubmittal is determined to be complete.
    B. (i) Subject to Subsection (B)(ii), unless the change or correction is necessitated by the applicant's
       adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts the infrastructure needed for the


                                                       5
Exhibit “A”


      specific development, a change or correction not addressed or referenced in Riverton City's plan
      review is waived as required by Utah State Code.
      (ii) A modification or correction necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce state or
      federal law may not be waived.
   C. If an applicant makes a material change to a plan set, the City has the discretion to restart the review
      process at the first review of the final application, but only with respect to the portion of the plan set
      that the material change substantively effects.
   D. If an applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days after Riverton City requires a
      modification or correction, Riverton City shall have an additional 20 business days to respond to the
      plans.
   E. After the applicant has responded to the final review cycle, and the applicant has complied with
      each modification requested in Riverton City's previous review cycle, Riverton City may not require
      additional revisions if the applicant has not materially changed the plan, other than changes that
      were in response to requested modifications or corrections.
   F. (i)      In addition to revised plans, an applicant shall provide a written explanation in response to
      the City' review comments, identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions and reasons for
      declining to make revisions, if any.
      (ii)     The applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive and specific, including citations
               to applicable standards and ordinances for the design and an index of requested revisions or
               additions for each required correction.
      (iii)    If an applicant fails to address a review comment in the response, the review cycle is not
               complete and the subsequent review cycle by the City may not begin until all comments are
               addressed.
   G. If, on the fourth or final review, the City fails to respond within 20 business days, the City shall,
      upon request of the property owner, and within 10 business days after the day on which the request
      is received:
               (i) for a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans, assemble an appeal panel
               in accordance with Utah Code Subsection 10-9a-508(5)(d) et seq. to review and approve or
               deny the final revised set of plans. Unless otherwise agreed by the applicant and Riverton
               City, the panel shall consist of the following three experts:
                    a. one licensed engineer, designated by the City;
                    b. one licensed engineer, designated by the land use applicant; and
                    c. one licensed engineer, agreed upon and designated by the two designated engineers
                        as appointed in subsection (i) a and b.
      (ii)     A member of the panel assembled by the City under Subsection (i) may not have an interest
               in the application that is the subject of the appeal.
      (iii)    The land use applicant shall pay:
                        a. 50% of the cost of the panel; and
                        b. the City’s published appeal fee.; or
                        c. For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise the applicant,
                        in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of the right to appeal the
                        determination to a designated appeal authority.


                                                      6
UTAH STATE CODE SECTION 10-9a-604
Utah Code


      (c) all approvals described in Subsection (1)(b) are entered in writing on the plat by the
          designated officers; and
      (d) if the person submitting the plat intends the plat to be or if the plat is part of a community
          association subject to Title 57, Chapter 8a, Community Association Act, the plat includes
          language conveying to the association, as that term is defined in Section 57-8a-102, all
          common areas, as that term is defined in Section 57-8a-102.
    (2) A subdivision plat recorded without the signatures required under this section is void.
    (3) A transfer of land pursuant to a void plat is voidable by the land use authority.

    Amended by Chapter 47, 2021 General Session

    10-9a-604.1 Process for subdivision review and approval.
    (1)
      (a) As used in this section, an "administrative land use authority" means an individual, board, or
           commission, appointed or employed by a municipality, including municipal staff or a municipal
           planning commission.
      (b) "Administrative land use authority" does not include a municipal legislative body or a member
           of a municipal legislative body.
    (2)
      (a) This section applies to land use decisions arising from subdivision applications for single-
           family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes.
      (b) This section does not apply to land use regulations adopted, approved, or agreed upon by a
           legislative body exercising land use authority in the review of land use applications for zoning
           or other land use regulation approvals.
    (3) A municipal ordinance governing the subdivision of land shall:
      (a) comply with this section, and establish a standard method and form of application for
           preliminary subdivision applications and final subdivision applications; and
      (b)
        (i) designate a single administrative land use authority for the review of preliminary applications
              to subdivide land; or
        (ii) if the municipality has adopted an ordinance that establishes a separate procedure for
              the review and approval of subdivisions under Section 10-9a-605, the municipality may
              designate a different and separate administrative land use authority for the approval of
              subdivisions under Section 10-9a-605.
    (4)
      (a) If an applicant requests a pre-application meeting, the municipality shall, within 15 business
           days after the request, schedule the meeting to review the concept plan and give initial
           feedback.
      (b) At the pre-application meeting, the municipal staff shall provide or have available on the
           municipal website the following:
        (i) copies of applicable land use regulations;
        (ii) a complete list of standards required for the project;
        (iii) preliminary and final application checklists; and
        (iv) feedback on the concept plan.
    (5) A preliminary subdivision application shall comply with all applicable municipal ordinances and
        requirements of this section.
    (6) An administrative land use authority may complete a preliminary subdivision application review
        in a public meeting or at a municipal staff level.


                                                    Page 5
Utah Code


    (7) With respect to a preliminary application to subdivide land, an administrative land use authority
        may:
      (a) receive public comment; and
      (b) hold no more than one public hearing.
    (8) If a preliminary subdivision application complies with the applicable municipal ordinances
        and the requirements of this section, the administrative land use authority shall approve the
        preliminary subdivision application.
    (9) A municipality shall review and approve or deny a final subdivision plat application in
        accordance with the provisions of this section and municipal ordinances, which:
      (a) may permit concurrent processing of the final subdivision plat application with the preliminary
           subdivision plat application; and
      (b) may not require planning commission or city council approval.
    (10) If a final subdivision application complies with the requirements of this section, the applicable
        municipal ordinances, and the preliminary subdivision approval granted under Subsection (9)
        (a), a municipality shall approve the final subdivision application.

    Enacted by Chapter 501, 2023 General Session

    10-9a-604.2 Review of subdivision land use applications and subdivision improvement
    plans.
    (1) As used in this section:
      (a) "Review cycle" means the occurrence of:
        (i) the applicant's submittal of a complete subdivision land use application;
        (ii) the municipality's review of that subdivision land use application;
        (iii) the municipality's response to that subdivision land use application, in accordance with this
              section; and
        (iv) the applicant's reply to the municipality's response that addresses each of the municipality's
              required modifications or requests for additional information.
      (b) "Subdivision improvement plans" means the civil engineering plans associated with required
           infrastructure and municipally controlled utilities required for a subdivision.
      (c) "Subdivision ordinance review" means review by a municipality to verify that a subdivision
           land use application meets the criteria of the municipality's subdivision ordinances.
      (d) "Subdivision plan review" means a review of the applicant's subdivision improvement plans
           and other aspects of the subdivision land use application to verify that the application
           complies with municipal ordinances and applicable standards and specifications.
    (2) The review cycle restrictions and requirements of this section do not apply to the review of
        subdivision applications affecting property within identified geological hazard areas.
    (3)
      (a) No later than 15 business days after the day on which an applicant submits a complete
           preliminary subdivision land use application for a residential subdivision for single-family
           dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes, the municipality shall complete the initial
           review of the application, including subdivision improvement plans.
      (b) A municipality shall maintain and publish a list of the items comprising the complete
           preliminary subdivision land use application, including:
        (i) the application;
        (ii) the owner's affidavit;
        (iii) an electronic copy of all plans in PDF format;
        (iv) the preliminary subdivision plat drawings; and


                                                   Page 6
Utah Code


        (v) a breakdown of fees due upon approval of the application.
    (4)
      (a) A municipality shall publish a list of the items that comprise a complete final subdivision land
           use application.
      (b) No later than 20 business days after the day on which an applicant submits a plat, the
           municipality shall complete a review of the applicant's final subdivision land use application
           for a residential subdivision for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes,
           including all subdivision plan reviews.
    (5)
      (a) In reviewing a subdivision land use application, a municipality may require:
        (i) additional information relating to an applicant's plans to ensure compliance with municipal
              ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction of public
              improvements; and
        (ii) modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances, applicable standards or
              specifications, or do not contain complete information.
      (b) A municipality's request for additional information or modifications to plans under Subsection
           (5)(a)(i) or (ii) shall be specific and include citations to ordinances, standards, or specifications
           that require the modifications to plans, and shall be logged in an index of requested
           modifications or additions.
      (c) A municipality may not require more than four review cycles.
      (d)
        (i) Subject to Subsection (5)(d)(ii), unless the change or correction is necessitated by the
              applicant's adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts the
              infrastructure needed for the specific development, a change or correction not addressed or
              referenced in a municipality's plan review is waived.
        (ii) A modification or correction necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce state
              or federal law may not be waived.
        (iii) If an applicant makes a material change to a plan set, the municipality has the discretion to
              restart the review process at the first review of the final application, but only with respect to
              the portion of the plan set that the material change substantively effects.
      (e) If an applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days after the municipality
           requires a modification or correction, the municipality shall have an additional 20 business
           days to respond to the plans.
    (6) After the applicant has responded to the final review cycle, and the applicant has complied with
        each modification requested in the municipality's previous review cycle, the municipality may
        not require additional revisions if the applicant has not materially changed the plan, other than
        changes that were in response to requested modifications or corrections.
    (7)
      (a) In addition to revised plans, an applicant shall provide a written explanation in response to
           the municipality's review comments, identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions and
           reasons for declining to make revisions, if any.
      (b) The applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive and specific, including citations
           to applicable standards and ordinances for the design and an index of requested revisions or
           additions for each required correction.
      (c) If an applicant fails to address a review comment in the response, the review cycle is not
           complete and the subsequent review cycle may not begin until all comments are addressed.
    (8)



                                                     Page 7
Utah Code


      (a) If, on the fourth or final review, a municipality fails to respond within 20 business days, the
           municipality shall, upon request of the property owner, and within 10 business days after the
           day on which the request is received:
        (i) for a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans, assemble an appeal panel in
             accordance with Subsection 10-9a-508(5)(d) to review and approve or deny the final revised
             set of plans; or
        (ii) for a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise the applicant, in
             writing, of the deficiency in the application and of the right to appeal the determination to a
             designated appeal authority.

    Enacted by Chapter 501, 2023 General Session

    10-9a-604.5 Subdivision plat recording or development activity before required landscaping
    or infrastructure is completed -- Improvement completion assurance -- Improvement
    warranty.
    (1) As used in this section, "public landscaping improvement" means landscaping that an applicant
        is required to install to comply with published installation and inspection specifications for public
        improvements that:
      (a) will be dedicated to and maintained by the municipality; or
      (b) are associated with and proximate to trail improvements that connect to planned or existing
           public infrastructure.
    (2) A land use authority shall establish objective inspection standards for acceptance of a public
        landscaping improvement or infrastructure improvement that the land use authority requires.
    (3)
      (a) Before an applicant conducts any development activity or records a plat, the applicant shall:
        (i) complete any required public landscaping improvements or infrastructure improvements; or
        (ii) post an improvement completion assurance for any required public landscaping
              improvements or infrastructure improvements.
      (b) If an applicant elects to post an improvement completion assurance, the applicant shall
           provide completion assurance for:
        (i) completion of 100% of the required public landscaping improvements or infrastructure
              improvements; or
        (ii) if the municipality has inspected and accepted a portion of the public landscaping
              improvements or infrastructure improvements, 100% of the incomplete or unaccepted public
              landscaping improvements or infrastructure improvements.
      (c) A municipality shall:
        (i) establish a minimum of two acceptable forms of completion assurance;
        (ii) if an applicant elects to post an improvement completion assurance, allow the applicant to
              post an assurance that meets the conditions of this title, and any local ordinances;
        (iii) establish a system for the partial release of an improvement completion assurance as
              portions of required public landscaping improvements or infrastructure improvements are
              completed and accepted in accordance with local ordinance; and
        (iv) issue or deny a building permit in accordance with Section 10-9a-802 based on the
              installation of public landscaping improvements or infrastructure improvements.
      (d) A municipality may not require an applicant to post an improvement completion assurance for:
        (i) public landscaping improvements or an infrastructure improvement that the municipality has
              previously inspected and accepted;



                                                    Page 8
