                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council

From:            Planning Department

Date:            May 5, 2020

Subject:         DISCUSSION, REZONE, RD DEVELOPMENT LOCATED AT 11845 SOUTH
                 REDWOOD RD, PROPOSED REZONE TO RM-6-SD, RESIDENTIAL MULTI-
                 FAMILY WITH A MAXIMUM OF 6 UNITS PER ACRE, WITH SPECIFIC
                 DEVELOPMENT DESIGNATIONS LIMITING DENSITY AND CONFIGURATION.


This item is for discussion only, and is scheduled for a public hearing May 19th.

Background

The Planning Commission heard this item on April 23, 2020. At that meeting, the
Commission voted to recommend approval of this rezone, with modifications to the
proposed lot sizes and density. The Commission recommended the following, with the
“area” references to the attached map below:
    Area 1 have a minimum lot size of 10,000 sf
    Area 2 have a minimum lot size of 8,000 sf
    Area 3 as described, but with no direct connection to Redwood Road
    The main road through the development connect as a through street.

Original Staff Report
This is a public hearing for a Rezone of several properties totaling about 12.8 acres located on
the east side of Redwood Road at about 11845 South. The subject properties are a currently a
mix of zoning with single family residential (RR-22 and R-3), Professional Office and
Neighborhood Commercial Zones. The current General Plan is a mix of Medium Density
Residential and Professional Office.

Nearby zoning includes R-4 and R-3 to the south and R-3 across the canal to the east. To the
north is RR-22 zoning with larger lots. Across Redwood Road to the west is RM-8 south of
11800 South and RR-22 north of 11800 South.

The applicant is requesting RM-6 SD, which is residential multifamily, 6 units per acre. The
“SD” stands for Specific Development and is a means to apply special rules and regulations for


Report by: TJP
4/28/2020
a development. In this application the SD would assign areas within the overall development
specific lot sizes and unit types.

Following discussion with the Commission at a work session, the applicant has further modified
the proposed density and layout for the project. The proposed SD designations are based on this
layout. Essentially, the project area would be divided into three sections. Area 1 would consist
of the southern portion of the properties. There would be a maximum of 14 lots in that area, with
a minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet. Other than lot size, all setbacks and other standards for
this area would be consistent with the R-4 zone. Area 2, which is the northern portion, would be
developed consistent with the detached single-family requirements of the RM-6 zone. This
includes a minimum lot size of 5,000 square feet. The lots adjacent to the north and east
boundaries of this area will be a minimum of 6,000 square feet. There will be a maximum of 29
lots in that area. Area 3 is the smaller parcel just to the south of the existing commercial site on
Redwood Road. This property may be developed consistent with the attached unit standards in
the RM-6 zone, with the exception that up to 5 units may be attached. A maximum of 10 units will
be allowed in this area. This is reflected on the included diagram.

The RM-6 zone includes a requirement that perimeter fencing comply with Section 18.155.080 of
the Riverton City Code where development is adjacent to a single-family zone. That section
requires a six foot solid masonry fence, and so for this project area the fencing would be six foot
solid masonry for the entire project boundary. The Council may specify other fencing requirements
in the SD designations, if desired.

The RM-6 zone also includes a requirement for open space. Section 18.45.180(11) specifies that
where individual lots are utilized in a project over 10 acres, which is the case in this proposed
project, a minimum of one (1) acre of open space. The ordinance requires that open space to be
privately maintained, unless otherwise approved. The conceptual plans show open space that
complies with the minimum area requirement, and specific treatment and configuration would be
approved as part of a site plan application.

The question of road connections has been a significant issue with this application. Laurel Chase
Drive currently stubs to the southern boundary of this project area, and the northwest corner of
the project area is the intersection of Redwood Road and 11800 South. Much has been discussed
on the potential connection of Laurel Chase Drive to that signalized intersection, and the possible
impacts of that connection on the surrounding road network. The applicant has presented several
conceptual layouts showing alternative road connections, which are included in this packet.
Traffic impacts are typically reviewed with a rezone, and are an important consideration in this
case. But the road connection is not specific to this application or to a particular density. The
City will need to address the road connection irrespective of the eventual density of this site. Final
technical design of a roadway system is typically made with the site plan/subdivision design for a
project. The Council may consider adding language such as the following, or other similar
direction.

         Laurel Chase Drive shall be connected to 11800 South as a full public right-of-way.
         Laurel Chase Drive shall terminate in a cul-de-sac in Area 1 on the south side of the open
          space.
         Laurel Chase Drive shall not connect to the intersection of 11800 South and Redwood
          Road.




Report by: TJP
4/28/2020
Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1.     Public Notice including Area Map.
          2.     Application.
          3.     Applicant’s conceptual site plan.
          4.     Draft Specific Development designations




Report by: TJP
4/28/2020
Meadows at 118 Specific Development Designations
   1. A maximum of 53 units will be allowed.
   2. Area 1, as designated below, shall be limited to 14 lots, with a minimum lot size
      of 8,000 square feet.
   3. With the exception of lot size, lots in Area 1 shall comply with setback and lot
      requirements of the R-4 Zone.
   4. Area 2 shall have a maximum of 29 lots, and shall be developed in accordance
      with Section 18.45.180, Individual Dwelling Lot Standards, of the RM-6 Zone. No
      attached units shall be allowed.
   5. Lots in Area 2 that are adjacent to the north and/or east boundaries of that area
      shall be a minimum of 6,000 square feet.
   6. Area 3 may include a maximum of 10 units consistent with the requirements of
      the RM-6 zone, with the exception that up to five (5) units may attached.
Alternative Conceptual Designs
    Submitted by Applicant
Public Comment
From:            Amy Wright
To:              Planning
Subject:         Public Hearing for 11845 S Redwood Road
Date:            Thursday, April 2, 2020 5:54:32 PM


Hello;

I want to pre-emphasize this by saying SHAME ON YOU! Shame on you for scheduling a public
meeting during this Covid-19 crisis. Knowing full aware that the Public and those directly affected by
this hearing, are not allowed to attend by State & Federal Directive during this pandemic. There is
not a rezoning hearing, that cannot wait until this crisis is over and yet, you are attempting to hold a
PUBLIC hearing in what can only appear to be an attempt to not be held responsible by your
constituents for your vote.

Let me assure you that your constituents are aware, will be watching and will be voting next term.
Your character, trustworthiness and loyalty to your community will come to light during this time.

That being said, we have already had a hearing on this parcel of land only a few months ago. With
the same Developer, seeking the same rezoning and as we have not been informed otherwise, likely
the same Specific Designation request. That hearing vote held a majority vote of denied (with only
one hold out wanting to see it approved - Mr. Cannon) as it is not in the best interest by fact of the
City & the surrounding neighborhoods.

This additional hearing, being held at this time, cannot be seen as anything other than an attempt by
the Developer (RD Development) to utilize a time of crisis to their benefit. We as the public will not
have an opportunity to ask questions, share residence insights nor be awarded our correct rights as
residence to voice our opinions. You cannot reflect or understand flex in temperance or feeling
through a simple email.

I am and have been against the rezoning of this plot of land for any type of Multi-family housing. As
you know this is currently zoned Single Family on 1/3 acre lots and commercial along Redwood Road.
I believe it should be preserved as such due to its location and infrastructure issues of traffic, added
strain of water and sewage systems, schools for 100+ new students and not to mention the
abundance of wildlife, that will be evicted from their natural habitat of the watershed. Especially
now, considering the extreme pressure 11800 south will be under once the Olympia Hills
development is underway. In which we all know has been approved at this point and all agree, we as
a community and city’s infrastructure is not prepared for.

I further believe, and at the very least that this hearing should be postponed until the public has a
clear understanding on what Specific Designation is being requested so we have ample time to study
it’s long term effects on the area. As well as allow your constituents their right to speak their piece
once this pandemic is over and the State Directive has been lifted.

I urge you to follow your heart and listen to the requests from hearing after hearing, of NO MULTI
HOUSING on this lot from your constituents, neighbors, family and friends.
Respectfully,

Amy Holmes
1641 W. 11745 S.
Riverton, UT 84065
801-652-3110



Disclaimer: This message is proprietary to Old Republic Home Protection and is intended solely for the use of the individual
to whom it is addressed. It may contain privileged or confidential information and should not be circulated or used for any
purpose other than for what it is intended. If you have received this message in error, please notify the originator immediately.
If you are not the intended recipient, you are notified that you are strictly prohibited from using, copying, altering, or
disclosing the contents of this message. Old Republic Home Protection accepts no responsibility for loss or damage arising
from the use of the information transmitted by this email including damage from virus.
From:            Britta C
To:              Planning
Subject:         Public Hearing Notes
Date:            Saturday, April 4, 2020 8:00:53 AM


We own the property at 11991 S 1420 W

We would support single family dwellings, but not apartment buildings.

Britta
From:             Larry Molloy
To:               Planning
Subject:          12.05 Acre Parcel at 11845 South Redwood Road:
Date:             Wednesday, April 1, 2020 3:02:06 PM


First off, I am Lawrence Molloy and will have property directly connected to the north east corner of this
development. I have attended all of the previous planning meetings and a few town halls that were held.

I am as concerned as I am frustrated. In the last planning commission meeting, it was stated by members
of the commission that this was voted on and denied, AND it was not in city code to revisit this. After 40
plus years working for the federal government I am very well versed in policy and guidance.

During a previous town hall in an overcrowded room, one of the city council members was present. Most
of us could tell from the beginning where she was coming from. I am now aware that we the people have
been pushed aside and out voted and out spoken by one.

Frustration aside, I totally agree that the property should be developed, and feel the owner has a right to
sell, but I feel that the higher density properties will devalue from some of the more urban properties in
the immediate area. I feel this is the Alamo's last stand.

Since there will be no meeting for public comment, I am concerned we will not be heard. But in the same I
feel this has been beaten to death with words and all for not.

Larry Molloy
1577 W 11745 S
Riverton
From:            Mark Cram
To:              Planning
Subject:         FW: RD Development Rezone
Date:            Friday, April 3, 2020 3:15:53 PM




To the Planning Commission,
Please allow me to provide the following considerations regarding the RD Development Rezone of
12.05 acres located at approximately 11845 S Redwood Road. I respectfully submit the following:
    1. Several attempts have been made to rezone this property. Of all previous submissions I
       consider this one to be the most reasonable.
    2. Based on the proposed zoning it is feasible to assume that there will eventually be 72 dwelling
       units in this development.
    3. With 72 dwelling units, assuming 2 cars per unit and 8 trips (4 round trips in and out) per car
       per day that is equal to 1,152 trips per day
    4. With that many trips per day I would submit that all traffic in and out of the development be
       from Redwood Road, and not have access to Laurel Chase Drive.
    5. With the new development that fronts Laurel Chase Drive, and uses it and Melba Lane for
       access to Redwood Road, this has the potential to significantly increase and/or create a
       hazardous situation in those developments. Please consider denying any access to Laurel
       Chase Drive from this development.
    6. There has been precedent established for other developments with similar zoning that have
       access only to Redwood Road or other state-owned roads and not through adjacent
       neighborhoods; i.e. Madison Cove, the development at 12600 S 1300 W, and the
       development at approximately 12400 S and Redwood Road to name just a few.
If you have any questions regarding these requests or statements, please feel free to contact me at
the cell phone listed below. Thank you in advance for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Mark Cram, MBA
Vice President
Emily Grene Corp
801.702.7596
mcram@emily-grene.com
www.emilygrene.com
From:        Ray Mueller
To:          Planning
Subject:     RE: RD Development Rezone @ 11845
Date:        Thursday, April 2, 2020 10:18:43 AM



Dear Riverton City:

In regards to the proposed rezoning of 11845 South Redwood Road. Traffic
getting on and off of Redwood Rd. is very heavy now; like a wall of traffic at
times. The increase would bring the congestion much higher. The actual
number of family dwellings is not disclosed leaving us at the mercy of the
developer (10 units? 100 units? 1000 units? High rise apts? We don't
know). Neither do we also don't know what income level the dwellings
would be intended for.   We are opposed to rezoning this parcel.

Sincerely,
Raymond & Patricia Mueller
11947 S 1650 W
Riverton, UT
84065
From:            Trent Thompson
To:              Planning
Subject:         Response: RD Development 11845 S Redwood Road
Date:            Monday, April 6, 2020 9:51:24 AM


To the Commission Members,

I live on Laurel Chase Drive in a newly built home on a 1/3 acre lot.  

I work in the construction industry and I understand that this land will be developed
regardless, it's just a matter of how it's developed.

The biggest concern that my neighbors and I have talked about is not wanting the road to
connect to our neighborhood. I would prefer that the lots not be approved for RM-6, but if
they are contained in their own little neighborhood I would much rather prefer that.  

I strongly oppose; however, RM-6 and connecting it to our neighborhood. I do not want
additional cars having direct access to my street, I do not want people parking in our street,
because a lot of the times with RM-6 there isn't sufficient parking, and I do not want the
higher crime rates that tend to accompany these smaller homes.

I went to the last meeting where it was very clear the RM-6 and the road connecting to Laurel
Chase was not approved by the people living in our area and no one has changed their mind.
Some of the older generation that lives on Melba might not know how to reach out via email
so I don't like the fact this is going on during the coronavirus.

If the road has to connect we need to connect it to Stoneridge Lane where the road was
originally stubbed to go through. The street is larger and is set up to handle more traffic than
Laurel Chase is. Even if that is more expensive it is the right road to connect it to.

The developer had presented three options last time we held this meeting.  
1) The entire subdivision deemed RM-6 connected to laurel chase. (This option was an
absolute no for everyone)
2) Then you had the one where the RM-6 was self contained. (Don't love the RM-6, but at
least it is it's own neighborhood)
3) Then there was one where the end of Laurel Chase was made into a circle where he had 6 or
so good size lots that became a part of our neighborhood, but didn't connect to 11800 S and
the RM-6 Lots. (By Far the Best Option of the 3 for everyone)

Is there not a way to vote on this item to say the developer can do it, but it has to be one of
these 3 ways and then everyone votes? No one wants to give him free reign to build it out
how he wants and connect roads wherever he wants.

Please let me know if you have any questions on this item for me.

Thanks,

Trent Thompson
11938 S Laurel Chase Drive Riverton, Utah 84065
--
Trent Thompson
Mountain West interiors
O:801-545-4360 | C:801-628-2153
mountainwestinteriors.com
                                                      David and Carol Sieverts
                                                      1646 West 11745 South
                                                      Riverton, Utah 84085

Riverton City Planning Commission
12830 South Redwood Road
Riverton, Utah 84065

Dear Riverton City Planning Commission,

         We are involved with two issues that the Planning Commission intends to address at the
       th
April 9 meeting. We realize that the current situation is challenging for everyone. But not
having a public hearing concerns us. It would have been better to hold meetings when residents
could attend.
         This property which will be impacted has been in my family since the early 1900s and I
personally have lived on the property for 72 years. I know you must realize how difficult it is to
see our way of life change. We also realize that change is inevitable. Still we would like that
change to be well thought out and carefully considered to accommodate the best interests of all
involved.
         With regards to the RD Development Rezone our concern is that with the addition of
multiple housing units such a rezone would open things up for later high density development. I
know you are tired of hearing about the traffic issues this would create, still it is something that
must be considered. Our feelings as a neighborhood have not changed since the last public
meeting. We hope you will consider our issues.
         Our greater concern is with the 1546 west 11745 south parcel. We don’t have issue with
the addition of 3 homes. The entire northern boarder of this parcel is our property. The
developers have put survey stakes 5 to 6 feet into our property. We would like the current fence
line to be considered the property line. That fence line has been in place for over 100 years.
Several years ago, we had an issue and at that time the county came out and surveyed concluding
that the property line at the fence line was accurate.
         If this agreement is not met, then it will require that the builders move the existing
irrigation ditch and replace two head gates. We use this ditch to water our 9 acre parcel. It will
also require a retaining wall to keep their current ground level from sluffing away. Because there
are animals on our side of the proposed property development it will require at least a six foot
concrete wall for the safety of the animals as well as the prospective homeowners. We will need
the same type of wall that is required along the canal. The property to the north of our pasture is
currently being developed. South Jordan City has required such a wall on that boarder.
         I know that as a Planning Commission you will want to serve the existing residents as
well as the developers. We appreciate your kind consideration.

Respectfully, Dave and Carol Sieverts.
From:              Bill Bedford
To:                Planning
Subject:           Rezone request
Date:              Thursday, April 9, 2020 10:50:37 AM
Attachments:       official_email_signature-01.png


Hello,
We are property owners in Riverton off Redwood Rd. We have received notice of the request
to re zone 12.05 acres nearby and the meeting to discuss the idea / request.
I am just writing in to express the opinion that the request be denied in order to preserve the
space as it is currently.
We will use the link sent to watch the meeting process.
Thank you,
Bill and Cindy Bedford


Bill Bedford
AP Chemistry / Cross Country and Track and Field
Email: bill.bedford@wasatchacademy.org Office: 435-462-1431 Fax: 435-579-4311
www.wasatchacademy.org
120 South 100 West Mt. Pleasant, UT 84647
From:           Charlie Anderson
To:             Planning
Subject:        11800 South Rezone – Road Alignment – Stone Ridge Lane
Date:           Thursday, April 9, 2020 5:34:23 AM



I noticed an omission for the road alignment options, which is Stone Ridge Lane shall be
connected to 11800 South as a full public right-of-way.

Objectively, Stone Ridge Lane a is the most appropriate connection to 11800 South for the
following reasons:

       Stone Ridge Lane is wider than Laurel Chase Drive
       Stone Ridge Lane serves residential and commercial properties
       The trajectory of Stone Ridge Lane connection avoids the drainage area on the
       applicant’s property which evidences prior intent to connect Stone Ridge Lane
       The cost of connecting Stone Ridge Lane is paid by developer not the City.


If the Commission feels that the increased traffic flow to Stone Ridge Lane would negatively
impact those residents, to be consistent, they would need to feel the same about Laurel Chase
Drive and, ultimately, 12040 South.

It is unfair to place the entire burden of a new thoroughfare, along Laurel Chase Drive, to
12040 South since it is, currently, the only access between 13th West and Redwood Road from
114th South to 126th South.

Charlie Anderson
From:           Curtiss Smith
To:             Planning
Subject:        Public Comment- RD Development 11845 S. Redwood Rd.
Date:           Wednesday, April 8, 2020 5:12:11 PM


To the Commission Members,

I recently built a home on Laurel Chase Drive, just south of the proposed
development. One of the reasons we moved to this neighborhood is because we
previously lived on a busy street. I have four young kids and my biggest concern with
the proposed development is the road alignment. I, and many of my neighbors, do not
want the road to connect from 118th South to Laurel Chase Drive, because of the
increased traffic that would come with it. I have a firm opinion on this issue. To me,
this would be a major disappointment after just recently building a home in a quiet
neighborhood. The alternatives that I would choose would be (in order of preference):
1. Don't connect these roads to anywhere except Redwood Road, as is shown in the
developers conceptual road design Alt-A
2. Connect the road to Stone Ridge Lane, which is stubbed to connect. Stone Ridge
is a wider road than Laurel Chase and is a straight shot to access 1300 West. This
seems more practical and a better fit.
3. Connect only the cul de sac in Area 1 to Laurel Chase, as is shown in the
developers conceptual road design Alt-B

In addition to my concern about the road alignment, I would also like to see the
housing in Area 1 to be changed to R-3, like all the surrounding homes in that area.
The homes surrounding this area are all 1/3 acre lot or larger, so it makes sense to
me to keep that consistent.

Thanks for your service and for your time.

Curtiss Smith
From:          Cathy Stallworth
To:            Planning
Subject:       Rezoning of 12.5 acers at approximately 11845 S Redwood RD
Date:          Thursday, April 9, 2020 4:37:59 PM



We request that this hearing be rescheduled to a time when all concerned can attend the
hearing in person to make comments.
Thank You

Dave and Cathy Stallworth
1592 W 11745 S
Riverton, UT 84065
From:           david demille
To:             Planning
Subject:        RD Redevelopment Zone - 11845 South Redwood
Date:           Sunday, April 5, 2020 9:50:39 AM



I have been provided a notice requesting comment on the proposed redevelopment at 11845
South Redwood because I live in the neighborhood adjacent and to the south of the proposed
development.

The letter indicates a request for multi-family zone RM-6 designation which allows both single
family and multi family housing. This proposal seems much more reasonable than previous
proposals for this site.

My primary concern is the narrowness of the street providing access to 1300 West (Laurel
Chase) and the fact that the only access point to 1300 W is at 12040 South. In fact, this is the
only access from the neighborhoods along Redwood Road to 1300 W between 12600 South
and 11400 South.

I do not live on either Laurel Chase or 12040 South, but we have lived in this area a long time
and my kids have all attended (and some still attend) Rosamond Elementary. Because of the
schools in the area, we are aware that a large portion of residents living east of 1300 West
drive through 12040 South to access Redwood road to get to schools and for other purposes.
This traffic funnels through Melba Ln and Meadow Green Dr.

My concern is that the volume of traffic already using these streets is higher than these
streets were designed to handle and adding additional housing that would require access on
these same streets could be too much. I'm not against the proposed rezoning, but feel it
would be much more reasonable to require a bridge over the canal for the development to
connect to Stone Ridge Ln. This would relieve the additional traffic burden on existing streets
so that even with a new development connected to Laurel Chase, there would be one
additional access point to 1300 West.

Thank you all so much for your service to our city! It can't be easy making these decisions, and
as a 13 year resident of Riverton, I appreciate all you have done to make our city a great place
to live.

Sincerely,

David DeMille
From:                jamie sieverts
To:                  Planning
Subject:             Public Hearing (11800 S Redwood Rd)
Date:                Thursday, April 9, 2020 12:03:32 AM




We appreciate that you are willing to let us comment via email, however, if there is any way you would consider
postponing the meeting until after the COVID 19 pandemic due to the strong community concern that has been
shown for this property development in the past, that would be appreciated even more.
If that is not a possibility our ideal situation would be for the zoning to be left at quarter acre lots. We feel that this
will keep the community feel that Riverton is known for. We understand that development will need to happen but
want it to be as low density as possible.
If we are voting on just the proposed plans then we strongly vote for the option that 11800 South does NOT tie into
Laurel Chase Drive. But we hope that this plan can be amended with fewer homes to be put in.
With higher density homes come more vandalism and theft. We have personally already felt the burden of this since
the high density developments in the area have come in.
We hope that you would be understanding to those of us that have made Riverton our home instead of those who
are selling and leaving the area or that of the developers that don’t have a vested interest in this community.
We appreciate you taking the time to read our comments and concerns.
Thank you
Luke and Jamie Sieverts
Home owners on 11745 South
From:           Jordan Olson
To:             Planning
Subject:        Ed development rezone
Date:           Thursday, April 9, 2020 10:29:30 AM


I am emailing concerning the rezone for the property 11845 s redwood road. My name is
Jordan Argyle and I live on 11745 s trifecta court right behind the property. The plan they
have presented does not go with the surroundings. They keep bringing back almost the same
plan and we have all voiced our concerns many times. I believe they need to stick with the
original master plan or they need to bring us a plan different from the high density housing
that they keep bringing back time after time. I also feel it is unfair to make decisions like this
without us able to come to the meeting and voice our concerns. My vote on this is no as it has
been the last times they have brought it. I think they need to make a plan desirable to the rest
of the community or keep it zoned for what it already is zoned for. Thank you, Jordan Argyle.
--
Jordan Olson-Argyle
From:              Katy Anderson
To:                Planning
Subject:           118th South ReZone
Date:              Wednesday, April 8, 2020 7:17:51 AM




The Salt Lake County Assessor’s property database shows that Area 1 (Wetlands) is comprised of two tax
parcels which are 4.61 acres (3.53 acres + 1.08 acres).



In a subdivision, roads utilize approximately 15% of the developable area or 0.69 acres of Area 1. It is also
important to note that 1.50 acres of this area has been deemed undevelopable.



The following table calculates the lot yield when applying the R-3 and R-4 zones.




                                  Zone           R-3          R-4

                       Total Acres                   4.61         4.61
                   Road Dedication                 (0.69)       (0.69)
              Undevelopable Area                   (1.50)       (1.50)
           Acres remaining for lots                  2.42         2.42
                     Lots per Acre                   3.00         4.00
                    Number of Lots                   7.26         9.68



I recognize that the configuration of Area 1 makes it difficult to create 14,000 sq. ft. or 10,000 sq. ft. lots.
The current General Plan shows R-4 for Area 1, therefore, it is a reasonable compromise to allow 8 units in
Area 1, because if the developer were held to the lot regulations (e.g. lot size, width requirements, setbacks,
etc.) of the R-3 or R-4 zone, the lot yield would be significantly less than calculated above.



Katy Anderson
From:           Kristi Kemp
To:             Planning
Subject:        RDDevelopment Rezone
Date:           Tuesday, April 7, 2020 1:58:26 PM


I live at 11966 South 1650 West, close to the property on Redwood road that is being
reviewed for rezoning.
I live in a circle where the only exit is Melba Lane. The section of Melba Lane by my house it
too narrow for even sidewalks. It is not capable of handling heavy traffic. My concern is that
if this property is re-zoned for high-density housing, people will use Melba Lane to get to
Redwood Road. Please consider the amount of traffic a high-density project could add to
Melba Lane. Thank you. Kristi Kemp
From:           Shelly Sieverts
To:             Planning
Subject:        Rezoning 11800 S
Date:           Wednesday, April 8, 2020 6:57:07 PM



Dear Planning Committee:

If possible can we please reschedule this public meeting regarding the rezoning of this
property. Our neighborhood has been very involved in every meeting with very high
attendance. It would be nice to feel like we have been heard and this done with everyone
involved. There are many who are older in our neighborhood that have attended meetings but
are not going to feel comfortable sending emails.

We would love to know what are options are. What are you as the zoning committee going to
allow.

We live to the north of the mentioned property in a very rural setting. My kids are 5th
generation on the same property. We still have farm animals as does many on our road. We
have great concerns about quantity of people coming and the impact it will have on our way
of life. Fences don't keep kids out especially when animals are involved. The more the housing
the more problems for us. We support the developing of the land and respect that the owners
have the right to develop this land. We don't want to rezone it and want to leave it as is.
However with this huge push for high density we have great concern that we will end up with
condos and town homes. Majority of lots on the south side are 1/4-1/3 plus acre lots with
property going even higher on the north. We want to keep that type of neighborhood.

With that in mind these are our comments regarding what has been proposed:

1- Roads should NOT connect to Laurel Chase. It isn't fair to those neighbors there. The roads
are already over used!!!!
2- We would like to see the density no more than quarter acre lots. We want to keep it as
much as possible like the property south of it.

We appreciate what you are doing and plead with you to remember we aren't typical anymore
we are still rural and the impact of higher density is really going to effect us and our property.

Thank you and good luck!!

Matt and Shelly Sieverts
From:           Noah Dixon
To:             Planning
Subject:        Rezone RD Development
Date:           Wednesday, April 8, 2020 8:21:42 AM


Hello,

After going over the packet My family is opposed to the Rezone. We already have
development to the North of us, and possibly will have more to the South( Aspen Grove
proposal). We feel as if this proposal to rezone is adding too many more bodies to an already
congested area. I grew up in a big city, so when I moved here it was the space that allured me.
Thank you for all your hard work. God bless America.
From:              TERRY Molloy
To:                Tim Prestwich
Subject:           Rezoning e 11800 s Redwood rd
Date:              Thursday, April 9, 2020 11:19:22 AM




I sent a email yesterday but I would like to add to my concerns.
We attended a meeting where the planning committee would not let us speak but they let the developer bring this up
after being voted down in the meeting before. One of the council members said this couldn’t be addressed again for
a year. But you let them bring up again before the year. The problem is they keep coming back with almost the same
plan when the people of the Comunity have voiced their concern. Why can’t they leave the master plan and not try
to bring in high density housing?
Also imo why does this have
To be addressed when people can’t better in person to be heard? Sorry I won’t go on but I just am a concerned
neighbor. Thank you for your time Terry Molloy

Sent from my iPhone
Terry Molloy
From:        TERRY Molloy
To:          Planning
Subject:     RD Development Rezone
Date:        Wednesday, April 8, 2020 4:13:28 PM



Hello I am writing to voice my concern over the zone changing to the property
located
approx 11845 So Redwood Road. First I have been to literally every meeting for
every rezone they have had concerning this redevelopment. My property is at
1577 west 11745 So and the side of my land behind my house that runs north
to south along the the border of this property. My mail concern is I have lived
her for over 30 years. I raise and train very expensive rodeo horses, that being
said I am worried that children will climb the fence and get in with my horses
and I don't either people or my horses could be hurt. I don't want to be held
liable for people children getting hurt or drowning in the irrigation ditch which
runs along the property line. In previous meetings I voiced my concern and the
developer has said he there would be a 8-10 foot fence put between my
property and the new houses. I would like to be assured that will happen if you
do approve this zone change.
Terry Molloy
From:              Edward James
To:                Tim Prestwich; Jason Lethbridge
Subject:           Redwood Rezoning
Date:              Wednesday, April 15, 2020 11:15:19 AM
Attachments:       Redwood Rezoning.pdf


I am still in favor of a SD zone that:

1. The wetland lands needs to be established first.
2. The road layout I am supporting is as per the attached map.
3. the single parcel on Redwood should remain in the C-PO as it is more compatible to the parcel to the
north and Redwood Road.
4. The area to the north should have the same parameters as the RM-6 zone.
5. An appropriate buffer to be along Redwood Rd.

Upon further review the attached map is my input for the next PC meeting. The first thing that needs to be
don

If you have any questions please let me know



Edward Probyn James III, Architect, AICP

                               

architecture / urban planning / project management / consulting                        

EP J                   ARCHITECTS,                                L.L.C.   
              2619  W. ALICE SPRINGS RD. RIVERTON, UT, 84065            
      (801) 419-5482 epjames3@gmail.com              

                          CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:

This e-mail message including any attachments may contain confidential and/or privileged
information, and is intended solely for the persons or entities to which it is addressed. Any
unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient, please contact the sender by reply to this email message and delete/destroy all
copies of the original message.
From:           Troy Rushton
To:             Tim Prestwich; Gary Cannon; Kent Hartley; Troy Rushton
Subject:        Re: April 9, 2020 PC Packet
Date:           Tuesday, April 14, 2020 12:27:41 PM


Good day Tim,  

Regarding RD Development - PLZ 19-4015 below are my thoughts on considerations by
applicant, Riverton staff, and then City Council if application is approved by P.C.

Road Network - Residents have strong concern about possible traffic increase on Melba Lane
and this development may provide opportunity to decrease traffic for these residents. On page
49 I would suggest option #1 which ties development to Laurel Chase and close access to
Redwood from area 3 and route this traffic to the east. If approved by P.C then staff and City
Council could consider either closure of Melba Lane to Redwood which would route all
through traffic to new access onto Redwood. Another option might be post Melba Lane as
local traffic only; however enforcement would be a challenge. Personally based on my
experience living on Water Street once 3200 West had access to 13400 South I saw significant
reduction in traffic. I think if Laurel Chase tied to Redwood through new development with a
light for left turns and direct access to 11800 west bound the residents on Melba would also
see decreased traffic.

Open Space - It's clear that a significant portion of area 1 can not be built upon and the
applicant shows the open space on all concepts. Could this area be shown as Area 4 with
some Open Space / Park SD? Isn't the plan for the applicant and/or developer to deed this to
the city?

Townhall Meeting - Hard to do with current restrictions; however could the applicant and city
council member convene a virtual townhall again with residents? Government for the people,
by the people very important right now. Dealing with Herriman on widening project 6400 W
affecting my folks who've been there since 1960 and suffice to say it's difficult. At least our
Riverton elected officials post cell numbers!  

Gary, Kent, FYI gentleman.  

See ya all next Thursday.  

Best,

Troy Rushton
troyrushton.ut@gmail.com
801-259-2642 Cell


On Mon, Apr 6, 2020 at 2:20 PM Tim Prestwich <tprestwich@rivertonutah.gov> wrote:

  See the attached packet for the April 9th PC meeting.  



  -Tim
