                              REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT
                                           (Riverton City, Utah)

        This REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT is made effective as of the ____ day of __________, 202__,
by and between RIVERTON CITY, a municipality and political subdivision of the State of Utah (the “City”);
IHC HEALTH SERVICES, INC., a Utah nonprofit corporation (“Intermountain”), and RIVERTON BUSINESS
PARK, LLC, a Utah limited liability company (“RBP”, and together with Intermountain, “Developer”).

                                              RECITALS

        A.     Intermountain and RBP have entered into that certain Improvements Agreement dated
________, 2020 (the “Improvements Agreement”) for the construction of certain roadway improvements
for 4000 West and Dutchman Lane, as depicted on Exhibit A attached hereto. The roadway improvements
to be constructed under the Improvements Agreement will be dedicated to the City (the
“Improvements”).

        B.      Intermountain and RBP each desire to develop their respective land adjacent to the
Improvements, which property is located within the boundaries of the City. The Improvements are
required to be constructed in connection with any such development.

         C.     The Parties agree that the Improvements are: lawfully required as a condition of
development approval; reasonably anticipated to serve future development; located off-site or will create
additional or excess capacity beyond the proportionate share attributable to Developer to reasonably
service the proposed development at the City’s adopted level of service standards.

       D.     The City has adopted a policy that the proportionate share of the cost for public
improvements should be allocated to all the properties creating the need for or benefiting from the public
improvements.

        E.       Developer desires to be reimbursed for a proportionate share of the costs associated with
the construction and installation of the Improvements which are reasonably anticipated to provide
benefits to neighboring and surrounding properties (“Benefited Properties”), the owners of which are not
currently participating in the cost of such Improvements.

         F.       Reimbursements are authorized by the City for the purpose of implementing the policies
stated therein, and City and Developer desire to enter into this Reimbursement Agreement that permits
Developer to be reimbursed for a proportionate share of the costs associated with the construction and
installation of Improvements that benefit the Benefited Properties.

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties
hereby agree as follows:

      1.     Incorporation of Recitals. The foregoing Recitals are hereby incorporated into this
Reimbursement Agreement and are made a part hereof.

        2.      Developer’s Obligations.



                                                    1
                                                                                            4824-3916-5649
                 2.1.    Developer shall, at its own expense and in accordance with the requirements of
the Riverton City Code, Federal and State laws and regulations, the requirements of the City Engineer, and
all other conditions of development approval, construct and install or cause to be constructed and
installed the Improvements.

               2.2.      Developer shall, at its own expense, acquire necessary property interests for the
construction and installation of the Improvements and shall dedicate the acquired property interests and
Improvements to City, in a form approved and acceptable to the City Attorney.

                2.3.    Developer understands and agrees that Improvements will not be reimbursable
unless they are approved by City in advance of development in accordance with City’s ordinances, rules,
regulations, and engineering standards and specifications.

        3.      Cost Allocation and Collection from Benefited Properties.

                3.1.     The Parties agree that the properties reasonably anticipated to benefit from the
construction and installation of the Improvements are limited to those Benefited Properties located south
of the Improvements, described or depicted on Exhibit B, and cost allocation and collection shall be limited
to only such Benefited Properties.

                3.2.    City shall allocate one third (1/3) of the cost of the Improvements to the Benefited
Properties.

                 3.3.     City shall require owners of the Benefited Properties that seek City approval to
develop, subdivide or build any portion of the Benefited Properties, to pay to the City their proportionate
share of the allocated costs identified above in Section 3.2, prior to granting any development,
subdivision, conditional use, or site plan approval and prior to the City issuing any building permit, with
respect to the Benefited Properties. The parties acknowledge, understand and agree that the City is not
responsible or liable if an approval, permit or action is granted inadvertently to a Benefited Property or
person, unless done intentionally and by fraud; provided, however, in such event, Intermountain and RBP
shall be permitted to enforce such reimbursement obligation directly against the owners of the Benefitted
Properties.

        4.      Reimbursement Payments.

                  4.1.     Upon collection of the allocated costs from the Benefited Properties as set forth
above in Section 3, City shall pay the collected amount as a “Reimbursement Payment” to Developer.
Notwithstanding anything in this Reimbursement Agreement to the contrary, the City shall have no
obligation to make any Reimbursement Payment to Developer until the allocated costs are actually
received by City from an owner of the Benefited Properties. The parties acknowledge, understand and
agree that: (i) the City is not directly responsible or liable for any Reimbursement Payment to Developer,
other than to account for sums received from any owner of the Benefited Properties; (ii) the City is not
responsible in the event this Reimbursement Agreement is determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unenforceable.

                4.2.    No reimbursement shall be due to Developer until:




                                                     2
                                                                                              4824-3916-5649
                        4.2.1. The applicable Improvements have been fully installed, inspected, and
approved by the City, and the real property and Improvements have been dedicated to the City by lawful
conveyance through plat, warranty deed or other method acceptable to the City Attorney;

                    4.2.2. Developer has submitted the documentation required by this
Reimbursement Agreement evidencing actual costs of the Improvements; and

                         4.2.3. Such reimbursement is required by the terms of this Reimbursement
Agreement.

              4.3.    Intermountain and RBP hereby acknowledge and agree that upon receipt of the
Reimbursement Payment from the City or the owners of the Benefited Properties, such amount shall be
allocated and disbursed between such parties pursuant to and consistent with the terms of the
Improvements Agreement.

        5.      Reimbursement Amount.

                5.1.     Reimbursement.

                      5.1.1. The estimated costs of the Improvements are set forth in the attached
Exhibit C. The reimbursement for the Improvements shall be the actual costs of Improvements as
evidenced by the documentation submitted in accordance with the terms of this Reimbursement
Agreement.

                           5.1.2. The estimated costs for Improvements, shown in Exhibit C are estimates
only and shall, if actual costs are different, shall be adjusted accordingly in accordance with actual costs.

                        5.1.3. Developer shall provide to the City documentation, acceptable to the City
Attorney, demonstrating the actual costs incurred by the Developer for the construction and installation
of the Improvements. Documentation shall include but not be limited to: receipts, checks, vouchers, bills,
statements, and all other information necessary for the City to determine the actual costs incurred.
Developer’s failure to submit the required documentation shall result in delay of the payment of the
undocumented amount.

                5.2.     Interest. No interest shall be included in the amount of the reimbursement, and
no interest shall be paid to Developer by the City or any other person on any amounts due under this
Reimbursement Agreement.

        6.       Ownership of Improvements. Ownership shall be with the City upon: (i) dedication of the
real property pursuant to a recorded plat, (ii) completion of construction of the Improvements by
Developer; (iii) completion of applicable warranty periods; and (iv) inspection, approval and written
acceptance by the City. After satisfaction of the foregoing items (i)-(iv), City shall: (a) own the
Improvements in fee title absolute, together with the lands and rights-of-way dedicated to the City, and
(b) assume responsibility for all maintenance, repair and replacement of the Improvements, subject to
any applicable warranty periods.

        7.      Term of Agreement. This Reimbursement Agreement shall terminate ten (10) years
following the effective date of the Reimbursement Agreement or at such earlier time as the cumulative
reimbursement amount reaches the maximum reimbursement. No reimbursement shall become due and

                                                     3
                                                                                               4824-3916-5649
payable after said ten (10) year period (but any amount that has already become due, but remains unpaid
at the end of such 10-year period, shall remain payable to Developer).

        8.       Effect of Agreement. Nothing in this Reimbursement Agreement shall be construed to
relieve Developer of any obligations imposed on Developer by Federal, State or local laws, ordinances,
regulations, or standards.

       9.     Waiver and Covenant Not to Sue. Developer specifically agrees to accept the
reimbursement specified herein as full and final payment of all claims against the City or the owners of
any of the Benefited Properties. Developer hereby waives any rights or claims against the City for
reimbursement of any kind or source other than as set forth herein.

        10.      Assignment. Neither the Reimbursement Agreement nor any of its provisions, terms or
conditions may be assigned to any other party, individual or entity without assigning the rights as well as
the responsibilities and without the prior written consent of City.

       11.     Entire Agreement. This Reimbursement Agreement contains the entire agreement and
understanding of the parties with respect to reimbursement to Developer for the Improvements and
supersedes all prior written or oral agreements, representations, promises, inducements, or
understandings between the parties with regard to any reimbursements to Developer from the City.

        12.     Binding Effect. This Reimbursement Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto
and their respective officers, employees, representatives, agents, members, successors, and assigns.

        13.     Validity and Severability. If any section, clause, or portion of this Reimbursement
Agreement is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction for any reason, the remainder shall not
be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.

        14.     Amendment. This Reimbursement Agreement may be amended only in a writing signed
by the parties hereto.

       15.    Controlling Law, Jurisdiction and Venue. This Reimbursement Agreement shall be
governed by the laws of the State of Utah. Venue must be in Salt Lake County, Utah. EACH PARTY
KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY WAIVES ALL RIGHTS IT MAY HAVE TO DEMAND TRIAL BY JURY FOR ANY
ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT.

         16.      Notices. All communications, consents, and other notices provided for in this Agreement
will be in writing and will be effective on the date sent by receipted hand delivery, confirmed facsimile or
e-mail, nationally-recognized, overnight courier, or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage
prepaid, and addressed as follows:

      (a)      Intermountain:

              IHC HEALTH SERVICES, INC.
              36 South State Street, 22nd Floor
              Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
              Attention: Corporate Real Estate Director




                                                     4
                                                                                              4824-3916-5649
      E-mail: tom.uriona@imail.org
      Phone: (801) 442-3987

(b)   RBP:

      Riverton Business Park, LLC
      395 South Main Street, #206
      Alpine, Utah 84004
      Attention: Steve Marx
      E-mail: steve@marxcap.com
      Phone: 801.471.7276

(c)   City:

      Riverton City
      12830 S. Redwood Road
      Riverton, Utah 84065
      Attention: ________________
      Email: ___________________
      Phone: __________________




                              [signature page follows]




                                         5
                                                         4824-3916-5649
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have made this Reimbursement Agreement effective
as of the date first set forth above.

CITY:                                                 ATTEST:


By:
Name:                                                 City Recorder
Title: Mayor

Date:


DEVELOPER:
IHC HEALTH SERVICES, INC., a Utah nonprofit corporation


By:
Printed Name:
Title:
Date:

RIVERTON BUSINESS PARK, LLC, a Utah limited liability company


By:
Printed Name:
Title:
Date:



[NOTARY SIGNATURE BLOCKS TO BE ADDED]




                                                 6
                                                                                   4824-3916-5649
           Exhibit A

DEPICTION OF THE IMPROVEMENTS




              7
                                4824-3916-5649
                      Exhibit B

DESCRIPTION OR DEPICTION OF THE BENEFITED PROPERTIES




                         8
                                                       4824-3916-5649
              Exhibit C

ESTIMATED COSTS OF THE IMPROVEMENTS




                 9
                                      4824-3916-5649
