                                  MEMORANDUM
To:               Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:             Planning Department
Date:             January 2, 2024
Subject:          Discussion- Light Pollution Discussion


This item is for discussion only.

Background

As Riverton City’s commercial development has expanded, concerns regarding lighting within
commercial, office, and industrial uses, as well as larger residential communities, have increased.
The Riverton City lighting ordinances have not been updated for some time, and this agenda item is
a preliminary discussion of issues regarding lighting, example ordinances from other cities, and
potential changes to the existing ordinances.
To help facilitate the discussion, Staff has included example ordinances from several area cities,
ranging from brief language with general guidelines to very detailed and specific standards. There is
also a diagram used in several cities’ ordinances showing acceptable and non-acceptable fixture
types, included for reference. In addition to issues raised during discussion, there are several points
to consider:
     •    Restrictions on placement of light sources in proximity to adjacent properties
     •    Time-of-day restrictions on different lighting types
     •    Direct vs indirect lighting- Ordinance language that refers to screening or shielding so that no
          lighting is visible from adjacent properties is typically addressing “direct” lighting, where the
          lighting source (bulb, etc) is visible. “Indirect” lighting is lighting that is visible even if the light
          source is not.
     •    Promotional / Holiday lighting
Staff will have additional information available during the discussion.


Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Example Ordinances




Report by: JL
12/27/2023
Example Ordinance
     South Jordan
CHAPTER 16.42 COMMERCIAL LIGHTING
16.42.010: PURPOSE
16.42.020: DEFINITIONS
16.42.030: REGULATIONS
16.42.040: ILLUMINATED SIGNAGE REGULATIONS
16.42.050: ENFORCEMENT

16.42.010: PURPOSE

   A. The purpose of this chapter is to regulate commercial lighting and illuminated
      signage luminance levels within limits of the city of South Jordan.

(Ord. 2007-07, 7-17-2007)

16.42.020: DEFINITIONS

   A. Unless the context requires otherwise, the words and terms defined in this chapter
      shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.

      CONSTANT LIGHTING: A light fixture meant to operate continually, and not meant
      to operate only briefly upon activation by a motion sensor or other device. A motion
      detector     activated      light     would      be    a      nonconstant      light.

      FIXTURE: The bulb and the assembly that holds the bulb (or lamp) in a lighting
      system, including the elements that provide light output control such as a reflector
      (mirror) or refractor (lens) and the ballast, photo sensor, and housing.

      FULLY SHIELDED: A fixture with an opaque housing or attachment thereto which
      prevents a line of sight to the bulb when viewed from another property and which
      prevents a line of sight to any part of the light source at or above a horizontal plane
      running       through        the      lowest       portion      of     the      fixture.

      GLARE: The sensation caused by luminance within the visual field, produced by
      components of a fixture that are meant to distribute light (the light source)
      sufficiently greater than the luminance to which the eyes are adapted to cause
      annoyance, discomfort, or loss of visual performance or acuity.

      LIGHT SOURCE: Source from which the light emanates either directly from the
      bulb, or indirectly from a reflective enclosure, lens, or diffuser.

      LUMEN: The unit used to measure the actual amount of light that is produced by
      a bulb.

(Ord. 2007-07, 7-17-2007)

16.42.030: REGULATIONS
   A. All commercial lighting fixtures attached to a commercial building within South
      Jordan must be fully shielded or angled to prevent the emanation of light into other
      areas.
   B. Any single exterior commercial light may not exceed fifteen thousand (15,000)
      lumens, when measured directly at the light source with a certified light meter.
          a. Exceptions may be granted when deemed necessary and with the approval
             by the South Jordan City engineer.

(Ord. 2007-07, 7-17-2007)

16.42.040: ILLUMINATED SIGNAGE REGULATIONS

   A. All commercial illuminated signs, whether attached to a commercial building or
      freestanding, within South Jordan may not exceed one thousand (1,000) lumens
      when measured directly at the light source with a certified light meter.
   B. All commercial illuminated signs that are freestanding in a commercial area within
      South Jordan may not exceed one thousand (1,000) lumens, when measured
      directly at the light source with a certified light meter.
   C. The use of searchlights are prohibited except when used by civil authorities for
      public safety purposes or as permitted by the city.
   D. The use of laser lighting for advertising or promotions is prohibited.
   E. Lighting for public events, exhibits, or activities is exempt from this chapter but
      should make every attempt to keep with the intent of this chapter.
   F. Sports and publicly owned athletic field lighting are exempt from this chapter.
   G. Holiday lighting for businesses is exempt from this chapter.

(Ord. 2007-07, 7-17-2007)

16.42.050: ENFORCEMENT

   A. The administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be under the supervision
      and direction of the city code compliance office and the South Jordan police
      department.
Example Ordinance
           Sandy
Sec. 21-23-11. Lighting.
(a)   Spotlights. Reflectors, spotlights, floodlights and other sources of illumination may be used to illuminate
      buildings, landscaping, signs, parking, and loading areas, provided they are equipped with proper lenses or
      other devices concentrating the illumination upon the building, landscaping, signs, parking, and loading
      areas.
(b)   Light Spill. No unshielded lights, reflectors, spotlights, strobe lights, or search lights shall be so located so that
      they are pointed towards or are directly visible from public rights-of-way. All lighting shall be shielded and
      directed downward to avoid light spill beyond the property line. Unshielded, exterior wall-mounted
      floodlights (wall packs) are prohibited. Intensities shall be controlled so that neighboring areas will not be
      adversely affected by glare or excessive light.
(c)   Appropriate Lighting. Pole mounted fixtures are required for parking lot lighting. Lighting of pedestrian
      pathways is also required. Lighting of buildings and site identification signs are permitted.
(d)   Site Drawings. Design and location of standards and fixtures shall be specified on the site development
      drawings. The use of color corrected high pressure sodium (white light) light fixtures is strongly encouraged.
(LDC 2008, § 15A-23-11; Ord. No. 21-08 , § 1(Exh. A), 3-23-2021)




                                                                                              Created: 2023-08-09 16:13:03 [EST]

(Supp. No. 11)

                                                        Page 1 of 1
Example Ordinance
          Draper
CHAPTER 20
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
9-20-010: Purpose
9-20-020: Scope
9-20-030: Definitions
9-20-040: Design Standards
9-20-050: Design Suggestions
9-20-060: Security
9-20-070: Illumination Standards
9-20-080: Buffering
9-20-090: Staged Lighting
9-20-100: Required Submittals


9-20-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect and promote the health, safety, and welfare of city
residents and businesses by regulating the design and installation of lighting fixtures to
achieve the following objectives:
A. To protect against direct glare and excessive lighting;
B. To provide safe roadways for motorists, cyclists, and pedestrians;
C. To protect and reclaim the ability to view the night sky and help to preserve the quality
of life for residents and visitors of the city;
D. To prevent light pollution and light trespass in all areas of the city;
E. To promote energy conservation by installing efficient and cost effective lighting;
F. To ensure that sufficient lighting can be provided where needed to promote safety and
security by eliminating shadows and blinding glare;
G. To allow for flexibility in the style of lighting fixtures;
H. To provide lighting guidelines;
I. To provide assistance to property owners and occupants in bringing nonconforming
lighting into conformance with this chapter;
J. To work with other county jurisdictions as well as the state to meet the purposes of this
chapter;
K. To provide a superior aesthetic and design quality of lighting and fixtures; and
L. To eliminate the over illumination of commercial sites. (Ord. 795, 1-15-2008)


9-20-020: SCOPE:
All outdoor/exterior lighting shall be in compliance with the regulations established by this
chapter and any other chapters of this title. These regulations shall apply to all outdoor
lighting, including, but not limited to, buildings and structures, recreational areas, parking
lots, landscaping, streets, and signage. (Ord. 795, 1-15-2008)


9-20-030: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
EXTERIOR LIGHTING: Temporary or permanent lighting that is installed, located, or used in
such a manner to cause light rays to shine outside. Fixtures that are installed indoors that
are intended to light something outside are considered exterior lighting for the intent of
this chapter.
FIXTURE: The assembly that holds the lamp in a lighting system, including the elements
designed to give light output control, such as a reflector or mirror, the refractor or lens, the
ballast, the housing, and the attachment parts.
FLOODLIGHT: Light that generally produces from one thousand (1,000) to one thousand
eight hundred (1,800) lumens and is designed to flood a well defined area with light.
FOOT-CANDLE: Illuminance produced on a surface one foot (1') from a uniform point
source of one candela, measured by a light meter.
FULL CUTOFF FIXTURES: Fixtures that are designed or shielded in such a manner that all
light rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamps or indirectly from the
fixture, are projected below a horizontal plane running through the lowest point on the
fixture where light is emitted.
GLARE: Intense light that results in discomfort and/or a reduction of visual performance
and visibility.
ILLUMINANCE: Density of luminous flux incident on a surface. A typical unit of
measurement is foot-candle or lux. For the purposes of this chapter, all units of illuminance
shall be measured in foot-candles.
ILLUMINATION RATIO: The relationship between the maximum illumination value
observed to the average of all illumination values observed.
LAMP: The source of electric light: the bulb and its housing as a part of the luminaire, also
referred to as a light source.
LIGHT: The form of radiant energy acting on the retina of the eye to make sight possible.
LIGHT POLLUTION: Any adverse effect of manmade light, including, but not limited to, light
trespass, uplighting, the uncomfortable distraction to the eye, or any manmade light that
diminishes the ability to view the night sky, reducing the general quality of life and the
reasonable enjoyment of property for the community; often used to denote urban sky glow.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Light falling where it is not wanted or needed, such as a light on a
property that shines onto the property of others.
LIGHTING: Any or all parts of a luminaire that function to produce light.
LUMEN: Unit of luminous flux equal to the light emitted in a unit solid angle by a uniform
point source of one candle intensity. One foot-candle is equal to one lumen per square foot.
One lux is equal to one lumen per square meter.
LUMINAIRE: The complete lighting unit, including the lamp, the fixture, and other parts.
WALL PACK: A light or grouping of lights mounted to the exterior of a building designed or
implemented to provide illumination to an area near the building. (Ord. 795, 1-15-2008)


9-20-040: DESIGN STANDARDS:
A. Recreational Lighting:
1. The following standards apply to the lighting of all nonresidential outdoor recreational
facilities except baseball, softball, soccer, volleyball, football fields, driving ranges, outdoor
arenas and amphitheaters, or other field recreational facilities:
a. The height of any light source shall not exceed twenty feet (20') to the top of the
luminaire or pole, whichever is higher, as depicted in figure 9-20-1 of this section.
FIGURE 9-20-1
TYPICAL MAXIMUM HEIGHT DETERMINATION METHODS FOR LIGHTING
b. All lighting or illumination units or sources shall be hooded or shielded so as to allow
no light trespass onto any adjacent lot or real property. Lights or illuminating units shall
not direct light, either directly or through a reflecting device, upon any adjacent real
property.
2. All of the recreational lighting excepted from the above standards shall meet the
following standards:
a. All metal halide lamps shall be filtered by glass, acrylic, or translucent enclosures.
b. No lighting of one hundred fifty (150) watts or greater shall be used after ten thirty
o'clock (10:30) P.M.
B. Sign Lighting: Although signage is strongly encouraged to be back lit whenever possible,
external lighting of the face of signs, when implemented, shall be placed above the sign,
facing downward toward the sign, and shielded in a manner that the lamp shall not be
visible from any adjacent lot or real property. Lamp visibility shall be considered as if the
glass or globe of the fixture was not present. External lighting for signage should not
produce more than 0.5 foot-candle of light reflection from the sign. Also see section 9-26-
080 of this title.
C. Security, Landscaping, Architectural, And Other Lighting: All outdoor lights shall be
shielded to reduce light trespass to permissible levels.
D. Other Pole Mounted Lighting For Parking, Etc.: All lights mounted on poles eight feet
(8') or greater in height shall be directed down perpendicular to the ground. The lamp shall
be shielded so that it will not be visible from any adjacent real property. Lamp visibility
shall be considered as if the glass or globe of the fixture was not present. Pole lighting
should only be implemented for parking areas and other vehicular circulation features.
E. Street Pole Mounted Lighting: All lights mounted on poles eight feet (8') or greater in
height shall be directed down perpendicular to the ground. The light source shall be full
cutoff fixtures. (Ord. 795, 1-15-2008)
F. Exterior Lighting: All exterior lighting, including public street lighting, as applicable,
shall meet the following design criteria:
1. Background spaces like parking lots shall be illuminated as unobtrusively as possible to
meet the functional needs of safe circulation and protection of people and property.
Foreground spaces, such as building entrances and outside seating areas, shall utilize local
lighting that defines the space without glare.
2. Light sources shall be full cutoff fixtures to minimize the potential for glare and
unnecessary diffusion on adjacent property.
3. All outdoor light not necessary for security purposes shall be reduced, activated by
motion sensors devices, or turned off during nonoperation hours.
4. Light fixtures used to illuminate flags, statues, or any other object mounted on a pole,
pedestal, or platform shall use a narrow cone beam or light that will not produce
illumination of 0.2 foot-candle or greater above the object being lit. All such lights shall be
recessed such that the surface of the globe is flush with the finished grade or object's base
in which the light is mounted.
5. For upward directed architectural, landscape, and decorative lighting, direct light
emissions shall not exceed 0.1 foot-candle at the building roofline.
6. Light fixtures shall be located, whenever possible, on the interior of parking areas with
light directed such that only the parking areas receive direct light. Wall pack lighting to be
located on building facades shall be implemented only for the illumination of building
entrance areas and directed such that only the area around building entrances is
illuminated.
7. Maximum pole height is twenty feet (20') except as provided in section 9-20-090 of this
chapter.
G. Number Of Primary Lighting Poles: The maximum number of primary light poles to be
implemented on a site shall be limited to a ratio of one pole for not less than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet of gross site area. If additional lighting is necessary, a bollard or
pedestrian scale light pole of not more than eight feet (8') in height may be used.
H. Light Pole Spacing: Light poles shall be spaced such that overlap in the areas of direct
lighting is eliminated.
I. Wall Packs: The implementation of wall pack lighting should be stringently avoided with
the exception of sites which are incorporating existing lights on existing structures.
J. Bollards: The use of bollard style lighting should be the primary illumination source for
all pedestrian walkways and areas as well as buildings entry areas.
K. Colors:
1. Light Color: Site lighting is strongly encouraged to be a white light.
2. Pole Colors: Site lighting poles shall be black in color. The planning commission may
permit colors other than black for lighting poles upon establishing findings that the color:
a) will architecturally match the colors of the building(s) on the site to a greater extent than
black; and b) will less dramatically detract from the appearance of the building(s) on the
site than will black poles.
3. Uniformity: All site lighting poles shall be of the same color throughout any one site or
development.
L. Light Pole Placement: Site lighting is strongly encouraged to be placed on the site such
that the poles do not line the exterior of the site but rather are placed toward the interior of
the site to reduce the number of poles on a site and to allow the inherent grade area
coverage of the light to be maximized. (Ord. 1132, 2-17-2015)
9-20-050: DESIGN SUGGESTIONS:
There are many ways to adequately illuminate a site without reducing the aesthetics or
safety of the site. Examples of alternative methods strongly encouraged by this chapter are
the use of bollards, teardrop lights, lower poles, and downward facing gooseneck lights.
(Ord. 795, 1-15-2008)


9-20-060: SECURITY:
Sufficient lighting should be provided to protect persons and property as well as to allow
for proper function of surveillance equipment. Security lighting plans shall utilize shielded
fixtures; no floodlights shall be permitted. All security lighting shall be implemented with
motion detectors that shall not turn on unless an intruder is within five feet (5') of the
property and automatically turns off the lights after a maximum period of fifteen (15)
minutes. No security lighting shall be permitted with any off site light trespass. (Ord. 795,
1-15-2008)


9-20-070: ILLUMINATION STANDARDS:
A. Illumination Ratios: For the purpose of this section, the illumination ratio shall be the
direct comparison between the maximum illumination reading at any one point on a site
and the average of all illumination readings throughout the same site. This arrangement,
although not typical of ratio comparisons established elsewhere, is done in an effort to
achieve an even and appropriate amount of illumination while maintaining night sky
visibility, reducing light pollution, and providing for general safety throughout Draper City.
B. Intensities: All uses which require a lighting plan to be submitted for review according
to this chapter shall maintain compliance with the illumination found in tables 9-20-1 and
9-20-2 of this section.
TABLE 9-20-1
ILLUMINATION STANDARDS1

 Uses                          Maximum            Maximum              Maximum
                               Illumination       Average              Illumination Ratio
                                                  Illumination         (Max:Ave)
 Uses                          Maximum            Maximum              Maximum
                               Illumination       Average              Illumination Ratio
                                                  Illumination         (Max:Ave)
 Auto dealerships              25.0               15.0                 5:1
 Bank                          5.0                3.0                  2.5:1
 Building entrance areas       8.0                5.0                  2:1
 Canopies                      15.0               10.0                 2:1
 Church or place of worship    5.0               3.0                   2.5:1
 Gas stations/convenience      10.0              5.0                   2.5:1
 stores
 Hospital                      5.0               3.0                   2.5:1
 Hotel/motel                   8.0               4.0                   3:1
 Medical service               5.0               3.0                   2.5:1
 Multi-family residential      8.0               4.0                   2.5:1
 developments
 Office                        5.0               3.0                   2.5:1
 Pedestrian areas              7.0               4.0                   3:1
 Preschool and daycare4        8.0               4.0                   3:1
 Restaurants                   8.0               5.0                   2.5:1
 Retail                        10.0              6.0                   2:1
 Security lighting3            15.0              10.0                  3:1
 Site boundary2                0.2               0.1                   n/a
 Other uses5                   8.0               5.0                   2.5:1




Notes:
 1. All readings measured in foot-candles.
 2. Unless more tightly restricted by section 9-20-090 of this chapter.
  3. All lighting to meet the terms of section 9-20-060 of this chapter or must conform to
standard site illumination.
  4. Such uses in residential zones may be required to maintain lower illumination levels
to mitigate light impacts on neighboring properties.
 5. All other uses that require a lighting plan not otherwise identified in this table.
C. After Hours Intensities: Sites which require a site lighting plan and which are to contain
a use or uses which is not open to their patronage twenty four (24) hours per day shall also
be required to submit a site lighting plan which details the illumination to be on the site
during closed periods. After hours illumination plans shall conform to at least the following
standards:
1. Illumination Reduction: The after hours lighting plan shall meet each of the applicable
standards outlined in table 9-20-2 of this section.
TABLE 9-20-2
AFTER HOURS ILLUMINATION STANDARDS1
 Uses                         Maximum           Maximum              Maximum
                              Illumination      Average              Illumination Ratio
                                                Illumination         (Max:Ave)
 Uses                         Maximum           Maximum              Maximum
                              Illumination      Average              Illumination Ratio
                                                Illumination         (Max:Ave)
 Auto dealerships             15.0              10.0                 5:1
 Bank                         5.0               3.0                  2.5:1
 Building entrance areas      4.0               2.5                  2:1
 Canopies                     10.0              5.0                  2:1
 Church or place of worship   3.0               2.0                  2.5:1
 Gas stations/convenience     5.0               2.5                  2.5:1
 stores
 Hospital                     5.0               3.0                  2.5:1
 Hotel/motel                  8.0               4.0                  3:1
 Medical service              3.0               2.0                  2.5:1
 Multi-family residential     8.0               4.0                  2.5:1
 developments
 Office                       3.0               2.0                  2.5:1
 Pedestrian areas             7.0               4.0                  3:1
 Preschool and daycare4       4.0               2.5                  3:1
 Restaurants                  4.0               2.5                  2.5:1
 Retail                       5.0               3.0                  2:1
 Security lighting3           15.0              10.0                 3:1
 Site boundary2               0.2               0.1                  n/a
 Other uses5                  6.0               3.5                  2.5:1




Notes:
1. All readings measured in foot-candles.
2. Unless more tightly restricted by section 9-20-090 of this chapter.
3. All lighting to meet the terms of section 9-20-060 of this chapter or must conform to
standard site illumination.
4. Such uses in residential zones may be required to maintain lower illumination levels to
mitigate light impacts on neighboring properties.
5. All other uses that require a lighting plan not otherwise identified in table 9-20-1 of this
section.
2. Lighting Reduction: The after hours lighting plan shall also demonstrate a reduction in
the number of lighting sources that are on during after hours times. The reduction in the
number of lighting sources shall reduce the lighting sources in use by at least one-third
(1/3).
3. Alterations: The planning commission may approve an increase in the number of
lighting sources remaining lit or the illumination level during after hours times upon
establishing the finding that such an alteration is necessary to maintain the security of the
site. Said alterations shall only be allowed to the minimum number of light fixtures
necessary to remain lit to maintain adequate security for the site. (Ord. 795, 1-15-2008)


9-20-080: BUFFERING:
Any lighting implemented as a part of a plan as required by this chapter along a property
line shared with a residential use or zone shall conform to the following standards:
A. The maximum illumination at any point along the property line shall be 0.2 foot-candle.
B. No lighting source shall be located within twenty feet (20') of the shared property line.
If the site area immediately adjacent to the property line is a pedestrian area or landscaped
buffer area, bollard style lighting may be used for illumination of these areas.
C. No lamp shall be visible from the adjacent property when standing on the shared
property line. Lamp visibility shall be considered as if the glass or globe of the fixture was
not present. (Ord. 795, 1-15-2008)


9-20-090: STAGED LIGHTING:
For the purposes of this section, staged lighting shall refer only to the heights of the light
poles, allowing greater heights toward the interior of large parking areas in an effort to
minimize the amount and impact of site lighting required. Sites which incorporate one
hundred (100) or more parking spaces in any one parking area may be designed to include
staged lighting systems. Larger commercial developments which include multiple
buildings, uses, and/or parking areas may, as approved by the planning commission, also
implement staged lighting.
A. Pole Heights: Sites desiring to implement staged lighting shall not have pole heights
exceeding the following, as depicted in figure 9-20-2 of this section:
1. The outermost row(s) of lights may not have poles exceeding fifteen feet (15') in height,
typically measured.
2. The second outermost row of lights may not have poles exceeding twenty feet (20') in
height, typically measured.
3. The third outermost row of lights may not have poles exceeding twenty five feet (25') in
height, typically measured.
4. The fourth outermost row of lights, and all subsequent rows may not have poles
exceeding thirty feet (30') in height, typically measured.
FIGURE 9-20-2




B. Buildings: Where buildings are located or proposed to be located between the boundary
of the property and the outermost row of site lighting, the outermost row of lights may be
considered a subsequent inner row for all poles where the building is between the light and
the property line so long as the height of that outermost row of lights does not exceed the
height of the building. Subsequent lighting rows may then increase in height as typical for
inner rows.
C. Photometrics: The photometric requirements for a site shall not be adjusted for any site
incorporating staged lighting.
D. Bollards: Sites which are proposed to include a staged lighting plan are strongly
encouraged to incorporate bollard style lighting to illuminate building entrance areas and
pedestrian areas away from parking area lighting.
E. Boundaries: Sites with a staged lighting plan shall have a maximum of 0.0 foot-candle
illumination at any point along the boundary line of the site. (Ord. 795, 1-15-2008)


9-20-100: REQUIRED SUBMITTALS:
All new construction or reconstruction which is subject to staff design review and/or site
plan approval shall submit an outdoor lighting plan and lighting study for the entire site
which indicates how the standards of this chapter are to be met as determined by the
zoning administrator and/or planning commission, as required. All outdoor lighting plans
must include at least:
A. The general layout of the site including buildings, pedestrian areas, parking areas, and
site features to be implemented or preserved as natural;
B. Illumination readings for the site, spaced no greater than five feet (5') apart, depicting
what can be expected at the finished grade of the site;
C. Location of all proposed lighting sources, whether freestanding or building mounted;
D. Design details and quantities for each lighting source type proposed to be implemented
on the site;
E. Design details, including full dimensioning, for all pole and mounting systems to be
implemented on the site;
F. Illumination readings measured along the boundary line of the site, spaced no greater
than five feet (5') apart regardless of site size, as can be expected at the finished grade;
G. Tabular information declaring the maximum, minimum, average, and ratio illumination
readings for at least general site areas, canopy areas, site boundary, pedestrian areas, and
building entrance areas; and
H. Complete and clear identification of all aspects of a staged lighting proposal for the site,
as applicable.


APPENDIX A
ALLOWED LIGHTING TYPES
Figure 1
What is a true full cutoff lighting fixture?
Flat glass lens, eliminates or minimizes direct glare with no upward thrown light. The
housing for these fixtures is available in many styles.




Same fixture as above, mounted incorrectly defeating the horizontal mounting design. The
fixture now produces direct glare and can also produce upward thrown light, sometimes at
steep mounting angles.




Known as "cutoff", center drop or sag lens with or without exposed bulbs still produces
direct glare.




Forward throw style. Exposed bulb in forward direction produces some direct glare.
APPENDIX B
ALLOWED ILLUMINATION STYLES




APPENDIX C
 EXAMPLE OF LIGHTING USES




Examples of full cut off lighting and bollard lighting to light walkways
(Ord. 795, 1-15-2008)
Example Ordinance
        Herriman
10-29-34: Outdoor Lighting

   A. General Provisions: Outdoor lighting fixtures shall be arranged to direct light away
      from adjoining residential property.
         1. Lighting fixtures mounted on utility poles shall be fully shielded, cut-off type
             fixtures that will not allow light dispersion or direct glare to shine above a
             ninety degree (90°) horizontal plane from the base of the fixture.
         2. Detached lighting of signs, buildings and displays shall be directed
             downward. Uplighting shall be prohibited except as allowed in landscaped
             areas as part of an approved site plan, conditional use permit, or other plan
             or permit.
         3. Electrical service to outdoor lighting fixtures shall be underground unless
             fixtures are mounted directly on utility poles.
   B. Exemptions: The following types of outdoor lighting shall be exempt from the
      provisions of this section:
         1. Holiday lighting during the months of November, December, and January,
             provided such lighting does not create dangerous glare on adjacent streets
             or property;
         2. Temporary lighting for temporary uses approved as part of a temporary use
             permit pursuant to section 10-5-14 of this title;
         3. Lighting associated with agricultural operations;
         4. Construction or emergency lighting, provided such lighting is temporary and
             is discontinued when the need for such lighting ends; and
         5. Roadway lighting. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)
             Example Ordinance
Acceptable Fixture Types Diagram
