                                  MEMORANDUM
To:               Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:             Planning Department
Date:             May 7, 2024
Subject:          Ordinance 24-06: Amending Section 18.215.030(2) and 18.135.300, updating
                  and amending code relating to outdoor commercial lighting, Amendments
                  proposed by Riverton City


On April 11, 2024 the Planning Commission held their second of two public hearings on
this proposed text amendment. Minutes from both meetings are included below. The
Planning Commission voted to recommend approval, with the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 24-06, amending Sections 18.215.030(2) and
18.135.300, amending and updating Riverton City’s standards related to outdoor commercial
lighting, as described in Exhibit “A”.

Background

This item is proposed amendments to Riverton City’s standards regarding exterior commercial
lighting. As Riverton City’s commercial development has expanded, concerns regarding lighting
within commercial, office, and industrial uses, including where adjacent to residential communities,
have increased. The Riverton City lighting ordinances have not been updated for some time, and
this issue has been discussed with the City Council. The Council has directed Staff to prepare
amendments to the Land Use Code addressing outdoor lighting in commercial sites, including office
and industrial uses. One specific issue that has arisen is with temporary holiday lighting on
commercial buildings, which are not currently well-defined in Riverton City’s code.
Staff reviewed similar ordinances for several of the Salt Lake Valley cities, and identified issues
typically addressed in commercial exterior lighting codes, which include:
     •    Restrictions on placement of light sources in proximity to adjacent properties
     •    Time-of-day restrictions on different lighting types
     •    Direct vs indirect lighting- Ordinance language that refers to screening or shielding so that no
          lighting is visible from adjacent properties is typically addressing “direct” lighting, where the
          lighting source (bulb, etc) is visible. “Indirect” lighting is lighting that is visible even if the light
          source is not.
     •    Promotional / Holiday lighting and allowed time of day and display periods.
The proposed code amendments include better definitions and specifications for “shielded’ lighting,
as well as potential exemptions from that requirement for certain types of lighting or situations. The
amendment also addresses holiday lighting installation, with limitations on duration of display each
day and throughout the year. For temporary holiday lighting, the general restriction in the draft is to
Report by: JL
5/2/2024
particular dates, and with the lighting required to be off by 11:00 for general businesses. Where a
building is within 100 feet of a residential property line, the temporary lighting must be off by 10:00
pm. For regular lighting on a commercial structure adjacent to residential properties, lighting must
be off by 11:00, with certain exceptions such as security lighting. Staff will review the ordinance draft
in detail at the hearing.
The Planning Commission reviewed the draft language over several meetings, and made
amendments to the original draft text. Those amendments are reflected in the draft before the City
Council, and minutes from the Commission hearings are included.


Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Draft lighting ordinance language
        2. Minutes from Planning Commission hearings.




Report by: JL
5/2/2024
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              14
April 11, 2024



Mr. Molett stated that the fence is actually five feet in height rather than the six feet
described. He took photos showing the height of the car when he was standing on his porch
where they can see the top of the wheels. Mr. Molett estimated that the fence is 2 ½ feet in
height and is level from side to side in the neighbor’s backyard. The eastern side of the
property is leveled with a drop-off leading to the adjacent property.

Mr. Molett stated that the fence was erected prior to the construction of the homes. He
mentioned that when their home was built there were no homes behind it. It would be
convenient for the neighbors to have a private patio to mitigate the noise. He looked forward
to privacy and muffled noise levels. He stated that the neighbors have been very
conscientious but their activities are very close by. Chair Matheson was impressed by
Mr. Molett’s patience and willingness to resolve the issue without confrontation.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-24-2011,
“Molett Parallel Fencing”, at 4473 West Sacajawea Street, subject to the following
conditions:

      1.     A second fence, extending a total height of up to eight (8) feet along the
             southwest property line may be installed in compliance with Riverton City
             Code Section 18.155.110, allowing the existing fence to remain.

      2.     The applicant shall maintain his property, including the space adjacent
             to the existing fencing, in compliance with City Ordinance.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Beck. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      E.     EXTERIOR LIGHTING ORDINANCE AMENDMENT, PLZ-24-5001,
             AMENDING SECTIONS 18.215.030 AND 18.135.200, UPDATING
             STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO EXTERIOR
             COMMERCIAL LIGHTING. AMENDMENTS PROPOSED BY RIVERTON
             CITY.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the request was presented to the
Planning Commission in a previous meeting where there was a considerable amount of
discussion. He reported that they are considering updating the current ordinance, which is
basic and brief. The request arose from a specific complaint that highlighted some issues,
as well as areas in the Code that could be updated. The concern revolved around lighting,
including temporary holiday lighting, near a residential area to the rear of a commercial
business.      Surrounding communities were examined as discussed previously.
Mr. Prestwich outlined a few proposed changes. One of the topics discussed was the timing
at which the lights are required to be turned off. Modifications were made to the language.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 15
April 11, 2024


The Code now states that lighting facing or oriented toward a residential property where the
building is within 100 feet must be turned off at 11:00 PM or when the business closes,
whichever is earlier.

Mr. Prestwich stated that it would be unreasonable to expect lighting that is not visible from
the residence to be turned off. A couple of changes were made to the holiday lighting
section. As discussed previously, it was observed that there is currently minimal impact but
it seems likely that more businesses will at least consider the possibility of holiday or
temporary lighting. The Code categorizes holiday lighting as either temporary or permanent.
If a business is considering a permanent installation of strip lighting or holiday lighting,
approval would be required either in the original site plan or through an amendment.

The holiday period was defined as November to January. There was a restriction on the
number of hours in a day, initially set at 16 and feedback from the Commission suggested
that this might be too much. Therefore, the limit was adjusted to no more than 12 hours
within a 24-hour period, meaning that the lights cannot remain constantly on. A comment
made during the previous discussion was incorporated into the Code that outside of the
defined holiday periods, it would require site plan approval.

The Code prohibits flashing and moving lighting within 100 feet of residential properties and
must be off by 10:00 PM. The Easter holiday was previously left off of the holiday list and
was included on the refined list. Mr. Prestwich commented that another city has had a similar
Code in place for some time and they mentioned St. Patrick’s Day as one of the holidays
when businesses desire to adorn their buildings with green lighting. St. Patrick’s Day has
currently been included in the Code. Mr. Prestwich stated that the information was derived
from one city with significant experience.

The list represents days when they perceive the highest demand for lighting, thereby limiting
the holiday period to those specific days. The 11:00 PM timing specified in the Code pertains
to exterior lighting, with exceptions outlined in the Code. Mr. Prestwich made a correction
and stated that any lighting on a commercial business within 100 feet of a residential
property, facing or oriented towards it, must be turned off by 11:00 PM or close of the
business.

Chair Matheson did not see Christmas on the list. Mr. Prestwich stated that Christmas and
Thanksgiving would fall under the November to January period and other holidays where
the lights could be on, would be restricted to the specific day itself and not a surrounding
period.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked that if somebody wanted to celebrate their business
anniversary, they would have to come and ask for approval on a date. Mr. Prestwich
reported that it would not be a request that comes from a business owner but it would be
executed by the City and the business would have to make a site plan amendment.

Commissioner Rushton asked if 9/11 would be an exceptional request that a business would
have to ask. Mr. Prestwich stated that they would not and it would be a City initiative to allow
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    16
April 11, 2024


lighting on a one-time event. Commissioner Rushton asked if after the Code is implemented
if a business that wants to extend its colored lighting outside the outlined window dates will
have to request an amendment to their site plan and if the Planning Commission would have
to specify which color is appropriate. Mr. Prestwich stated that for businesses that are not
recorded on their site plan, they would have to make an amendment request.

Commissioner Park asked if it would be more conducive and business-friendly to allow
businesses to display lighting as an advertisement a day or two surrounding the day of the
holiday. Mr. Prestwich agreed and stated that three days would be very reasonable. He
added that if it is included in the motion it does not need to be crafted to specifically reference
an allowance of three days before and one day after the holiday period.

Commissioner Cluff needed clarification whether they are going to be approving the specific
colors when the lighting is part of the site plan since they allowed and have the ability to
change it whenever desired. Mr. Prestwich stated that to some extent it would be at the
discretion of the Planning Commission and he would not recommend crafting the Code to
limit the shade of color. The application would include how the colors would look like and
lighting can be evaluated as part of the review.

Commissioner Cluff asked if they would approve a singular color as part of the site plan.
Mr. Prestwich stated that they would. He did not anticipate specification and stated that it
would be more of a question of the light’s intensity, its orientation if it is facing a residence
and the display. Another question was if there is a distinction between lighting being part of
a site plan and holiday lighting. The example given was if someone specifies in their site
plan that the lighting will be white on a daily basis but will change to green, pink, or any other
color based on holidays it would be considered as site plan lighting or holiday lighting.
Mr. Prestwich responded that it would become permanent lighting and become subject to
any conditions imposed by the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Cluff clarified that she was asking if the Commission approved a site plan
with white lighting and the business desires a different color lighting for Christmas, if they
need to amend their site plan to accommodate the change or if it is covered under the
Christmas Holiday. Mr. Prestwich stated that it would be included in the holiday period and
would be limited to specific days.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the City Council also reviews and modifies the Code after
the Planning Commission acts. Mr. Prestwich stated that the City Council had similar
concerns and after the Commission forwards a recommendation it goes back to the City
Council for final approval.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing.

Jake Tate from AWA Engineering reported that he has dealt with and worked in other
jurisdictions that define property lines and try to regulate lighting not going over a property
line. It is not defined well enough and applies to commercial properties and internal property
lines within parking lots. He did not object as long as it is written as an acceptable exception.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             17
April 11, 2024



There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Gilchrist moved that the Planning Commission RECOMMEND
ADOPTION of the Amendments to Sections 18.215.030(d) and 18.135.200 amending
and updating Riverton City standards related to outdoor commercial lighting subject
to the following additional modification:

      1.     Holiday lighting outside of the November to January period is to be
             extended three days prior to and one day after the designated holiday.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Rushton. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     "FREDDY'S FROZEN CUSTARD," THE VILLAGE AT SOUTH MOUNTAIN EAST
             LOT 2," PLZ-23-8012, A FINAL/DETAIL PLAN FOR A DRIVE-THROUGH
             RESTAURANT TO BE LOCATED IN THE SLR ZONE AT 13331 SOUTH OLD
             LIBERTY WAY. APPLICANT - LEE COX.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the request was for Freddy's
Frozen Custard. The approval letter from the SLR is also presented as they work under the
Master Development Agreement and the Suburban Land Specific Development District
Zoning. They are in the final steps in the process and we are considering the Detailed Plan
tonight. The application is to approve Village East. The Planning Commission has already
reviewed Quick Quack Car Wash, Dutch Bros, Raising Canes, and 7 Brew. The applicant
is requesting to locate on Lot 2. The private roads inside were approved as a Phase 1
Detailed Plan and are under construction. They had to fit some things into the plan because
of some large easements that dictated much of the design and layout. AWA was the
engineer for the Master Site and they prepared the Site Plan for Freddy's Frozen Custard
and were well aware of the easements and managed the site well.

Mr. Prestwich noted that Freddy’s and Raising Canes are the least impacted by the
easement. The lot is 3,000 square feet in size and faces the road per the SLR Master
Development Agreement. There is a single drive-thru lane that wraps around the building.
There is plenty of parking and they are over-parked by about four stalls. There is more than
10 feet of buffer between the sidewalk and the drive-thru. Shared improvements on the
south include a small patio with seating.

Mr. Prestwich mentioned that the applicant does not have to follow the same standards as
the SLR zoning. The applicant has everything needed to bring all of the restaurants close
together. The traffic will be rerouted up Old Liberty Way. The site relies on off-site
improvements and shared improvements and infrastructure were shown on the plans and
the previously approved Block Scale Plan and the Village at South Mountain East Phase 1
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
March 28, 2024


Code. Proposed amendments were put forward as a result. Mr. Lethbridge explained that
the current City ordinance is fairly simple and broad. It requires lighting to be shielded and
directed downward so that the light source is not visible from beyond the property line, which
is common.

At the request of the City Council, research was conducted. The conclusion was that the
lighting codes range from complicated and detailed to broad. The majority are fairly broad
and difficult to quantify. From looking at surrounding communities staff was able to identify
issues that were present in the Code was to be more specific about shielding in terms of the
source versus the light. The City ordinance references shielding the light source, which is
the bulb or lamp. That is very different from allowing no light to escape onto adjacent
property.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that many cities have limitations based on intensity. There are
different measurements and ways to specify how bright a light can be. There are also time
and date limitations. The question of temporary and holiday lighting and how and when it
can be displayed are not addressed in the Code. The draft better defines a fully shielded
fixture, how it looks, and how it will be measured and quantified. The proposed draft is
based on industry standards from other cities and better defines what a fully shielded fixture
is. It also addresses the light source, which shall not be visible from surrounding properties,
and helps with enforcement. There are exceptions for lighting that is below a certain level
of intensity such as security lighting and public event spaces. Specialized categories include
gas station canopies and flag illumination.

The issue of holiday lighting was intended to address businesses bringing in trim lighting.
Holiday lighting was defined. The current draft requires a Conditional Use Permit for holiday
lighting. The City Council did not feel that was appropriate or a good use of the
Commission’s time. While it is in the draft, the City Council did not support the idea of
requiring a Conditional Use Permit. With respect to the period of display, permanent lighting
needs to be approved as part of the Site Plan. Temporary lighting must be turned off by
11:00 PM and should not be on for more than 16 hours in a 24-hour period. If a business is
within 100 feet of a residential property the lights cannot flash or move and must be turned
off by 10:30 PM.

A point of discussion with the City Council was how to address and regulate lighting for
businesses that are adjacent to residential properties. The intent is to protect residential
properties. The 100-foot limitation would include buildings that are close enough for the
lighting to have a significant impact. Lights should be truly temporary and a list of approved
holidays that lights can be displayed should be provided. Mr. Lethbridge stated that more
businesses want to add permanent holiday displays with lights that are installed permanently
but not always on. He clarified that the issue before the Commission only pertains to
commercial lighting. While the proposed language does not address residential lighting,
there have been concerns from neighbors about the year-round use of holiday lights.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the City Council asked that the Commission address time of
day restrictions for lighting that is adjacent to residential. The current draft only includes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 9
March 28, 2024


time-of-day limitations relative to holiday or temporary lighting. It does not specify the time
the lights should be off for businesses that are adjacent within 100 feet of a residential
property. He stated that the shielding requirements should address the issues pertaining to
timing. The City Council was concerned that there ought to be a similar requirement that
specifies that non-essential lighting be turned off by a certain time for businesses adjacent
to or within 100 feet of residential properties. The Code should reflect the needs of the City
and enforce the Code. Feedback from the Commission was invited.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the request was the result of one business that has pending
enforcement action. Mr. Lethbridge confirmed that was the case and explained that one
specific business installed holiday lighting, which created an issue. Staff then realized that
no language in the Code addresses that type of lighting. It also became clear that the
standards need to be stricter with regard to the shielding of lighting. Commissioner Rushton
was concerned that every time there is a complaint they will have to write a new ordinance
to address it. He felt this was an issue the Commission needed to spend time on.
Mr. Lethbridge explained that the issue brought attention to the lack of standards. He tried
to avoid crafting the language so narrowly that it only solved one problem. He did not think
the proposed language introduces a lot of new requirements that will be onerous to business
owners. Rather, it allows them to add more clarity.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the new lighting requirements will potentially impact previously
approved site plans for commercial entities. Mr. Lethbridge explained that it will not apply
retroactively and is not dramatically different in the Code. When the ordinance is adopted,
the information will be provided to City businesses. Commissioner Cluff thought that
temporary lighting should be approved as part of a site plan if it is outside the November to
January window.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked what would prevent a business owner from doing what they
want with temporary lights after they have been approved as part of the site plan.
Mr. Lethbridge stated that they could look at how the standard could be expanded to restrict
the type of lighting or simulated motion.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked what regulations apply to electronic billboards. City Attorney,
Ryan Carter explained that there is a separate Code for billboards. He could not recall if
there is a specific lumen cap for billboards but there is a size limit. Commissioner Gilchrist
asked if there is a limitation on the motion and flashing of light. Mr. Carter explained that
the intent is to capture the attention of traffic, which also leads it away from intruding on
residential properties. The City has not received complaints and it is not an issue.

In response to a question raised by Chair Matheson, Mr. Lethbridge stated that the Code
specifies that lights should be off by 11:00 PM or when the business closes, whichever is
later. The total hours in one day are also limited to 16. Chair Matheson wanted to make
sure that under any circumstance lights are off by 11:00 PM. Mr. Lethbridge offered to look
at the specific language again. Commissioner Gilchrist commented that it may be
worthwhile to specifically address that if developers are planning to install lighting systems
that can change color and flag it in the site plan.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 10
March 28, 2024



Commissioner Cannon asked if residential lighting could also be addressed in the text
amendment. Mr. Lethbridge stated that residential lighting should be addressed separately
because residential uses differ in how they are approved and enforced.

Commissioner Rushton commented on enforcement and was of the understanding that the
City already has a way to address what is taking place. Mr. Lethbridge explained that there
is language that specifies that the light source shall not be visible from beyond the property
where the structure is located and lighting shall not project above or beyond the property
line. He considered that language to be overly broad and is not a clear standard to enforce.
The intent of the ordinance is to provide clear tools to address situations that occur in the
future.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission CONTINUE PLZ-24-5001,
the Code Text Amendment to the next Planning Commission Meeting. The motion
was seconded by Commissioner Cannon. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

       A.     MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 23, PLZ-23-8021, A FINAL/DETAILED PLAN IN THE
              SLR ZONE. APPLICANT - EDGE HOMES.

Mr. Prestwich reported that staff has been working with Mountain Ridge for the last three
years. What is being addressed are the last two phases of the West Block Scale Plan. The
property is in the SLR zone in the southern part of the City and shares a border with
Herriman. It follows the three-step review process. The plans for a signal at 13800 South
were in place and it should be constructed soon. The Block Scale Plan that was approved
covers Phases 17 through 24. The single-family detached lots are 6,800 to 7,500 square
feet in size. Most of the lots are located along the perimeter and are serviced by slip lanes.
The interior and larger public roads were identified. Slip lanes will service the lots that face
the road. Staff recommended approval with the conditions enumerated in the Staff Report.
Mr. Prestwich clarified that occupancy of the units will not be allowed until 13800 South is
completed. The connection was identified and it was approved as part of the Master
Development Agreement with SLR in 2015-2016. Staff was anxious for the connection to
be made.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked if 13800 South will have to be completed to the canal. Mr.
Prestwich responded that it will be complicated to Sentinel Way in terms of access. He
suggested that that clarification be added to the motion. Commissioner Gilchrist also
commented on private roads and fire turnaround access requirements. He asked if the
current driveway configuration has been reviewed by the Unified Fire Authority (“UFA”) since
it differs from what is normally seen. Mr. Prestwich agreed and stated that the slip lanes
have a different configuration. He confirmed that what is proposed has been reviewed by
UFA.
