CERTIFIED MAIL                                    IN REPLY REFER TO:
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED                          115-I

May 19, 2021

The Honorable Trent Staggs                        Community:           City of Riverton,
Mayor, City of Riverton                                                Salt Lake County,
12830 South Redwood Road                                               Utah
Riverton, Utah 84065                              Community No.:       490104
                                                  Map Panels Affected: See FIRM Index


Dear Mayor Staggs:

On February 26, 2020, you were notified of proposed modified flood hazard determinations affecting the
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report for Salt Lake County, Utah
and Incorporated Areas. The statutory 90-day appeal period that was initiated on March 11, 2020, when
the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) published a
notice of the proposed flood hazard determinations for your community in the Salt Lake Tribune, has
elapsed.

FEMA received no valid requests for changes in the proposed flood hazard determinations. Therefore, the
determination of the Agency as to the flood hazard information for your community is considered final.
FEMA will publish a notice of final flood hazard determinations in the Federal Register as soon as
possible. The modified flood hazard information and revised map panels for your community will be
effective as of November 19, 2021 and will revise the FIRM that was in effect prior to that date. For
insurance rating purposes, the community number and new suffix code for the panels being revised are
indicated above and on the maps and must be used for all new policies and renewals. Final printed copies
of the report and maps will be mailed to you before the effective date.

The modifications are pursuant to Section 206 of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973
(Public Law 93-234) and are in accordance with the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended
(Title XIII of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, Public Law 90-448),
42 U.S.C. 4001-4128, and 44 CFR Part 65. Because of the modifications to the FIRM and FIS report for
your community made by this map revision, certain additional requirements must be met under Section
1361 of the 1968 Act, as amended, within 6 months from the date of this letter. Prior to
November 19, 2021, your community is required, as a condition of continued eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), to adopt or show evidence of adoption of floodplain management
regulations that meet the standards of Paragraph 60.3(d) of the NFIP regulations. These standards are the
minimum requirements and do not supersede any State or local requirements of a more stringent nature.

It must be emphasized that all the standards specified in Paragraph 60.3(d) of the NFIP regulations must
be enacted in a legally enforceable document. This includes the adoption of the effective FIRM and FIS
report to which the regulations apply and the modifications made by this map revision. Some of the
standards should already have been enacted by your community. Any additional requirements can be met
by taking one of the following actions:
2


    1. Amending existing regulations to incorporate any additional requirements of Paragraph 60.3(d);

    2. Adopting all the standards of Paragraph 60.3(d) into one new, comprehensive set of regulations;
       or

    3. Showing evidence that regulations have previously been adopted that meet or exceed the
       minimum requirements of Paragraph 60.3(d).

Communities that fail to enact the necessary floodplain management regulations will be suspended from
participation in the NFIP and subject to the prohibitions contained in Section 202(a) of the 1973 Act as
amended.

A Consultation Coordination Officer (CCO) has been designated to assist your community with any
difficulties you may be encountering in enacting the floodplain management regulations. The CCO will
be the primary liaison between your community and FEMA. For information about your CCO, please
contact:

                                         Ms. Jeanine Petterson
                                      Director, Mitigation Division
                                          FEMA, Region VIII
                                   Denver Federal Center, Building 710
                                            P.O. Box 25267
                                     Denver, Colorado 80225-0267
                                             (303) 235-4830

To assist your community in maintaining the FIRM, we have enclosed a Summary of Map Actions
(SOMA) to document previous Letter of Map Change (LOMC) actions (i.e., Letters of Map Amendment
[LOMAs], Letters of Map Revision [LOMRs]) that will be superseded when the revised FIRM panels
referenced above become effective. Information on LOMCs is presented in the following four categories:
(1) LOMCs for which results have been included on the revised FIRM panels; (2) LOMCs for which
results could not be shown on the revised FIRM panels because of scale limitations or because the LOMC
issued had determined that the lots or structures involved were outside the Special Flood Hazard Area as
shown on the FIRM; (3) LOMCs for which results have not been included on the revised FIRM panels
because the flood hazard information on which the original determinations were based are being
superseded by new flood hazard information; and (4) LOMCs issued for multiple lots or structures where
the determination for one or more of the lots or structures cannot be revalidated through an administrative
process like the LOMCs in Category 2 above. LOMCs in Category 2 will be revalidated through a single
letter that reaffirms the validity of a previously issued LOMC; the letter will be sent to your community
shortly before the effective date of the revised FIRM and will become effective 1 day after the revised
FIRM becomes effective. For the LOMCs listed in Category 4, we will review the data previously
submitted for the LOMA or LOMR request and issue a new determination for the affected properties after
the revised FIRM becomes effective.

The FIRM panels have been computer-generated. Once the FIRM and FIS report are printed and
distributed, the digital files containing the flood hazard data for the entire county can be provided to your
community for use in a computer mapping system. These files can be used in conjunction with other
thematic data for floodplain management purposes, insurance purchase and rating requirements, and
many other planning applications. Copies of the digital files or paper copies of the FIRM panels may be
obtained by calling our FEMA Mapping and Insurance eXchange (FMIX), toll free, at 1-877 FEMA MAP
3

(1-877-336-2627). In addition, your community may be eligible for additional credits under our
Community Rating System if you implement your activities using digital mapping files.

If you have any questions regarding the necessary floodplain management measures for your community
or the NFIP in general, we urge you to call the Director, Mitigation Division of FEMA Region 8, in
Denver, Colorado at (303) 235-4830 for assistance. If you have any questions concerning mapping issues
in general, please call our FMIX at the toll free number shown above. Additional information and
resources your community may find helpful regarding the NFIP and floodplain management, such as The
National Flood Insurance Program Code of Federal Regulations, Answers to Questions About the
National Flood Insurance Program, Frequently Asked Questions Regarding the Effects that Revised
Flood Hazards have on Existing Structures, Use of Flood Insurance Study (FIS) Data as Available Data,
and National Flood Insurance Program Elevation Certificate and Instructions, can be found on our
website at https://www.fema.gov/flood-maps/change-your-flood-zone/letter-final-determination. Paper
copies of these documents may also be obtained by calling our FMIX.

                                               Sincerely,




                                               Luis Rodriguez, P.E., Director
                                               Engineering and Modeling Division
                                               Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration

Enclosure:
  Final SOMA

cc:   Community Map Repository
      Mr. Tom Beesley, Stormwater Manager, City of Riverton
