                            MEMORANDUM
To:            Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:          Planning Department
Date:          December 3, 2024
Subject:       Ordinance 24-27, Roberts Rezone,” Rezone of approximately 0.91-acres
               located at 4191 West 13400 South from R-1 (Residential 1-acre min) to C-R
               (Regional Commercial). Applicant- Jay and Shelly Roberts


On November 14, 2024, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this rezone
application. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted
to recommend approval, with the following recommended motion:

I move City Council APPROVE Ordinance #24-27, the “Roberts Rezone,” rezoning a 0.91-
acre parcel located at 4191 West 13400 South to from R-1 to C-R (Regional Commercial).

Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicants, Jay and Shelly
Roberts, for about 0.91-acres located at 4191 West 13400 South. The property is currently
zoned R-1 which is a single-family residential zone with minimum lot size of 1-acre, the
requested zone is C-R which is Regional Commercial. The General Plan designation for this
property is Professional Office.

The subject parcel is a rectangularly-shaped property just under an acre in size, located on the
south side of 13400 South. Rose Creek runs along the south of the property and SLR property
borders it on the west.

The Roberts Property is the last of several similar properties to request a rezone. Most of the
other properties were rezoned in 2008, and one more was rezoned in 2023. This rezone
request matches what the city has done on all the similarly situated properties and will make the
area have consistent zoning. Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this
site and posted on the City’s webpage. No public comments have been received, and none
were offered during the Planning Commission’s public hearing.

The Planning Commission has forwarded this application to the Council with a recommendation
of approval.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1. Area Maps and Materials
       2. Planning Commission minutes
                                                      Old Liberty Way
   Mtn View Village




                                  The Village at
                                 South Mountain

        13400 South




                      Subject
                      Property



                                              South Hills




                                                                        4000 West
                                             Middle School




rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
Area Zoning – Applicant Parcel is R-1




rivertonutah.gov
Area General Plan: Professional Office




rivertonutah.gov
Proposed Zoning:
R-1 to C-R




rivertonutah.gov
PC Minutes
                      RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               MEETING MINUTES
                              NOVEMBER 14, 2024

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in
the Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Evan Matheson, Chair                             Lisa Halverson, City Planner
Monique Beck                                     Matt Cassel, City Engineer
Gary Cannon                                      Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Shelly Cluff                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Crystal Keele
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.            CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Evan Matheson called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 PM.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     “ROBERTS REZONE”, PLZ-24-4007, AN APPLICATION FOR A
              REZONE OF APPROXIMATELY .91 ACRES LOCATED AT 4191 WEST
              13400 SOUTH FROM R-1 (RESIDENTIAL ONE-ACRE LOTS) TO C-R
              (REGIONAL COMMERCIAL).    APPLICANT – JAY AND SHELLY
              ROBERTS

City Planner, Lisa Halverson presented the Staff Report and stated that the subject
property was the last parcel in that area of 13400 South to rezone from R-1 to C-R. Most
of the other properties were rezoned in 2007 and 2008, and the last was rezoned in 2023.
The Roberts request matched what the City previously approved for other similarly
situated properties and would create consistent zoning in the area and bring it into
compliance with the General Plan. Ms. Halverson reported that no plans had been
submitted for the parcel, but a Site Plan would likely be submitted for Planning
Commission review within the next few months.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property and
posted on the City’s website. No public comments were received. New notices would be
sent once the item was added to a City Council meeting agenda.

The applicant, Shelly Roberts, stated that theirs is the last property on the street that is
zoned residential, and they are now considering a commercial use for the property.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
November 14, 2024


Chair Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Beck moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-24-4007, “Roberts Rezone,” by rezoning a 0.91-acre
parcel located at 4191 West 13400 South to C-R (Regional Commercial).
Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      B.     “PALAEZ REZONE,” PLZ-24-4006, AN APPLICATION FOR A
             GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT AND A REZONE OF APPROXIMATELY
             .96-ACRES LOCATED AT 3516 WEST 12600 SOUTH FROM R-1
             (RESIDENTIAL ONE-ACRE LOTS) TO C-G (GATEWAY COMMERCIAL)
             AND THE GENERAL PLAN DESIGNATION CHANGED FROM ESTATE
             DENSITY RESIDENTIAL TO COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL. APPLICANT
             – DANIEL PELAEZ.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and displayed an aerial view of
the property. South of the subject property is the future America First Credit Union site.
All properties to the north are zoned R-1 and have a General Plan designation of Estate
Density Residential, 0.5-acre lots or greater with animal rights. The zoning designation
specifies what can be done with a property, and the General Plan gives notice that the
City may consider a different use for it. In the past, Riverton has opted to change the
General Plan designation on a property and then let property owners make the change
when they are ready. Mr. Prestwich referenced the Roberts rezoning and indicated that
the General Plan designation for that area was changed in the early 2000s, and then
property owners requested rezoning of their parcels as needed. In this case, the General
Plan still designates the area as Estate Density Residential. However, the subject
property is on a major roadway and in the vicinity of commercial property.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the property and posted on
the City’s website. Comments were received from 67 residents, all in opposition to the
request.

The General Plan and Zoning Map were reviewed. If the zoning were changed, the
applicant would be required to submit a Site Plan for consideration at a public Planning
Commission hearing. A six or eight-foot masonry fence would be required on either side
of the property. The applicant has indicated that they would like to open a heating and
air conditioning business, but Mr. Prestwich reminded the Commission that anything
allowed in the zone could be built on the parcel. The Planning Commission’s options
were discussed, including recommending approval, denial, or a different option such as
recommending that the City Council consider re-designating the entire area.

In response to a question from Commissioner Park, Mr. Prestwich stated there are
commercial properties in the area, but all adjacent parcels are residential.
