                           MEMORANDUM
To:           Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:         Planning Department
Date:         February 4, 2025
Subject:      Ordinance 25-05, “Joseph White Text Amendment,” Proposed Amendment
              to Section 18.90.010, “Table of Commercial Uses” to allow for a “Reception
              Center” as a Conditional Use in the C-N Zone. Applicant- Joseph White.


On January 9, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider this text
amendment application. Minutes from that meeting are provided below. The Commission at
that hearing voted to recommend denial of the proposed text amendment. The Commission
recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council DENY Ordinance 25-05, Joseph White Text Amendment” proposed
amendment to the Riverton City Table of Commercial Uses such that the category
“Reception Center” becomes Conditional in the Commercial Neighborhood (C-N) Zone.

Background

This is a public hearing for a requested Zoning Text Change to Chapter 18.90 of the Riverton
City Code. This application was brought by a property owner who owns property in Riverton
City which is zoned C-N (Commercial Neighborhood).

The applicant is requesting a change to the City’s Table of Commercial Uses found in Chapter
18.90 of Riverton City Code. The table lists several commercial uses and designates these
uses as P- Permitted, C- Conditional, or NP- Not Permitted. One of the uses listed is
“Reception Center” as shown below:




Where the land use “Reception Center” is a Conditional Use in the C-G and C-D zones, Not
Permitted in the C-N and C-PO zones and Permitted in the C-R and PCC zones.

The applicant is a requesting the Table of Commercial Uses be modified to make “Reception
Center” a Conditional Use in the C-N Zone, like this:
Unlike a rezone which changes the zoning of a specific property, changing the Table of Uses
applies to all the properties in the City with that zoning. In this case, all property zoned C-N
could apply for a Conditional Use to have a Reception Center.
The Purpose of the Neighborhood Commercial Zone is explained in Riverton City Code
18.75.010:


         18.75.010 Purpose.
         The commercial neighborhood (C-N) zone is established to provide an area in which
         the primary use of the land is for commercial and service uses that will accommodate
         the daily convenience needs of the surrounding residential neighborhoods. The zone
         is intended to be located within, and integrated into, the residential neighborhoods in a
         manner that will create a minimum of detriment, hazard, or inconvenience to
         surrounding residential areas. Each commercial neighborhood use shall be within
         convenient walking distance from the surrounding residential area and shall encourage
         and accommodate for pedestrian access.

         The intent of the C-N zone is to encourage compatible neighborhood market uses to
         be incorporated within a neighborhood so as to discourage residents from having to
         drive into the commercial centers for day-to-day necessities. Permitted and conditional
         uses within this zone are identified under RCC 18.90.010.

The Planning Commission, in their review of this application, voted to recommend denial of the text
amendment. In their action on this item, the Commission included a recommendation that the
applicant’s property be rezoned to Commercial Gateway, which does allow for reception centers, but
that action is outside the scope of this application.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Zone Text Change Application.
       2.   Chapter 18.90 “Table of Commercial Uses”.
       3.   Chapter 18.75 “Neighborhood Commercial”.
       4.   Minutes from the January 9, 2025 Planning Commission Meeting
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  4
January 9, 2025



Mr. Prestwich reported that the applicant was unable to attend the meeting but provided an
email clarifying that no materials testing, sampling, or storage would occur at this location.
It will be used as administrative office space only. The proposed elevations were reviewed.
There is a daycare at the front of the building and the applicant’s office will be to the rear.
The business has one vehicle. No additional impacts were identified by Staff. Staff
recommended approval subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report.

Mr. Prestwich reported that some questions were received in response to the public notice
but no objections or other comments were submitted.

Commissioner Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The
public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE a
Conditional Use Permit for PLZ-24-2044, “Far West Environmental”, to be located at
12166 South Redwood Road, subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.     No exterior modifications to the existing building.

       2.     No outside storage except for work-related vehicles.

       3.     No material testing is to be conducted on-site.

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       C.     JOSEPH WHITE CODE TEXT AMENDMENT, PLZ-24-5006, AN
              APPLICATION REQUESTING A CHANGE TO THE RIVERTON CITY
              TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES TO MAKE “RECEPTION CENTERS” A
              CONDITIONAL USE IN THE COMMERCIAL NEIGHBORHOOD (C-N)
              ZONE. APPLICANT – JOSEPH WHITE.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that this is a legislative item that will go
before the City Council for a final decision. The Amendment is similar to a rezone in that
the Planning Commission would make a recommendation based on a reasonably debatable
argument for making the change, and the City Council would consider the Commission’s
recommendation and feedback in its decision.

The applicant, Joseph White, operates Wasatch Arts School and would like to expand the
use into a neighboring space. However, the use would be classified as a “Reception
Center”, and reception centers are not permitted in the C-N Zone. The request was to
amend the Table of Commercial Uses to include Reception Centers as a Conditional Use,
which would apply to all properties in the zone. An aerial map of the property was displayed
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 5
January 9, 2025


and Mr. Prestwich identified properties in the City that would be impacted by the
amendment. He noted that C-N is both the most restrictive and least applied zone in
Riverton.

Mr. Prestwich reported that when someone approaches the City about a potential use, Staff
first checks zoning for compatibility and then reviews the Table of Uses to determine if the
use is permitted, conditional, or not permitted. If permitted, they move to the Site Plan or
Business License process. If it is a Conditional Use, Staff must determine if they can
approve the use or if it needs to go before the Planning Commission. Uses identified as
non-permitted require consideration of a Zoning Text Amendment.

City Code §18.75.010 defines the purpose of the C-N Zone and states that its intention is to
blend in with surrounding neighborhoods. The Table of Uses identifies reception centers as
a Conditional Use in the Commercial Downtown (“C-D”) and Gateway Commercial (“C-G”)
zones, not permitted in C-N or Commercial Professional Office (“C-PO”), and permitted in
Commercial Regional (“C-R”) and Planned Commercial Center (“PCC”). The C-R and PCC
Zones are the City’s most permissive zones and are located near Bangerter Highway. C-D
and C-D Zones are in downtown Riverton and along the edges of the City.

Mr. Prestwich reported that because the request was for a Zoning Text Amendment that
would impact the entire City, notices were posted on the City's website but not mailed to
individual property owners. No comments were received.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, it was clarified that there is one
reception center in Riverton as well as a reception area at Jim’s Family Restaurant that can
accommodate large groups.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the applicant would be required to return with a Site Plan
or Business Plan if the amendment was approved. Mr. Prestwich clarified that a Conditional
Use Permit application would be required to address impacts created by the business. City
Attorney, Ryan Carter, reminded the Commission that Conditional Uses must be approved
unless those impacts cannot be mitigated, or specific conditions cannot be met.
Mr. Prestwich added that a Site Plan would also be required if any changes were proposed
to the parking lot or exterior of the building. In response to a follow-up question, Mr. Carter
stated that it would be plausible that alcohol could be allowed for specific events but he did
not believe they would be eligible for a permanent permit. The State issues those permits.

Commissioner Cannon stated that he has dealt with this issue in other cities. The property
in question has ample parking. However, if a similar business does not have sufficient
parking and on-street parking is to be utilized, that could be a challenge.

Mr. Prestwich reported that, per City Code, “The intent of the C-N Zone is to encourage
compatible neighborhood market uses to be incorporated within a neighborhood so as to
discourage residents from having to drive into the commercial centers for day-to-day
necessities. Permitted and conditional uses within this zone are identified under RCC §
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               6
January 9, 2025


18.90.10.” He noted that some C-N properties are on larger roadways like Redwood Road
and 12600 South that have grown over time and are no longer convenient to neighborhoods.

Commissioner Knudsen asked about the motivation behind changing the Table of Uses
rather than rezoning the property. Mr. Carter stated that the applicant has discretion as to
the type of application they file, and that question should be posed to Mr. White.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich reported that the area is
designated Community Commercial in the General Plan.

Chair Matheson asked about the unforeseen consequences of approval. Mr. Carter stated
that the Planning Commission does not have the discretion to decide if a Conditional Use is
appropriate once that use is included in the Table of Uses. Mr. Prestwich expressed concern
about blurring the lines between zones. The C-N Zone has a particular definition and use.
If they want the zones to be distinct tools that apply to different areas, then they need to
keep those lines in place.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff regarding restrictions that could be
placed on the use regarding things like parking or fencing, Mr. Prestwich stated that the
applicant would be required to meet the parking requirements, and an eight-foot masonry
wall would be required to separate the property from residential zones. Many properties in
the C-N Zone are smaller parcels that would not be suitable for a reception center. Mr.
Carter added that if someone applied for a reception center but did not have the minimum
number of required parking spaces, the matter would not come before the Planning
Commission for a Conditional Use Permit because it would not meet the required minimum
standards. If the applicant proposed a shared parking arrangement, the matter would be
reviewed by the Commission.

Mr. Prestwich reviewed the Parking Ordinance and reported that one parking space is
required per 175 square feet of floor space for public assembly, and one space per 250
square feet for dance halls or skating rinks. Reception centers are not specified in the City
Code, but it would likely fall within that range.

Commissioner Cannon stated that it is a unique situation where parking is not a challenge.
The subject property has ample parking and Mr. White owns other properties in the area
that could be used for overflow parking. He suggested that they consider what the use could
look like on other properties in the C-N Zone.

Chair Matheson asked if a reception center is allowed as a Conditional Use in a more
residential area and if restrictions could be imposed regarding closing time or other issues.
Mr. Carter stated that it would be possible to impose such conditions, but the Commission
should consider if the use is harmonious with the area. A reception center will create some
degree of noise. They can impose restrictions to attempt to mitigate that noise, but they
cannot squelch it. Chair Matheson noted that the use would be harmonious for Mr. White’s
property, but likely not for other properties in the C-N Zone.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
January 9, 2025


The applicant, Joseph White, stated that he understood the discussion regarding how the
Text Amendment could affect other areas of the City, but if a property did not meet specific
requirements for a Conditional Use, it would not even be brought before the Commission.
He believed that the C-N Zone had protections that would void some of those issues. He
noted that the C-N Zone includes restrictions on hours of operation for commercial uses
within 250 feet of residentially zoned districts. Changing the zone would require them to
bring the structure into compliance with current City Code, and it is an old building that would
require a lot of work. He noted that the only other zone the property would qualify for is C-
G, and a reception center would still be a Conditional Use in that zone He believes the C-N
Zone offers enough protections and pointed out that it only applies to five areas of the City.
He has a shared parking agreement allowing overflow parking on his other properties.

In response to a question, Mr. Carter clarified that Mr. White would be required to comply
with things like ADA access regardless of the zone, and those items would be addressed
with the Building Permit application. Any renovations would be required to meet modern
standards. Mr. Prestwich stated that zoning does not affect site or structural requirements,
only use. Mr. White stated that the events center space is up to date, but he believed that
the dance studio, which occupies the remaining two-thirds of the building, would have to be
renovated if the property was rezoned. Mr. Carter clarified that rezoning would not affect
the dance studio unless or until changes were made to that portion of the building. If the
Planning Commission preferred that the zone be changed to C-G, that would add additional
allowed uses in the building, but it would neither lessen nor increase requirements for the
building itself.

Commissioner Knudsen stated that his preference was that the property be rezoned to C-
G. Commissioner Rushton asked if rezoning would trigger the requirement for an eight-foot
wall between the property and adjacent residential property. It was reported that the fencing
requirement has already been met. If the Conditional Use was allowed in the C-N Zone,
Mr. White would still need to return with a Site Plan.

Mr. White stated that he did not understand why there was a concern over changing the
Table of Uses if all Conditional Uses would require approval. Mr. Carter clarified that the
question before the Planning Commission and City Council was whether the use was an
appropriate use for the C-N Zone, not for this particular property.

Chair Matheson stated that he believed the Commissioners agreed a reception center would
be a good use for the site, but they were concerned about adding the use to the Table of
Uses for the C-N Zone. They believed rezoning the property to C-G would be a more
suitable solution. Mr. Prestwich clarified that the Planning Commission could not
recommend rezoning in this action because their response must be based on the
application.

Mr. Carter stated that Mr. White could submit a rezoning application, and the Planning
Commission had already discussed and indicated a potential outcome of that application.
However, residents of the adjoining neighborhood would receive notice of the application,
whereas they were not individually notified of the current application. Mr. Prestwich
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  8
January 9, 2025


suggested that the Planning Commission make a recommendation based on the application
before them, and the applicant could then decide how to proceed. If Mr. White chose to
pursue a rezoning application, there would be additional fees associated with it.

Commissioner Cluff commented that she lives near the new private school, and she can
envision some of the parcels in that area becoming C-N. That is a much different feel from
Redwood Road, and she would not want an events center in that area even if it met all
requirements for a Conditional Use. She did not believe the built-in conditions would
address all concerns. She agreed that an events center is a great use for Mr. White’s space,
but she believes the property should be rezoned to C-G and the C-N Zone should be
reserved for more appropriate parcels.

Commissioner Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The
public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton agreed with Commissioner Cluff. He reported that the Jordanelle
Reception Center occasionally had events with overwhelming volume. It can be hard for
that type of business to have an idea of how many people will attend, and he can see the
danger of that affecting nearby neighborhoods. He did not believe the C-N Zone should
allow reception centers. If a property owner believes their property is suitable for a reception
center, they should request rezoning to an appropriate zone. Commissioner Cannon
appreciated Commissioner Rushton’s comparison, but he believed Mr. White’s reception
center would appeal to a different clientele than Jordanelle.

Chair Matheson reported that Mr. White is a personal friend. He believes the reception
center would be a great use for the property, but he agreed with his fellow Commissioners
that it should not be a Conditional Use in the C-N Zone. He believes the property should be
rezoned.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL of
Application PLZ-24-5006, “Joseph White Text Amendment”, thus keeping the existing
Table of Uses and recommending that the property be considered for rezone to
Commercial Gateway (C-G). Commissioner Knudsen seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

       D.     HISTORIC SITES ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT, PLZ-25-5001,
              AMENDING SECTION 18.63.040, RIVERTON HISTORIC SITES LIST,
              REGULATING MINIMUM AGE OF POTENTIAL SITES AND DESIGNATION

Mr. Carter reported that the Text Amendment was being brought before the Planning
Commission out of an abundance of caution. Although the issue is unrelated to Land Use,
the Historic Preservation Commission Ordinance is in Title 18 of Riverton City Code and
everything within Title 18 is brought before the Planning Commission. The Historical
Commission was created approximately 10 years previously to inventory Riverton City’s
older structures and encourage property owners to work toward preserving those structures.
The structures would then be celebrated and identified on the Historic Registry. The current
