EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
                      EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

Section 1: Term                                             1
Section 2: Duties and Authority                             2
Section 3: Compensation                                     2
Section 4: Health, Disability and Life Insurance Benefits   2
Section 5: Vacation, Sick, and Military Leave               3
Section 6: Phone Allowance                                  3
Section 7: Retirement                                       3
Section 8: General Business Expenses                        3
Section 9: Termination                                      4
Section 10: Severance                                       6
Section 11: Resignation                                     6
Section 12: Performance Evaluation                          6
Section 13: Hours of Work                                   6
Section 14: Outside Activities                              7
Section 15: Indemnification                                 7
Section 16: Bonding                                         8
Section 17: Other Terms and Conditions of Employment        8
Section 18: Notices                                         8
Section 19: General Provisions                              8
                         EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
       This Employment Agreement (“Agreement”) is made and entered into this _____
day of ______________, 2020, by and between Riverton City Corporation, a Utah
Municipal Corporation (the “City”), and Mr. David R. Brickey (“Mr. Brickey” or
“Employee”), an individual who has education, training and experience in local
government management.

                                      RECITALS

   A. The City desires to enter into an employment agreement with Mr. Brickey
      whereby he will serve the City as the City Manager of Riverton City, as provided
      by Title 2, Chapter 15 of the Riverton City Code, and in accord with Riverton
      City’s employment description with the office of City Manager.

   B. The City’s Governing Body, including the City Mayor, desires to establish by
      execution of this Agreement the City Manager’s employment salary, benefits, and
      establish certain terms and conditions of employment in a manner consistent with
      Riverton City Code and the associated employment description for the City
      Manager.

   C. The City’s Governing Body desires to (1) secure and retain the services of the
      City Manager and to provide inducement for him to remain in such employment;
      (2) to make possible full work productivity by assuring the City Manager’s morale
      and peace of mind with respect to future security; and (3) to provide a just means
      for terminating the City Manager’s services at such time as he may be unable to
      fully discharge his duties or when the City may otherwise desire to terminate his
      employment; and

       WHEREAS, the Employee desires to commence employment as City Manager of
said Riverton City;

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained,
the parties hereby agree as follows:

                                    AGREEMENT

Section 1: Term

This Agreement shall become effective on the date it is approved and executed by all
parties hereto. Employee shall report to work no later than May 11, 2020 and shall
receive full compensation and benefits described in this agreement beginning on this
date. In the event the parties fail to execute this agreement by May 19, 2020 Employee
shall receive his salary and benefits until May 19, but shall accrue no additional
compensation or benefits following May 19. Failure to execute this Agreement by May
19, 2020 shall not constitute a termination of employment under this Agreement and
employee shall not be entitled to severance benefits described under this Agreement,


                                           1
Riverton City Employment Agreement
David R. Brickey, May 19, 2020

rather this Agreement shall be deemed null and void by the City and Mr. Brickey. This
Agreement shall expire upon the sooner of: 1) May 11, 2025 at 5:00 pm; 2) Termination
according to Section 9; or 3) Resignation according to Section 11.

Section 2: Duties and Authority

The City agrees to employ Mr. Brickey as City Manager to perform the functions and
duties specified in the City Manager Job Description and Title 2, Chapter 15 of the
Riverton City Code, and to perform other legally permissible and proper duties and
functions as the Council shall, from time to time assign. The Employee shall serve as
the Chief Administrative Officer of Riverton City and shall be responsible for overseeing
the day-to-day operations of all City departments. All City employees, including
department heads, shall be responsible to the City Manager.

To facilitate the orderly and efficient implementation of City objectives and policy, the
City Council agrees to a principle of noninterference in the Employee’s administration of
City operations. The City Council agrees and will ensure that individual Directors direct
their business related concerns and communications through the Employee or those he
expressly designates to liaison with the City Council. Employee agrees that such
restriction does not apply to those within the City who already possess direct reporting
responsibilities to the City Council such as the City Attorney, City Treasurer,
Administrative Services Director, or potential internal auditors. This provision will not
prevent the City Council from engaging in non-disruptive or casual communication with
City directors or employees in the performance of their respective duties. Requests for
information which require any significant amount of time to produce must be approved
by the Employee. Employee shall advise the Mayor and Council on matters of policy,
procedure, operations, and business affecting the City.

Section 3: Compensation

   A. Base Salary: The City agrees to pay Employee an annual base salary of One
      Hundred Seventy-five Thousand Dollars and 00 cents ($175,000.00), or an
      hourly rate of $84.14, less federal and state withholdings and other standard
      employee deductions, and payable in installments in accordance with the usual
      payroll practice of the City at the same time that the other management
      employees of the City are paid. Employee’s salary begins to accrue no sooner
      than Employee’s first day in which he reports to work.

   B. This Agreement shall be automatically amended to reflect any salary adjustments
      that are provided or required by the City's compensation policies, i.e.,
      performance pay, market adjustments, cost of living adjustments, etc. Foregoing
      notwithstanding, Employee is not eligible to receive any increase to salary before
      July 1, 2021.


Section 4: Health, Disability and Life Insurance Benefits

   A. The City agrees to provide and to pay the premiums for health, dental, life and
      vision insurance for the Employee and his/her dependents equal to that which is

                                            2
Riverton City Employment Agreement
David R. Brickey, May 19, 2020

      provided to all other employees of the City.

   B. The City agrees to put into force and to make required premium payments for
      long term disability coverage and additional life insurance for the Employee, in an
      amount equal to that which is provided to all other employees of the City.

Section 5: Vacation, Sick, and Military Leave

   A. Upon commencing employment, the Employee shall commence with a vacation
      bank of 10 days (80 hours) and a sick bank of 5 days (40 hours). Beginning on
      the effective date of this Agreement, Employee shall be designated as a level 2
      employee for purposes of calculating leave benefits under the Riverton City
      Employee Policies and Procedures Manual. Employee shall accrue sick and
      vacation leave on an annual basis at the rate provided to any other employees in
      accordance with established policy and procedure.

   B. The Employee is entitled to accrue all unused leave according to established
      policy and procedure. In the event the Employee’s employment is terminated,
      either with or without cause as described in Section 9, the Employee shall be
      compensated for all accrued vacation time to date of termination.

   C. The Employee shall be entitled to military reserve leave time pursuant to state
      law and the City’s policy.

Section 6: Phone Allowance

The City will provide Employee with a cellular telephone allowance in an amount
consistent with current City Policies.

Section 7: Retirement

Subject to URS guidelines, the City agrees to enroll the Employee in the Utah
Retirement System (URS) and to make all the appropriate contributions on the
Employee’s behalf upon the Employee’s request. City shall require Employee’s
assistance to determine whether Employee qualifies as a tier 1 or tier 2 employee under
URS guidelines, and Employee agrees to cooperate with City to ensure Employee is
properly enrolled. Again subject to URS guidelines, the Employee may at his sole
discretion opt out of URS, in which case the City agrees to make a contribution to a 401
(k) account of the Employee’s choosing in an amount equal to the URS contribution that
would have otherwise been made by the City.


Section 8: General Business Expenses

   A. The City agrees to budget for and to pay for professional dues and subscriptions
      of the Employee necessary for continuation and full participation in national,
      regional, state, and local associations, and organizations necessary and
      desirable for the Employee’s continued professional participation, growth, and
      advancement, and for the good of the City. An example of such associations

                                           3
Riverton City Employment Agreement
David R. Brickey, May 19, 2020

      shall include the “Utah City/County Management Association” and the Utah State
      Bar.

   B. The City agrees to budget for and to pay for travel and subsistence expenses of
      Employee for professional and official travel, meetings, and occasions to
      adequately continue the professional development of Employee and to pursue
      necessary official functions for the City, including but not limited to the Utah City
      Management Association conferences, the Utah League of Cities and Towns
      conventions, and such other national, regional, state, and local governmental
      groups and committees in which Employee serves as a member.

   C. The City also agrees to budget for and to pay for travel and subsistence
      expenses of Employee for short courses, institutes, and seminars that are
      necessary for the Employee’s professional development and for the good of the
      City.

   D. The City recognizes that certain expenses of a non-personal but job-related
      nature are incurred by Employee, and agrees to reimburse or to pay said general
      expenses. The Finance Division is authorized to disburse such moneys upon
      receipt of duly executed expense or petty cash vouchers, receipts, statements or
      personal affidavits.

   E. The City acknowledges the value of having Employee participate and be directly
      involved in local civic clubs or organizations that may benefit the City.
      Accordingly, the City shall pay for the reasonable membership fees and/or dues
      to enable the Employee to become an active member in local civic clubs or
      organizations, wherein such membership may be of benefit to the City.

   F. The City shall provide Employee with a computer, software, and other necessary
      equipment required for the Employee to perform the job and to maintain
      communication.

Section 9: Termination

Employee is an “at-will” employee of the City, whose employment may be terminated at
any time with or without cause by the Governing Body of the City. Employee’s base
salary pay shall be discontinued upon termination without additional compensation
owed to Employee, other than for hours worked and unpaid up to the date of
termination. Additional compensation due employee upon termination, if any, shall be
limited to severance pay defined in Section 10.

For the purpose of this Agreement, termination without cause shall occur when:

   A. A majority of the governing body votes to terminate the Employee at a duly
      authorized public meeting under circumstances not amounting to termination with
      cause.

   B. If the City, its citizens or Utah legislature acts to amend any provisions of Title 2,
      Chapter 15 of the Riverton City Code pertaining to the role, powers, duties,

                                             4
Riverton City Employment Agreement
David R. Brickey, May 19, 2020

      authority, responsibilities of the Employee’s position that substantially changes
      the form of government, the Employee shall have the right to declare that such
      amendments constitute termination.

   C. If the City reduces the base salary, compensation or any other financial benefit of
      the Employee, unless it is applied in no greater percentage than the average
      reduction of all department heads, such action shall be regarded as a
      termination.


   D. If the governing body fails to renew the Agreement before expiration of the same,
      on substantially the same terms stated in the Agreement prior to expiration, the
      Employee shall have right to declare a termination as of the date the Agreement
      expires.

For the purpose of this Agreement, termination with cause shall occur when:

   A. Employee is convicted of a public offense which is punishable as a class B
      misdemeanor. This provision shall not apply to traffic offenses which are
      punishable as a class B misdemeanor, unless the offense involves alcohol, a
      controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance as an element of
      the public offense, such as (without limitation) driving under the influence of
      alcohol or controlled substance/controlled substance metabolite.

   B. Employee is convicted of any public offence, whether related to traffic regulations
      or not, which is punishable as a class A misdemeanor, a felony, or other crime
      involving moral turpitude.

   C. Employee has inappropriately used of narcotics or alcohol in violation of the
      City’s Drug and Alcohol Testing/Drug Free Workplace Policy, or state or federal
      law.

   D. Employee has Breached a material term of this Agreement or has refused to
      substantially perform his obligations and duties under this Agreement (except by
      reason of incapacity due to illness or accident) and he:

      1. has failed to remedy the alleged breach caused by such conduct within 30
         days from the date written notice is given by the City demanding that he
         remedy the alleged breach caused by such conduct, or

      2. has failed to take reasonable steps in good faith to achieve a remedy during
         such 30-day period, if a remedy is not reasonably achievable within the 30-
         day period;

      provided that after the end of such 30-day period City will deliver to the Employee
      a certified copy of a resolution of the Governing Body, taken at a meeting of the
      Governing Body at which the Employee, together with his counsel, is given the
      opportunity to be heard, finding that the Employee was guilty of refusing to
      substantially perform his obligations and duties under this Agreement and

                                           5
Riverton City Employment Agreement
David R. Brickey, May 19, 2020

       specifying the details thereof, and that the Employee has failed to take
       reasonable steps in good faith to remedy the alleged breach caused by such
       conduct;

   E. Employee has committed or aided and abetted willful fraud or defalcation, either
       of which involved funds or other assets of the City.

   F. Employee has committed malfeasance in office or willful or wanton neglect of
       duty.

Section 10: Severance

In the event that this Agreement terminates without cause, as described in Section 9 or
if the Employee declares termination under circumstances permitted in Section 9, the
Employee shall be entitled to severance pay. For the purposes of this Agreement,
severance pay is defined as three (3) months of base salary plus an additional month of
severance for each year employed (beginning on the date of May 11, 2020) up to a
maximum of 12 months. In addition, Employee is entitled to accrued vacation leave,
paid in a lump sum, and continuation of all benefits except payment of URS-related
retirement benefits, for a period equal to the number of months’ severance pay which
Employee is eligible to receive upon termination.

Section 11: Resignation

In the event that the Employee voluntarily resigns his/her position with the Employer,
the Employee shall provide a minimum of 30 days’ notice unless the parties agree
otherwise.

Section 12: Performance Evaluation

The Governing Body of the City shall annually (on or within 15 days of each anniversary
date following the effective date of this Agreement) review the performance of the
Employee. The performance review process shall at a minimum include the opportunity
for the Governing Body and Employee to: (1) each prepare a written evaluation; (2)
meet and discuss the evaluation; and (3) present a written summary of the evaluation
results.

Annually, the City and the Employee shall define such goals and performance
objectives which they determine necessary for the proper operation of the City and the
attainment of the City’s policy objectives. The City shall further establish a relative
priority among those various goals and objectives. The goals should be realistically
attainable within the limitations as specified and, if needed in order to accomplish said
goals, additional funding should be considered and provided by the Council in the
annual adoption of its municipal budget, or in any amendments thereto.


Section 13: Hours of Work

It is recognized that the Employee is an educated and trained professional and as such,

                                            6
Riverton City Employment Agreement
David R. Brickey, May 19, 2020

consistent with the nature of the requirements of the position of City Manager, working
hours will vary. It is understood that the Employee must devote a great deal of time
outside of normal office hours attending to the business of the City. The Employee shall
be allowed to schedule time as he or she deems appropriate to accommodate the
varying demands of such job required activities and evening meetings, Council
meetings, legislative lobbying activities, and necessary weekend and holiday work.

Section 14: Outside Activities

The employment provided for by this Agreement shall be the Employee’s sole
employment. Recognizing that certain outside consulting or teaching opportunities
provide indirect benefits to the City and the community, the Employee may elect to
accept limited teaching, consulting or other business opportunities with the
understanding that such arrangements shall neither constitute interference with nor a
conflict of interest with Employee’s responsibilities under this Agreement. All
determinations made regarding Employee’s acceptance of other employment or
business opportunities are subject to regulation under Riverton City Code, Title 2,
Chapter 120. The occasional acceptance of legal work for family and friends shall not,
per se, be construed as a breach of this Agreement; provided, however that the
acceptance of such work does not present a conflict of interest or otherwise interfere
with Employee's fulfillment of his duties as Riverton's City Manager.

Section 15: Indemnification

Beyond that required under Federal, State or Local Law, the City shall defend, hold
harmless and indemnify Employee against any tort, professional liability claim, demand
or other legal action, whether groundless or otherwise, arising out of an alleged act or
omission occurring in the performance of Employee’s duties as City Manager or
resulting from the exercise of judgment or discretion in connection with the performance
of program duties or responsibilities, unless the act or omission involved willful or
wanton conduct on the part of the Employee. In the event a conflict of interest arises in
the City’s defense of Employee, the Employee may request and the City shall not
unreasonably refuse to provide independent legal representation at the City’s expense
and the City may not unreasonably withhold approval. Legal representation, provided by
the City for Employee, shall extend until a final determination of the legal action
including any appeals brought by either party. The City shall indemnify Employee
against any and all losses, damages, judgments, interest, settlements, fines, court costs
and other reasonable costs and expenses of legal proceedings including attorneys’
fees, and any other liabilities incurred by, imposed upon, or suffered by such Employee
in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding, actual or
threatened, arising out of or in connection with the performance of his or her duties. Any
settlement of any claim must be made with prior approval of the City in order for
indemnification, as provided in this Section, to be available.

Employee recognizes that the City shall have the right to compromise and unless the
Employee is a party to the suit, Employee shall not have veto authority over the
settlement or settle any claim or suit unless said compromise or settlement is of a
personal nature to Employee. Further, the City agrees to pay all reasonable litigation
expenses of Employee throughout the pendency of any litigation to which the Employee

                                            7
Riverton City Employment Agreement
David R. Brickey, May 19, 2020

is a party, witness or advisor to the City. Such expense payments shall continue beyond
Employee's service to the City as long as litigation is pending. Further, the City agrees
to pay Employee reasonable consulting fees and travel expenses when, after
terminating employment, Employee serves as a witness, advisor or consultant to the
City regarding pending litigation.

Section 16: Bonding

The City shall bear the full cost of any fidelity or other bonds required of the Employee
under any law or ordinance.


Section 17: Other Terms and Conditions of Employment

The City, only upon agreement with Employee, shall fix any such other terms and
conditions of employment, as it may determine from time to time, relating to the
performance of the Employee, provided such terms and conditions are not inconsistent
with or in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement, City ordinance or any other law.
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Employee shall be entitled to the
benefits that are enjoyed by other appointed employees, department heads or general
employees of the City as provided in Riverton City’s Policies and Procedures.

Section 18: Notices

Notice pursuant to this Agreement shall be given by depositing in the custody of the
United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:



   1) THE CITY:             Riverton City Mayor and Council
                            12830 South 1700 West
                            Riverton, Utah 84065

   2) EMPLOYEE:             David R. Brickey
                            1729 Nevada Street
                            Salt Lake City, Utah 84108


Alternatively, notice required pursuant to this Agreement may be personally served in
the same manner as is applicable to the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure. Notice shall be
deemed given as of the date of personal service or as the date of deposit of such
written notice in the course of transmission in the United States Postal Service. In the
event either party changes addresses, notification of the other party of the changed
address shall be given in accordance with this section.

Section 19: General Provisions

   A. Integration. This Agreement sets forth and establishes the entire understanding
       between the City and the Employee relating to the employment of the Employee

                                             8
Riverton City Employment Agreement
David R. Brickey, May 19, 2020

      by the City. Any prior discussions or representations by or between the parties
      are merged into and rendered null and void by this Agreement. The parties by
      mutual written agreement may amend any provision of this Agreement during the
      life of the Agreement. Such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part
      of this Agreement.

   B. Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding on the City and the Employee as
      well as their heirs, assigns, executors, personal representatives and successors
      in interest.

   C. Severability. The invalidity or partial invalidity of any portion of this Agreement will
      not affect the validity of any other provision. In the event that any provision of this
      Agreement is held to be invalid, the remaining provisions shall be deemed to be
      in full force and effect as if they have been executed by both parties subsequent
      to the expungement or judicial modification of the invalid provision.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE City of Riverton has caused this agreement to be signed
and executed in its behalf by its Mayor and duly attested by its City Recorder and the
Employee has signed and executed this agreement, both in duplicate, as of the day and
year first above written.




Trent Staggs, Mayor                               David R. Brickey, Employee



ATTEST:



Virginia Loader, City Recorder




                                              9
