                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council

From:            Planning Department

Date:            March 17, 2020

Subject:         ORDINANCE AMENDMENT AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 18.175, WIRELESS
                 COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS, OF THE RIVERTON CITY CODE,
                 ADDRESSING ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS FOR WIRELESS
                 COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND APPROVAL PROCESSES FOR TOWERS
                 ON SCHOOL DISTRICT PROPERTIES, AMENDMENTS PROPOSED BY
                 RIVERTON CITY



On February 13, 2020, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider this proposed
ordinance amendment. Following that hearing, the Commission voted to recommend APPROVAL
of the proposed amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning
Commission recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 20-08, amending Section 18.175, Wireless Communication
Towers, addressing architectural standards for such towers and amending the approval process for
towers on School District properties, as described in Exhibit “A”.

Background

This item is proposed by Riverton City, and includes changes to Section 18.175, Wireless Communication
Towers. There are three main changes proposed to that ordinance.

First, the amendment includes language that specifies that telecommunication towers on School District
property do not require review and approval by the City. With few exceptions, development on School
District properties is not subject to local zoning requirements or standards under State law. Staff will
continue to work with the School District where possible to address potential issues, but no formal review
or approval is required.

Second, the amendment establishes criteria for determining the need for architectural screening of wireless
communication towers. Such screening, as defined in the amendment, may include the use of water tanks,
clock towers, artificial trees or other vegetation, and other methods as determined by the Commission. The
amendment states that the Commission may require architectural screening where one or more of the
following circumstances exist:


Report by: TJP
3/10/2020
         The tower is in proximity to residential dwellings and architectural screening is necessary to mitigate
          significant visual impacts.
         The tower is in an area of historic or cultural significance.
         The tower is being located in a park or other public area where screening is necessary to mitigate
          visual impacts.
         The tower sits within an area determined by the Commission to be an entryway to the City.
         Other circumstances as determined by the Planning Commission

Finally, the amendment clarifies language relating to approval authority for Conditional Use permits for
wireless communication towers. The existing language includes references to the City Council, and the
approval authority for Conditional Use permits rests with the Planning Commission. That has been
corrected in the amendment.

The Planning Commission, in their review of this ordinance amendment, recommended approval of the
changes as described herein.

ATTACHEMENTS
   1. Exhibit “A” – Draft Amended Ordinace




Report by: TJP
3/10/2020
   Exhibit “A” – Draft Amended Ordinance                                                               Page 1/7



                                                Chapter 18.175

                           WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWERS


Sections:
18.175.010      Purpose.
18.175.020      Antenna and structure types.
18.175.030      Permitted use co-location.
18.175.040      Conditional use.
18.175.050      Development requirements.
18.175.060      Maintenance and business license.
18.175.070      Abandonment of facilities.
18.175.080      Requirements for monopole antennas.
18.175.090      Requirements for wall-mounted antennas.
18.175.100      Requirements for roof-mounted antennas.
18.175.110      Requirements for other antennas.
18.175.120      Telecommunications towers not permitted.
18.175.010 Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to plan for the rapid expansion of telecommunications facilities. In
addition, other more specific purposes are as follows:
(1) Set regulations addressing the preferred placement, visual mitigation, and installation of low
powered communication towers.
(2) To balance the increasing need for telecommunications technology with the interests of the
property owner while protecting the health, safety, and welfare of the city’s residents.
18.175.020 Antenna and structure types.
Communication towers are characterized both by the type and/or location of the antenna
structure. This chapter shall address low powered communication towers for the following
facility types: amateur “ham” radios, lattice towers, monopoles, roof mounts, wall mounts, whip
antennas, and microwave or satellite dishes.
18.175.030 Permitted use co-location.
Antennas to be located on monopole, as allowed herein, may be allowed as a permitted use if co-
located on a monopole site that has been previously approved by a conditional use permit.
Telecommunications towers located on properties belonging to the Jordan School District are a
permitted use and do not require review and approval by the City, except for any applicable
Building Permits.

18.175.040 Conditional use.
(1) General. Telecommunications towers are a conditional use in all zones except residentially
zoned areas.
Telecommunications towers are prohibited in residentially zoned areas except as may be
permitted with a conditional use permit upon or within any institutional use, regardless of the



                 The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 19-29, passed October 15, 2019.
   Exhibit “A” – Draft Amended Ordinance                                                               Page 2/7



zoning designation. These institutional uses include, but are not limited to: churches, well sites,
water tanks, city parks, city buildings (fire, police, City Hall), public schools, and quasi-public
schools.
(2) Approval and Building Permit. Each tower placement shall be reviewed and approved by the
city council following a recommendation from the planning commission. Each tower location
will require a building permit. Co-location of any additional antenna on a preexisting tower
requires a building permit through administrative approval by the planning department.
(3) Criteria for Approval of Conditional Use. In conducting its review and/or making its
determination to allow a low power radio telecommunications antenna facility as a conditional
use, the city council, after recommendation from the planning commission, shall, in addition to
any other matters it may choose to consider, consider the following:
    (a) Whether the proposed structure complies with all the required standards and criteria
    listed in this chapter.
    (b) Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass of existing buildings in
    the area.
    (c) The location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation, topography, and buildings
    to obtain the best visual screening.
    (d) Visual and economic impact upon adjacent properties. The Planning Commission may
    require architectural screening of a wireless communication tower where it is determined
    that one or more of the following circumstances exist:
        1) The tower is in proximity to residential dwellings and architectural screening is
           necessary to mitigate significant visual impacts.
        2) The tower is in an area of historic or cultural significance.
        3) The tower is being located in a park or other public area where screening is necessary
           to mitigate visual impacts.
        4) The tower sits within an area determined by the Commission to be an entryway to the
            City.
        5) Other circumstances as determined by the Planning Commission



    (e) Compliance with Federal Communications Commission (FCC) emission standards.
    (f) Whether placement of the structure in the proposed location will result in a significant
    impact to other uses or the reception or transmission of existing facilities.
    (g) Each tower application shall evaluate whether co-location on other existing structures in
    the same vicinity such as other towers, buildings, water towers, utility poles, athletic field
    lights, parking lot lights, etc., is possible without significantly impacting antenna



                 The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 19-29, passed October 15, 2019.
   Exhibit “A” – Draft Amended Ordinance                                                               Page 3/7



    transmission or reception. However, for location on such existing structures and poles,
    telecommunications facilities must meet the following additional requirements:
        (i) No lighting shall be placed on the site that further illuminates, advertises, or draws
        attention to any part of the facility; and
        (ii) The mounting of such facility complies in all respects with all other provisions of
        this chapter.
    (h) If proposed to be placed on public property, whether such placement has been approved
    by the City Council, and whether said approval included any specific requirements, terms, or
    conditions related to placement or appearance of the tower, equipment, or structures, etc.
    (i) The city council Planning Commission may approve the conditional use application with
    additional conditions.

18.175.050 Development requirements.
(1) Applicability of Building and Safety Regulations. All antenna locations shall provide
assurance that the installation complies with all applicable standards and regulations, including,
but not limited to, International Building Code, National Electrical Code, Federal
Communications Commission, Federal Aviation Administration, and Environmental Protection
Agency as well as all other city ordinances. Each application for a permit to build a
telecommunications tower shall be certified by a licensed professional engineer that the design
meets all standards herein. No communication facility shall encroach upon or block vehicular or
pedestrian access at any time. Climbing pegs or access ladders shall be removed from the lower
20 feet regardless of location. Antennas shall be mounted with such standards that the structure
can easily withstand wind force up to 80 miles per hour.
(2) Site Plan. Unless stated otherwise herein, all the types of antennas listed herein as permitted
must make an application to the planning department for site plan approval. All applications
shall adhere to the requirements for site plan approval in addition to requirements as detailed
herein. The site plan shall be accompanied by a photographic example of an existing facility, the
dimensions, elevation and site plan of the tower and associated electronic cabinetry and, if
applicable, a prepared co-location contract in the event the facility may be shared for future
antenna placement.
(3) Accessory Buildings. Accessory buildings must comply with required setback, height, and
landscaping standards as required in the zoning district in which the tower is located.
(4) Grounded. All antennas and support structures shall be grounded in accordance with the
National Electrical Code.
(5) Architectural Screening. Architectural screening may include the use of artificial trees or
other natural features, clock towers, water tanks, flag poles, and other screening as approved by
the City. Architectural screening may be required for freestanding towers or antenna, or where
incorporated into existing buildings or structures.




                 The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 19-29, passed October 15, 2019.
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting
February 13, 2020                                                                         3


       3.     Applicant complete a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan
              according to Riverton City Standards and ordinances.

       4.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
              construction grading on the site.

       5.     The site and structures comply with any and all applicable Riverton City
              Standards and ordinances.

       6.     The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Lefgren. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the commission.

3.     REZONE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING A REZONE OF PROPERTIES NEAR
       12800 SOUTH 1500 WEST AND 12800 SOUTH 1400 WEST. THE CURRENT
       ZONING IS A PUBLIC UTILITY AND THE PROPOSED ZONING IS PARKS AND
       OPEN SPACE.

Mr. Lethbridge stated that in the Main City Park prior to the renovations, City Hall and the
Public Works yard were part of the park space. The property was zoned Public Utility to
differentiate the it from the Park. As City Hall was relocated to the current building, the new
zoning of the Park was never addressed. The proposed rezone will be compatible with what
surrounds it. The rezone was outlined on a map displayed and does not reflect any change
of use or alteration to the park.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Hansen moved to approve Application PLZ-20-4001 rezoning
properties located near 1500 West 12800 South as shown on the attached Proposed
Zoning Map from Public Utility to P-OS (Parks and Open Space). The motion was
seconded by Commissioner James. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the commission.

4.     ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
       AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 18.175, WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS,
       OF THE RIVERTON CITY CODE.

Mr. Lethbridge described a conversation staff had previously involving potential changes to
the Wireless Communications Ordinance regarding cell towers and similar facilities. One
item that was discussed previously was that school district properties are not subject to the
jurisdiction of the City in these matters. In the past, cell towers were recognized as
conditional uses because of the requirement that they remain a certain distance from
surrounding residential, however, that requirement had been rescinded from the ordinance.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting
February 13, 2020                                                                          4


There is no longer a basis for the City to exercise any oversight. Mr. Lethbridge reviewed
the proposed ordinance language changes.

The second issue involved disguising cell towers or including architectural screening. The
first part of the language that was drafted included language specifying that the Planning
Commission may require that type of screening anywhere in the City with the exception of
school property. Mr. Lethbridge provided examples of criteria the Planning Commission
could require for this type of architectural screening. It was noted that the ordinance broadly
defines architectural screening as approved by the City and that it may be for free standing
towers or for antennae array that are incorporated into buildings or other structures. This
was based on a previous discussion involving the proposed language from staff that gives
the Planning Commission the authority and structure to require it. Mr. Lethbridge clarified
that it does not mandate it. There is also language elsewhere in the ordinance that
acknowledges that the Council may require architectural screening in negotiating a Lease
Agreement for public land.

Commissioner James stated that the word “by” was removed from the ordinance but should
be included. Mr. Lethbridge acknowledged it was not intended to have been removed. He
stated that a few of the references still recognize the City Council as the land use authority,
however, it is currently the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Hartley asked if landscaping would be considered the same as architectural
screening. Mr. Lethbridge confirmed that it would.

Commissioner Rushton asked if Riverton had not rescinded the regulation for height relative
to distance, if that would have given the school district some structure as far as when they
were identifying potential locations on the school property. Mr. Lethbridge stated that that
was the reason for the conditional use. The intent was to insure that it is 150% the height
of the tower away from surrounding homes. The City rescinded it because there was no
basis in the original decision to maintain it. There was no data showing that the towers are
inherently unsafe, that there is an in inherent radiation risk, or that a particular distance of
separation would mitigate any risk if it existed. Mr. Lethbridge explained that that was the
only basis for review. It did not necessarily give the City the authority to deny a tower if the
school district is able to place it the required distance from homes.

Commissioner Rushton commented that the issue of radiation was not even commented on.
The Commission denied a tower on Redwood Road and Bangerter because it was to be
located near a senior center. Mr. Lethbridge stated that the reason he brought up radiation
was because the applicant wanted the requirement waived. In considering that question,
staff reviewed why the standard was in place and determined that there was no basis for the
restriction.

Commission Rushton asked if there are any other communities with something similar.
Mr. Lethbridge stated that there are communities that maintain separation; however, they
have very little growth. Most communities that are experiencing growth find it increasingly
difficult to locate towers with those types of restrictions maintained. Most communities have
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting
February 13, 2020                                                                          5


moved away from those types of limitations because they have found it difficult to place
towers. In response to a question raised, Mr. Lethbridge stated that the proximity
requirement had never been contested, so it may not have held up.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Hartley moved to approve the proposed amendments to Section
18.175, Wireless Communication Towers, as described in Exhibit “A”. The motion
was seconded by Commissioner Hansen. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

5.     ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING AN
       AMENDMENT TO THE TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES TO ALLOW “AUTO
       DEALERSHIPS, NEW OR USED” AS A CONDITIONAL USE IN THE COMMERCIAL
       DOWNTOWN ZONE.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the current ordinance limits auto dealerships, new or used, to
the Commercial Regional zone, which is located west of 3600 West. An interested party
approached the City about the possibility of developing a used car lot and mechanic shop
on the site. The request was before the Commission to address the question of auto
dealerships in the Downtown zone. It was noted that auto parts, retail, repair, and related
services are allowed as conditional uses.

Mr. Lethbridge asked for feedback on the following:

        1.    Should auto dealerships, new or used, be an acceptable use in the Downtown
              area; and

        2.    If so, under what circumstances.

Mr. Lethbridge believed that some of the primary reasons they were designated as not
permitted had to do with impacts. New or larger dealerships have a significant amount of
lighting, which can have significant impacts on surrounding properties. There are also no
large tracts of land remaining in the downtown area and what is left is being developed
rapidly. Most likely these uses will be utilized on infill or reuse properties, however, they do
have associated impacts. The Commission was asked to address whether there are
circumstances under which auto dealerships, new or used, would be acceptable downtown.

Commissioner James stated that the use is similar to other uses that already exist on 12600
South. The concern was that auto dealers, new or used, typically use promotional signage
and bright lighting. He asked if staff had contemplated applying the same conditions to a
typical auto dealership or if it would be modified to conform to 12600 South.

Commissioner James suggested moving forward but to take into consideration the size of
the parcel and its use in relation to the typical size of auto dealerships. There could be very
