                  OFFICE OF THE
                  STATE AUDITOR



                                                 Auditor Alert 2020-01

   Date: February 13, 2020

   Subject: Annual Fraud Risk Assessment

   Background

   The Office of the State Auditor (Office) has developed a Fraud Risk Assessment (Assessment) to
   help local government board members understand best practices in fraud detection and prevention.
   The Assessment assigns an overall risk level of undetected fraud based upon points earned for the
   implementation of the identified best practices.

   We emphasize the following:

           The best practices identified in the Assessment are not required, but are highly recommended.
           All of the best practices identified in the Assessment may be implemented at a low or no cost.
                o See the Implementation Guide for resources and suggestions.
           The Assessment is not a replacement or duplication of the internal control assessment
            performed by an independent auditor as part of a financial statement audit. While they are
            both risk assessments, their methodologies and purposes are distinct.

   Requirements

   Beginning in 2020, all local governments will complete the Assessment internally.

           The Assessment must be completed and presented to the governing board before the end of
            the 2020 fiscal year.
           The Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Financial Officer must certify the results of the
            Assessment.
           The Assessment must be submitted to the Office within six months after the end of the fiscal
            year.




Utah State Capitol Complex, East Office Building, Suite E310 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-2310 • Tel: (801) 538-1025 • auditor.utah.gov
             Basic Separation of Duties

See page 2 of this questionnaire for instructions and definitions.
                                                                                   Yes   No   MC*   N/A
 1. Does the entity have a board chair, clerk, and treasurer who are three
    separate people?

 2. Are all the people who are able to receive cash or check payments different
    from all of the people who are able to make general ledger entries?

 3. Are all the people who are able to collect cash or check payments different
    from all the people who are able to adjust customer accounts? If no customer
    accounts, check “N/A”.

 4. Are all the people who have access to blank checks different from those who
    are authorized signers?

 5. Does someone other than the clerk and treasurer reconcile all bank accounts
    OR are original bank statements reviewed by a person other than the clerk to
    detect unauthorized disbursements?

 6. Does someone other than the clerk review periodic reports of all general
    ledger accounts to identify unauthorized payments recorded in those
    accounts?

 7. Are original credit/purchase card statements received directly from the card
    company by someone other than the card holder? If no credit/purchase cards,
    check “N/A”.

 8. Does someone other than the credit/purchase card holder ensure that all card
    purchases are supported with receipts or other supporting documentation? If
    no credit/purchase cards, check “N/A”.

 9. Does someone who is not a subordinate of the credit/purchase card holder
    review all card purchases for appropriateness (including the chief
    administrative officer and board members if they have a card)? If no
    credit/purchase cards, check “N/A”.

10. Does the person who authorizes payment for goods or services, who is not
    the clerk, verify the receipt of goods or services?

11. Does someone authorize payroll payments who is separate from the person
    who prepares payroll payments? If no W-2 employees, check “N/A”.

12. Does someone review all payroll payments who is separate from the person
    who prepares payroll payments? If no W-2 employees, check “N/A”.




                                                     12
