                                    RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
                                    RESOLUTION NO. 24-11

      A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN AMENDMENT TO THE RIVERTON CITY
              PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL

        WHEREAS, the Riverton City Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual (the “Manual”)
is used to set acceptable parameters for employment operations, and define employee benefits; and

      WHEREAS, the Manual is reviewed and updated from time to time as changes in law or in
employment practices arise; and

       WHEREAS, City staff has evaluated the manual and determined some terms need to be
updated to improve the administration of the probationary period afforded to new employees; and

        WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council, does hereby determine that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Riverton City and City employees to
adopt revisions to the Manual which describe the terms and conditions by which the City’s
employees undergo a probationary period immediately following their hire date;

       NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of Riverton City, Utah, as
follows:

       1. The Riverton City Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual, Section 2.6, Employment,
          attached to this Resolution is hereby amended as provided in Exhibit A of this Resolution.
          The Mayor is hereby directed to ensure that the Manual is accordingly revised and made
          available to all City employees within a reasonable time from adoption of this Resolution.

       2. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon passage.

        PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, this 16th day of
 January 2024 by the following vote:

                                              YES    NO
       Councilmember Tish Buroker             ____   ____
       Councilmember Spencer Haymond          ____   ____
       Councilmember Tawnee McCay             ____   ____
       Councilmember Troy McDougal            ____   ____
       Councilmember Andy Pierucci            ____   ____

                                                       RIVERTON CITY

                 [SEAL]

 ATTEST:                                               Trent Staggs, Mayor


 Jamie Larsen, Recorder
                                            Exhibit A

2.6 EMPLOYMENT

    PROBATION PERIOD
    Every new employee and any current employee who has moved to a new position will go
    through an initial period of adjustment in order to learn about Riverton City and about his/her
    job. At the beginning of their probation period, every new employee and any current employee
    who has moved to a new position will be given a copy of the current evaluation criteria for
    which they will be evaluated. The supervisor will go over the criteria to make sure the employee
    understands the evaluation criteria and how the employee’s performance may be measured
    against the criteria.

    Every new employee and any current employee who has moved to a new position will be
    evaluated for continued employment during the probation period. During this period, the
    employee shall hold the status of an at-will employee. The at-will status of employees
    undergoing a probationary period equally applies to current employees who have moved to a
    new position. The probation period is either six (6) or twelve (12) months, as determined by the
    department head and approved by City Manager at the commencement of the Employee’s
    probationary period. A determination as to whether an employee’s probationary period shall be
    set at twelve (12) instead of six (6) months shall be based on whether the employee will not be
    able to reasonably complete training, demonstrate the ability to perform all essential job
    functions, or complete matters related to required job qualifications within a six (6) month
    probation period. An employee’s probationary period During probation, employment may be
    terminated for any reason, at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason at the
    discretion of the Department Head. If the probationary employee’s performance is
    unsatisfactory, the Department Head may choose to notify the employee verbally of the
    performance deficiencies and give the employee an opportunity to correct his/her performance.
    If before the conclusion of the probation period the employee’s job performance continues to
    be unsatisfactory, the employee shall be notified in writing of failure to complete the
    probationary period and employment will be terminated. Under appropriate circumstances, the
    probation period established for the employee may be extended. Any extension must be done
    in writing and must not be extended beyond three (3) months following the end of the
    probation period. No supervisor or other representative of Riverton City (except for the Mayor,
    with the advice and consent of the City Council) has the authority to enter into any agreement
    for employment for any specified period of time, or to make any agreement contrary to the
    above.

    At the end of the probation period, the employee and his/her supervisor will have a
    performance evaluation using Riverton City’s approved evaluation program and the same
    criteria given the employee upon their entry as a new employee or employee that has moved to
    a different position of Riverton City. Provided his/her job performance is “satisfactory” at the
    end of the probation period, he/she may continue in Riverton City’s employment. This
    performance evaluation and the results of such evaluation shall not obligate management to a
    particular course of action relative to the probationary employee, nor shall it create any
    property/due process rights of the probationary employee relative to his/her job/position. Any
    merit raise that may be given at this time shall be given as of the effective date of the end of the

                                                 2
probation period. The performance evaluation will become part of the employee’s permanent
personnel file. Employee rights of appeal do not apply during this probation period, whether a
new employee or a current employee who has moved to a new position.

If a current employee moves to a new position, the probationary period, and by extension the
employee’s evaluation period, will move to the dates associated with the new position.
However, all other benefit dates tied to benefits such as vacation, sick accrual, retirement, etc.
will remain with the employee’s original hire date or other appropriate date as defined by the
specific benefit.




                                             3
                                            LEGISLATIVE COPY

2.6 EMPLOYMENT

PROBATION PERIOD
Every new employee and any current employee who has moved to a new position will go through an
initial period of adjustment in order to learn about Riverton City and about his/her job. At the beginning
of their probation period, every new employee and any current employee who has moved to a new
position will be given a copy of the current evaluation criteria for which they will be evaluated. The
supervisor will go over the criteria to make sure the employee understands the evaluation criteria and
how the employee’s performance may be measured against the criteria.

Every new employee and any current employee who has moved to a new position will be evaluated for
continued employment during the probation period. During this period, the employee shall hold the
status of an at-will employee. The at-will status of employees undergoing a probationary period equally
applies to current employees who have moved to a new position. The probation period is either six (6)
or twelve (12) months, as determined by the department head and approved by City Manager at the
commencement of the Employee’s probationary period. A determination as to whether an employee’s
probationary period shall be set at twelve (12) instead of six (6) months shall be based on whether the
employee will not be able to reasonably complete training, demonstrate the ability to perform all
essential job functions, or complete matters related to required job qualifications within a six (6) month
probation period. Unless extended as provided herein. An employee’s probationary period During
probation, employment may be terminated for any reason, at any time, with or without cause, and for
any reason at the discretion of the Department Head. If the probationary employee’s performance is
unsatisfactory, the Department Head may choose to notify the employee verbally of the performance
deficiencies and give the employee an opportunity to correct his/her performance. If before the
conclusion of the probation period the employee’s job performance continues to be unsatisfactory, the
employee shall be notified in writing of failure to complete the probationary period and employment
will be terminated. Under appropriate circumstances, the probation period established for the
employee may be extended. Any extension must be done in writing and must not be extended beyond
three (3) months following the end of the probation period. No supervisor or other representative of
Riverton City (except for the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council) has the authority to
enter into any agreement for employment for any specified period of time, or to make any agreement
contrary to the above.

At the end of the probation period, the employee and his/her supervisor will have a performance
evaluation using Riverton City’s approved evaluation program and the same criteria given the employee
upon their entry as a new employee or employee that has moved to a different position of Riverton City.
Provided his/her job performance is “satisfactory” at the end of the probation period, he/she may
continue in Riverton City’s employment. This performance evaluation and the results of such evaluation
shall not obligate management to a particular course of action relative to the probationary employee,
nor shall it create any property/due process rights of the probationary employee relative to his/her
job/position. Any merit raise that may be given at this time shall be given as of the effective date of the
end of the probation period. The performance evaluation will become part of the employee’s
permanent personnel file. Employee rights of appeal do not apply during this probation period, whether
a new employee or a current employee who has moved to a new position.



                                                    4
If a current employee moves to a new position, the probationary period, and by extension the
employee’s evaluation period, will move to the dates associated with the new position. However, all
other benefit dates tied to benefits such as vacation, sick accrual, retirement, etc. will remain with the
employee’s original hire date or other appropriate date as defined by the specific benefit.




                                                     5
