                            MEMORANDUM
To:           Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:         Planning Department
Date:         October 1, 2024
Subject:      24-20 “Beckstead Manor” Rezone of approximately 1.5-acres located at
              13191, 13171, and 13153 South Redwood Road from RR-22 (Residential low-
              density, .5-acre min) to RM-18 (Residential high-density, 18 units per acre )
              and General Plan to High Density Residential. Applicant- Barbara Catron


On September 12, 2024 the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this rezone
application. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Commission voted to
recommend DENIAL of this application. That recommended motion is shown below, with a
sample motion to approved included also should it needed.

I move the City Council DENY Ordinance 24-20, thus keeping the property designated as
Low Density Residential in the General Plan and keeping the current zoning of RR-22 (.5-
acre lots).

Sample Motion to Approve.
I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 24-20, amending the General Plan and Rezoning
a 1.5-acre parcel located at 13191, 13171, and 13153 South Redwood Road, changing the
General Plan designation to High Density Residential, and changing the zoning to RM-18 (18
units per acre).



Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant, Barbara Catron, for
about 1.5-acres located at 13191, 13171, and 13153 South Redwood Road. The lots are
currently zoned RR-22, low-density residential with .5-acre minimum lot size. The requested
zone is RM-18 which is a high-density, multi-family housing zone with a maximum 18 units per
acre.

The subject parcel is a rectangular- shaped property located on Redwood Road (1700 West)
north of 13200 South Street, with approximately 300 feet of frontage on Redwood Road. The
property is mostly vacant with a few sheds and old farm buildings. The corner parcels were
previously occupied by a legal non-conforming commercial use, a flower shop, which was
removed in 2017 due to widening of Redwood Road by UDOT. This is shown on the included
timeline drawing below.

The property’s west boundary is Redwood Road. The adjoining property to the north of this
parcel is .67-acre and zoned RR-22. The south boundary is 13200 South. There are two
adjoining properties to the east, one is zoned RR-22 and one is a house zoned C-N
(Neighborhood Commercial).

The General Plan for the area is a mix of Low- and Estate- Density Residential. The subject
property is currently designated as Low-Density and would need to be changed to a High-
Density Designation for the RM-18 Zone. This area of Redwood Road was for a period of
several years designated in the Riverton City General Plan for multi-family uses, with a density
range of 5-8 units per acre. That was subsequently amended to its current single-family
residential designation.

The applicant has provided concept details for the proposed project area. Please note that this
information is illustrative, as the approval is for the change to zoning only. Additional details will
be presented at the City Council hearing.

The Planning Commission recommended denial of the application, after significant discussion
and public comment. Those minutes are included below.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Rezone Application.
       2.   Ownership Affidavit.
       3.   Area Zoning Map.
       4.   Area General Plan Map.
rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
Subject
Property
rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
                   Proposed Zoning


rivertonutah.gov
Material Submitted by Applicant




 rivertonutah.gov
Material Submitted by Applicant




 rivertonutah.gov
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
September 12, 2024



Commissioner Knudsen asked Staff to address the drainage issue as he assumed there is
a step in the construction process that addresses drainage. Mr. Lethbridge stated that it
would be addressed in the Site Plan process. All property owners are required to manage
the drainage on their property. If they have changed the level of the lot, it will have to be
addressed by the property owner’s engineers and reviewed by the City Engineer to ensure
that they capture all the drainage, and it does not spill over onto adjacent properties. The
current property owner is responsible for any damage to the adjacent property due to
improper drainage.

Chair Matheson could not imagine anyone building a single-family home on the lot and
having to back out onto Redwood Road. His opinion was that it needed to be turned into
something other than a single-family home. He believed it was important to consider the
concept and rezone the property. Commissioner Cluff agreed that the parcel is not well-
suited for residential but it could be well-suited for a professional office because they tend
to have lower traffic and lower evening activity. She believes C-PO is appropriate zoning to
abut residential properties, and she was comfortable recommending approval.

Commissioner Park stated that knowing the requirements placed on similar developments
to address things like water retention and lighting to lessen the impact on neighboring
residential properties, he believed it was a good fit for the area.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of Application PLZ-24-4004, Jensen Redwood Rezone, for amending the General Plan
and Rezoning a .56-acre parcel located at 13803 South Redwood Road, to change the
General Plan designation to Professional Office and changing the zoning to
Commercial Professional Office. Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

       D.     BECKSTEAD MANOR, PLZ-24-4005, AN APPLICATION TO AMEND THE
              GENERAL PLAN AND REZONE 2.12-ACRES AT 13191 SOUTH, 13171
              SOUTH, AND 13153 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD FROM RR-22
              (RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY, .5-ACRE MINIMUM LOT SIZE) TO RM-18
              (RESIDENTIAL HIGH-DENSITY). APPLICANT - BARBARA CATRON.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the Staff Report and stated that similar to the Jensen application,
the subject lots are an odd shape due to the widening of Redwood Road. Prior to 2016, the
properties were zoned Residential, but a legal nonconforming commercial flower shop was
located on the property. In 2017, the majority of the buildings were removed prior to the
widening of Redwood Road. The Planning Commission was considering two applications,
a General Plan Amendment and Rezoning request. The applicant is the owner of the
property. Notices were sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the site and posted on
the City’s webpage.

The current General Plan designation is Estate Density Residential, which requires a
minimum of 0.5 acre lots, and the property is zoned RR-22. The Montessori School is
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
September 12, 2024


directly adjacent to the site. The requested zoning is RM-18, which is a multifamily
designation with a maximum density of 18 units per acre. There are no existing uses on
Redwood Road that match the requested zoning. Most existing RM-18 zoning is on the
west side of Riverton along the Mountain View corridor and 12600 South. Those apartments
were part of larger, master-planned developments of 40-plus acres. The only existing similar
development on the east side of Riverton is a senior apartment complex south of the post
office that was developed under the Elderly Housing Overlay Zone.

In response to a question, it was clarified that the RM-18 zone allows for both apartments
and condominiums.

The applicant, Barbara Catron, stated that she has lived in Riverton for 13 years and has
roots extending back to old Riverton. She lives in the oldest school and church house in the
City, which was built by her ancestors in 1880. She purchased two homes along Redwood
Road, now known as Beckstead Manor, which was rezoned to C-PO and is occupied by
seven active businesses. A portion of the subject site was purchased prior to the widening
of Redwood Road and the additional parcels were purchased after the widening. The
parcels are not as deep as most lots along Redwood Road, and they were initially unsure of
what they wanted to develop on the site. They believe the best use for the parcel is
multifamily. Ms. Catron presented a Concept Plan showing parking and green space and
stated that she believes it would be a great plan for the area.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Ms. Catron stated that they had no
interest in building a single-family home on the parcel. They considered commercial but
there is a lot of vacant office and retail space in Riverton. She loves what they have done
with Beckstead Manor but it was hard to fill. The site is on Redwood Road and near
Bangerter Highway and I-15, and she feels like it is a great area for multi-family, affordable
housing.

In response to a question from Commissioner Park, Ms. Catron clarified that the building
would be a multifamily condominium, not mixed-use. It would be three floors of living space.

Commissioner Cluff expressed a concern about potential parking issues. Architectural
Engineer, Ben Jensen stated that access to parking would be from the rear of the lot. There
would be 60 parking spaces for approximately 27 one- and two-bedroom units. On the
Redwood Road side, there would be some apartments and common space. The rear of
the first floor would be parking with a common patio above.

Commissioner Beck asked if the concept is a lower-income facility. Ms. Catron stated that
she was unable to comment on that at the time. Mr. Jensen stated that the one-bedroom
units would be approximately 700 square feet, and the two-bedroom units would be 1,1000
square feet.

Chair Matheson asked if the applicant had considered a lower density. Ms. Catron stated
that they considered it but they feel the RM-18 density best fits the space.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 7
September 12, 2024


Chair Matheson opened the public hearing.

Ashley Mobley stated that the subject property was previously owned by her grandparents,
and her brother resided there as well. She believed that, if developed properly, there would
be interest in a single-family home on the property. She does not believe the zoning change
would be best for Riverton because high-density housing creates a different environment,
but she would be in favor of lower-density housing such as a retirement community. She
understands the need for compromise and progress, but she believes it is an aggressive
plan. There are schools nearby, and it is near a major crosswalk. She asked if a “for sale”
sign was ever posted to allow residents the opportunity to purchase the property. She
believes approval would lower property values and would not be in the City’s best interest,
and it would not affect Ms. Catron because she does not live in the area.

Mark Webb stated that he gasped when he heard they wanted to rezone to RM-18, but as
the proposal went on, he realized it was a great use for the corner. He asked what else
could be put on that blighted corner of Redwood Road. He would like to see more parking
below street level because there would be nowhere for visitors to park, but he likes the
proposal and thinks it would add good, affordable housing in Riverton.

Ryan Rudd said that they might want to question the comment about the property not being
successful for a single-family home. He owns 1.5 acres that adjoins the Montessori School
parcel. As of the previous evening, he had three offers on one of the 0.5-acre parcels. He
purchased the parcels, developed them, and listed them for sale with the RR-22 designation.
He understands the property owners’ revenue model, but his parcels are almost the same
design. There is a private lane on the right side and 0.5-acre parcels on the left side. He
lives on the other side of the private lane. He believes the property owner could sell the lots
for $1.5 million if they were set up like his parcels, and there is no reason to have multi-
family housing there. He has done what the property owner indicated they cannot do, and
he would be happy to tell them how the homes were built and marketed. They are getting
top dollar for the parcels. He did not want the Planning Commission to think that the zoning
needed to be changed. They purchased the property with the zoning in place and the
parcels are not oddly shaped. They would sell like hotcakes. If the applicant desired smaller,
0.25 or 0.33-acre lots, that would be a more reasonable request.

Al Buehler lives four lots to the north of the subject property. He strongly opposes the
rezoning request for many reasons. At 18 units per acre, 27 units would be allowed on the
property. The average Utah household is 3.19 people, which would mean approximately 86
people on 1.5 acres. He believes there will be two or more people in each one-bedroom
unit. There will only be parking for 45 vehicles, but the building could hold 86 people.
Ms. Catron talked about affordable housing for Riverton, but if the zoning is changed, they
can buy his house for pennies on the dollar because his property value will go down, along
with everyone else within 1,000 feet of the parcel. He indicated that the Catron family owns
a lot of property, including 1.5 acres on 1300 West where they can build an RM-18
development. He thinks the proposal is ludicrous and aggressive.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   8
September 12, 2024


Craig Hiller stated that he lives across the street from the subject property. The traffic would
dump onto 13200 South and with that many units and cars, he is very concerned about the
traffic and parking. He compared it to 16300 West near the multi-family units, which he
stated is a dangerous street. He can see people parking on 13200 West, and it will be
dangerous for children walking to and from Riverton Elementary and anyone else traveling
in the area.

Chad Collins lives east of the subject property and is against rezoning. He noted that they
have battled this before when a property approximately five lots north of the subject property
requested similar rezoning. Residents fought the proposal, and the property was instead
rezoned to allow 0.33 acre lots. The proposal is out of character for the area and is not the
right fit. They also own at least one more acre directly south of it, so it is possible that they
would want to put another 18 units per acre on the south side of the road, and allowing the
rezoning would set that precedent.

Greg Smith stated that he has lived in Riverton for 36 years and does not believe multifamily
housing belongs in the area. It is out of character and will add traffic to 13200 South. He is
okay with rezoning to Professional Office or keeping it RR-22.

Missy Collard lives to the east of the subject property and opposes the proposal. Regarding
the lots to the north that were contested and later rezoned to 0.33 acres, she knows several
people who are planning to build on those lots and are very happy. The property owner
originally wanted high-density housing, but the lots are valuable. She hoped that the
Planning Commission would remember that it is not the neighbors' or Planning
Commission’s job to ensure that developers are making the most from their investment.
They purchased the property with RR-22 zoning, and keeping the current zoning is what is
best for the neighborhood. If land does not sell right away, that is not a bad thing. It could
be valuable in the future.

Sherri Lloyd is a member of the Riverton Heritage Group and indicated that they sent a letter
in opposition to the zoning change. She asked about the possibility of a moratorium on
applications until the Master Plan is completed and they know what the City wants Redwood
Road to look like. She believes the City should come together to devise an idea of what is
possible, whether it is commercial or residential. She adamantly opposed the proposal.

Cindy Feldt lives south of the subject property, and the proposal does not fit with the
neighborhood. People live there because they love the rural feel of having a half-acre
property to take care of. Her brother lives in Vineyard, where they are inundated with high-
density apartment buildings. She knows that there are parking requirements for high-density
housing, but because of the high cost of living, students in Vineyard are sharing apartments,
and they all have cars. There are only two spaces available per apartment, but they have
four to six cars per unit and parking is a mess.

Joyce Houston lives in the neighborhood. She recognizes that cities need to grow and
progress, and she understands that the property owner wants a return on their investment.
Her husband owns a handful of rentals, and he is very careful about the people he rents to.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                9
September 12, 2024


With this aggressive plan, the property owners do not seem to care about the neighborhood.
Residents are fortunate to live there. They love their homes and yards, and they know their
children will have a hard time buying something similar. Ms. Canton stated that it would be
affordable housing but did not provide costs, so it might not be affordable. Ms. Houston lives
on a lane on the canal. When her neighbors have parties, there is nowhere to park, and
they end up parking on 13200 South. It is dangerous for anyone driving because 13200
South does not have a real shoulder. If that happens closer to Redwood Road, to the
schools, and where children walk, it will be a major safety issue.

Dave Mobley was aware of the price of progress, but his concerns mirror those of his
neighbors. Eighteen units per acre is very high density for the area. He also does not
believe the building’s architecture matches other buildings in the area. Traffic on 13200
South would be insane, and it is already hard for cars to get in and out of the Montessori
School. Additionally, cars line the road for funerals and fill up Jared Circle. He is also
concerned about the type of people affordable housing could bring into the area and the
potential increase in crime.

Rachelle Fjord lives on Jerod Circle and referred to a survey that was sent to residents
asking what they were interested in seeing on Redwood Road. She believes the results of
the survey could help the City understand what residents want, and she does not believe
they want high-density housing. Chair Matheson stated that the Planning Commission was
not a part of the survey and had no information on it, so they would not be able to speak to
it. It was noted that the results of the survey were published on the Riverton City website.
Ms. Fjord asked the Commission to consider tabling the matter until they could review the
survey and determine what the people of Riverton want because she is certain the City does
not want to go in this direction.

Traci Hardy was opposed to rezoning. She believes the density is too high and it does not
fit the area. She is also concerned about children walking to and from school, especially
when they cross Redwood Road. High-density housing would increase traffic, and she does
not want anything to happen to the children. She has never seen a “for sale” sign on the
property. She believes 0.25 or 0.33-acre lots with new homes would be a great addition to
the area.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff agreed that RM-18 would be too much density for the parcel. With
apartment-style housing, spillover parking is inevitable. A lot of apartment complexes are
on streets that can handle excess parking, but that is not the case with this parcel. It is a
quiet, calm neighborhood with large lots, and it is not suitable for high-density living. She
believes that approval of this type of project should be tabled until the General Plan is
completed and they have a clear idea of the long-term plan for Redwood Road.

Commissioner Beck agreed with Commissioner Cluff. She asked when the survey referred
to by Ms. Fjord was completed. Mr. Prestwich indicated that the survey was completed in
2018 and updated in 2023. The questions were very broad. There was at least one question
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                10
September 12, 2024


about what residents would like to see along Redwood Road, but it did not speak specifically
to Land Use. Staff will make the survey results available to the Planning Commission.

Chair Matheson stated that going from RR-22 to RM-18 is beyond what he believes is
appropriate. He has seen where the applicant lives and understands that she has done
some great things, but he believes this type of density is not right for the area. He would
readily consider a private lane and single-family homes on smaller lots.

Commissioner Knudsen stated that the parcel owner has the right to develop it, but he is not
sure this is the right fit. He also does not believe 0.5 acre lots belong on one of the busiest
roads in Riverton. He believes it should be commercial or low-density residential.

Commissioner Keele believes big projects should be tabled until completion of the General
Plan so they know the best use for these types of properties along Redwood Road.

Commissioner Park agreed that property owners have rights, but their right is currently to
develop the property with RR-22 zoning. The Commission was asked to change those rights
to a usage the Commissioners agree is incongruent with the area, and they have the
authority to help ensure that the area is developed appropriately and in a way that is
sustainable for future use. The thing that makes it more palatable is that they would be
privately owned condominiums, not rentals, but the usage is still too heavy. As the City goes
through the General Plan review and update, they may identify more desirable uses for the
property owner to consider.

Commissioner Knudsen asked if any other RM-18-zoned parcels in the City are not part of
a master-planned development. It was clarified that the only RM-18 zoning is part of master-
planned communities, with the exception of the development in the Elderly Housing Overlay
Zone. Commissioner Knudsen agreed that the proposal was aggressive and asked about
the density of the development north of the Petersen development. Mr. Prestwich clarified
that it was zoned for 14 units per acre, but they did not achieve that density. The limiting
factor for multifamily is primarily based on traffic. Parking and traffic access determine the
actual number of allowable units per acre. In this case, being so close to the corner, it is
unlikely that the property could support 18 units per acre with a single point of access. Most
multifamily developments have a lower final density. RR-14 is the next lowest designation
below RR-18.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL of
Application PLZ-24-4005, for rezoning 1.5 acres located at 13191, 13171, and 13153
South Redwood Road, thus keeping the property designated as Low-Density
Residential in the General Plan and keeping the current zoning of RR-22 (0.5-acre
lots). Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.
SUBMITTED PUBLIC COMMENT
Public Comment #1


Dear Planning Commission -

My name is Corie Soderman, I live at 1754 West 13235 S.

I want to strongly oppose the rezoning of these parcels from RR-22 Low density housing to RM-18 High
density housing.

I do not want to have condos, townhouses or apartments by my home. I feel that this will just add to the
already heavy traffic on Redwood Rd, increased school populations and the increased crime level
that always accompanies the more transient (rental) population.

This is a community of larger properties - and we need to keep those larger parcels of land as they are
currently zoned.

Thank you -

Corie Soderman
Public Comment #2




To whom it may concern,



This is the third time you have tried to rezone this piece of property. The answer is NO NO, all these
homes have 1/2 acre lots, most of them still have animals on them.



This is a community with homes, with property. Put the same on this piece of property.



It is sad that Riverton only thinks of money, and not the people that live in these areas.



So once again I say NO to this happening.



Thank you for your time,



Sue Lovendahl

13126 So. 1830 W.

Riverton, UT
Public Comment 4




I had a phone call from a concerned neighbor who is opposed to the Catron Rezone and wanted to leave
their feedback anonymously but on the record as opposed.



Lisa Halversen

Planning Department
Public Comment 5



Dear Mr. Lethbridge

We have important concerns about changing the zoning on the properties listed above from residential
to commercial for a insurance company. In addition, the other parcels from residential to high density, possibly
building townhouses or apartments on these properties. Those concerns are:
1. Precidence has already been set denying change to high density dwellings on the property North of Riverton
Ranch Road and Redwood Rd. If this plan is approved, there is no doubt the prior developer would re-apply for
high density dwelling permit.
2. High density dwellings would be next to a Montessori school with traffic concerns interfering with children
being dropped off and picked up during peak times of the day.
3. Also on this same point, children coming east from Riverton Elementary School crossing at 13200 S Redwood
would be impacted by increased traffic during during the same time period. This is a MAJOR safety concern since
cars already are exceeding the speed limit in this area. We are concerned not only for the children but also the
crossing guards.
4. High density dwellings would dilute the integrity of the current residential neighborhood. We are concerned
about the impact of high density dwellings, such as inadequate parking that currently exists on 1630 West north of
12800 South and increased traffic in our neighborhood. The proposed development would exacerbate these
issues as egress and ingress would impact the local roads, like 13200 S next to the Montessori school. Driving on
1630 West is hard to navigate now because of parked cars next to the high density dwellings.
5. Our biggest concern is Safety because this would increase traffic on 13200 South and also on Redwood Road.
6. It has already been shown that residential neighborhoods can exist on this type of property as exemplified the
development south of 13400 South and Redwood Road.

Being consistent in our planning for the city will only enhance and protect our community.

Your consideration is appreciated.

Sincerely,

Craig and Holly Hiller
1621 West 13200 South
Riverton, UT
Public Comment 6


Hi Jason,


I am writing to express my disappointment that we are once again entertaining a rezone
for High Density Multi-Family residential housing.


Once again I would like to reiterate my concerns over parking, increased traffic and the
safety of our pedestrian traffic and how that is not acceptable to our constituents.


We are opposed to this proposal and will be there in person to convey our disapproval
of this rezoning request.


If this is being tabulated by your team please count this as 2 constituents opposed.


--

Thanks,



Dan & Cindy Venerus
Public Comment 7


I took a phone call in opposition to the Catron rezone. The resident wished to
remain anonymous.


Lisa Halversen
9/12/24
2:30 pm
