                                     City Council Meeting Agenda
                                           October 21, 2025


PRESENTER:                Jason Lethbridge

                          Ordinance No. 25-24 - Site Plan Development Standards Amendments -
                          Amendments and clarifications to Section 18.215.030 "Site Plan Development
ITEM:
                          Standards". Amendments proposed by Riverton City Jason Lethbridge,
                          Development Services Director

SUMMARY:

This is a public hearing to consider proposed changes to Riverton City Code relating to Landscaping
Standards in Chapter 18.215 Site Plan Review and Standards. These changes are intended to clean up
existing city code without adding additional regulations.

These changes are proposed by Riverton City staff. Earlier this year the city made changes to the
Architectural Requirements in the Site Plan Development Standards. During that process, staff noticed
several inconsistencies and outdated references in the Landscape Guidelines. These proposed
changes will clarify what types of land uses are included, what standards apply, how trees are selected,
and who approves a landscaping plan.

The proposed changes designate the Land Use Authority as the approving body for landscape plans in
all industrial, commercial, institutional, and muti-unit developments.

FISCAL IMPACT:            N/A

FUNDING SOURCE:           N/A

ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance No. 25-24 - Site Plan Landscaping Code Amend Ordinance.pdf
25-24 Site Plan Landscaping Code Amnd CC Report.pdf

RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:

On September 25, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this proposed code
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission recommended
approval, with the following recommended motion: I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 25-24, by
amending the Riverton City Code 18.215.030 “Site Plan Development Standards” as shown.




                                                                                                           1
