                            MEMORANDUM
To:           Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:         Planning Department
Date:         May 21, 2024
Subject:      Ordinance 24-07, “Homestead 2 Rezone” Rezone of approximately 9.26-
              acres located at 12701 South 3600 West from RR-22 and C-PO with an
              Elderly Housing Overlay/ Special Designations to RM-6 (Residential Medium-
              Density). Applicant- Rulon Dutson, David Weekley Homes


On April 25, 2024, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review the proposed
rezone. Minutes from that meeting will be provided once transcribed. The Planning
Commission forwarded a recommendation of approval, with the following suggested motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 24-07, rezoning 9.26-acres located at 12701
South 3600 West, to change the zoning to RM-6-SD (Residential Medium-Density), with the
following Specific Development Designations:
     1. Homestead Phases 1 & 2 shall be age restricted compliant with all applicable laws to
        55 and older for a minimum of 80% of units.
     2. Units shall not front onto Water Street, and no individual driveway access onto Water
        Street shall be allowed.
     3. All other approved elements for Homestead Phase 1 shall remain in effect.


Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant, David Weekley
Homes, for two parcels totaling 9.26-acres located at 12701 South 3600 West. The requested
zone is Residential Medium-Density (RM-6). Specifically, this is for additional property to be
incorporated into the existing Homestead Subdivision as Phase 2, but the zoning for the entire
project is being updated for consistency and clarity. No changes are being made to density or
terms of the original approval.

David Weekly Homes is currently building Homestead Subdivision which is single-family
detached housing on about 7.74-acres near 3600 West and Water Street. Homestead
Subdivision has 45 lots, that are 5,000-sf and above. It has a complicated zoning designation
of C-PO with an Elderly Housing Overlay, together with two (2) Specific Development
Designations. The Zoning on Homestead Subdivision was first put in place in February 2021
(Riverton City Ordinance 21-02), and modified in December 2021 (see Riverton City Ordinance
21-34).

The Homestead Subdivision was approved by the Planning Commission in October 2022, and
presently has all the infrastructure installed, several homes occupied, and more homes under
 construction. From all accounts the subdivision has been successful, and the homes are in
 demand. Based on this success David Weekly looked for ways to add additional land to their
 homestead community.

 David Weekly has an option to purchase a portion of the vacant property that sits north of their
 development, it is the eastern portion of the LDS church chapel site that was never
 developed. David Weekly would like to use the vacant ground to expand Homestead
 Subdivision into Homestead Phase 2 which would likely add 8 additional lots. A rezone is the
 first of many steps towards creating Homestead Phase 2 (more public hearings and plans
 would follow).

 The LDS Church property is zoned RR-22 (Single Family Residential with ½-acre lots and
 animal rights). This rezone request would only rezone that portion of the LDS church property
 which David Weekly would purchase for the expansion of Homestead Subdivision, most of the
 LDS Church property (the existing building, parking lot and landscaping) would be unaffected
 and would keep its RR-22 Zoning.

 David Weekly’s intentions are to build the same type of housing on similarly sized lots, so it
 would seem the rezone request would be to the same zoning as Homestead Phase 1.
 However, there was a significant change to Riverton City Code for Elderly Housing that make it
 impossible to use the same complicated zoning found in Homestead Phase 1 to create the
 same results in an adjoining Homestead Phase 2.

 In April of 2021, City Ordinance 21-10 changed the Elderly Housing Overlay (EHOV). Before
 the change, the EHOV could be applied to commercially zoned property to allow Elderly
 Housing on the commercial property, as it was applied to Homestead Ph 1. After the change,
 EHOV can only be applied to residentially zoned properties, it requires a certain number of
 elderly housing design elements, and grants density bonuses.      Because of the change to the
 EHOV we cannot use the Homestead Ph 1 base zoning of C-PO with an Elderly Housing Overly
 to get the same outcome in Homestead Ph 2.

 The change to the EHOV code also makes life very confusing for buyers, lenders, and
 underwriters in Homestead Ph 1. Staff has received more than one phone call asking if the
 Homestead Phase 1 single family detached houses are legal in the C-PO zone. The
 complicated zoning designation creates confusion.

 This rezone application can resolve the confusing zoning of Homestead Ph 1 and allow for the
 same type of development in Homestead Ph 2. Placing all the property in the same zone will
 reduce confusion to potential property owners, neighbors, and city staff and officials. By
 rezoning both areas to RM-6 with an SD the same development standard would apply. This
 application would resolve uncertainty about Phase 1 and also allow for the creation of Phase 2.

The Planning Commission forwarded this to the City Council with a recommendation of approval.

 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

        1.   Public Notice including Area Map.
        2.   Rezone Application.
        3.   Area Zoning Map.
        4.   Rezone Ordinance from February 16, 2021.
        5.   Rezone Ordinance from December 14, 2021.
rivertonutah.gov
Subject
Property
rivertonutah.gov
