                    Riverton City Work Session / Council Meeting
                                    January 7, 2020
____________________________________________________________________________

FROM:          Ryan Carter, City Attorney

ITEM:          Resolution No. 20-05 - Authorizing the Mayor to execute a revised and restated
               Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between public entities to create and govern the
               Unified Fire Authority

SUMMARY:

The Unified Fire Authority (“Authority”) provides emergency fire, medical, and related first
responder services to Riverton City and other communities within Salt Lake County. The Authority
has provided said services under the terms of an Interlocal Agreement, first executed in January
of 2004. Riverton City was a founding member of the Authority under the Interlocal Agreement.

Since this time, the membership in the Unified Fire Authority has changed, most notably after the
2015 session of the Utah Legislature. It was during this legislative session when Senate Bill 199
was passed into law, which granted townships located within unincorporated areas of Salt
Lake County the full legal status of municipalities such as Riverton. This in turn triggered the
need to reassess how said townships-turn municipalities would be represented on the governing
boards of interlocal entities such as the Authority. The governing body of the Authority, therefore,
has considered this question and several others related to the administration of services by the
Authority, which has culminated in a revised Interlocal Agreement, enclosed with this packet.

During the January 7 meeting of the Riverton City Council, Councilmember Stewart and the City
Attorney’s office will lead a discussion regarding the most substantive changes to the enclosed
Interlocal Agreement, when compared to the original agreement executed in the year 2004.



FISCAL IMPACT: N/A

FUNDING SOURCE: N/A

ATTACHMENTS:

   1. Proposed Ordinance No. 19-05
   2. Staff Report

RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:

I move the Riverton City Council adopt Resolution No. 20-05 - Authorizing the Mayor to execute
a Revised and Restated Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between public entities to create and
govern the Unified Fire Authority.
                                       RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
                                       RESOLUTION NO. 20-05

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO EXECUTE A REVISED AND RESTATED
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN PUBLIC ENTITIES TO CREATE
                AND GOVERN THE UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY

         WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-202 provides that any two or more public agencies may
enter into an Agreement with one another “to provide services that they are each authorized by statute to
provide;” and

       WHEREAS, Riverton City (the “City”), the UNIFIED FIRE SERVICE AREA (the “Service
Area”), SALT LAKE COUNTY (“County”), the TOWN OF ALTA (“Alta”), COPPERTON
METRO TOWNSHIP (“Copperton”), the city of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS (“Cottonwood
Heights”), EAGLE MOUNTAIN CITY (“Eagle Mountain”), EMIGRATION METRO
TOWNSHIP (“Emigration”), HERRIMAN CITY (“Herriman”), the CITY OF HOLLADAY
(“Holladay”), KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP (“Kearns”), MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
(“Magna”), MIDVALE CITY (“Midvale”), MILLCREEK (“Millcreek”), RIVERTON CITY
(“Riverton”), TAYLORSVILLE CITY (“Taylorsville”), and WHITE CITY METRO
TOWNSHIP (“White City”), are all political subdivisions of the State of Utah, and are public
agencies (collectively, the "Parties") as contemplated in the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §
11-13-1101, et seq.; and

        WHEREAS, The Parties are each authorized by law to provide services in form of fire
protection, and other first responder emergency services; and

        WHEREAS, since the year 2004, the City, the County, and several other entities located
within the territory of the County, established the UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY (“Authority”) via
an interlocal agreement effective on January 1, 2004, to provide fire protection, emergency medical, and
other services to the entities which established the Authority; and

        WHEREAS, the City is a participating member within the boundaries of the Service Area, and
through it, contributes to the funding of the Authority; and

       WHEREAS, membership in the Authority, and the legal climate which supports the Authority,
have undergone significant changes since the Authority was created in the year 2004; and

        WHEREAS, the Parties desire that the Authority continue to provide fire suppression, rescue,
emergency medical, emergency protection, and related services to the Parties, but that the Authority do so
under the terms of an Interlocal Agreement which is revised and restated to set the terms and existence of
the Authority to provide the services described in this Resolution in a manner which best honors Utah
law; and

      NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BODY OF RIVERTON
CITY AS FOLLOWS:

        1. The Mayor is hereby authorized to sign, on behalf of the City, a revised and restated Interlocal
           Cooperation Agreement, in a manner substantially similar to the form attached hereto as
           Exhibit A, between the Parties to create and govern the Unified Fire Authority.
      2. The Mayor is hereby authorized to sign, on behalf of the City, any and all documents necessary
         to facilitate the execution of the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement attached hereto.

      3. All documents to be executed by the Mayor pursuant to this resolution shall first be approved
         as to legal form by the Riverton City Attorney.

      4. The Resolution shall take effect immediately.

       PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, and this 7th day of
January 2020 by the following vote:

                                          YES         NO
      City Council Member Tish Buroker    ____        ____
      City Council Member Tawnee McCay ____           ____
      City Council Member Troy McDougal ____          ____
      City Council Member Sheldon Stewart ____        ____
      City Council Member Claude Wells    ____        ____

                                                      RIVERTON CITY

               [SEAL]

                                                      ____________________________________
ATTEST:                                               Trent Staggs, Mayor



____________________________________
Virginia Loader, Recorder
EXHIBIT A
        REVISED AND RESTATED INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
              BETWEEN PUBLIC ENTITIES TO CREATE AND GOVERN
                       THE UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY

       This Revised and Restated Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (this “2019 Agreement”) is

made and entered into as of the 1st day of December 2019, to be effective when all of the

conditions identified in Paragraph 27 of this 2019 Agreement have been satisfied, by and

between the UNIFIED FIRE SERVICE AREA, a local district and political subdivision of the

state of Utah (the “Service Area”); SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic

(“County”); the TOWN OF ALTA (“Alta”), COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP

(“Copperton”), the city of COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS (“Cottonwood Heights”), EAGLE

MOUNTAIN CITY (“Eagle Mountain”), EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP (“Emigration”),

HERRIMAN CITY (“Herriman”), the CITY OF HOLLADAY (“Holladay”), KEARNS

METRO TOWNSHIP (“Kearns”), MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP (“Magna”), MIDVALE

CITY (“Midvale”), MILLCREEK (“Millcreek”), RIVERTON CITY (“Riverton”),

TAYLORSVILLE CITY (“Taylorsville”), and WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP (“White

City”), all municipal corporations and political subdivisions of the State of Utah. All of the

above may be referred to individually as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.” Alta,

Cottonwood Heights, and Holladay may be referred to collectively at times as the “Contracting

Entities.” The remaining Parties, excluding the Service Area, may be referred to collectively at

times as the “Service Area Members.” The interlocal entity described herein is referred to as the

UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY (the “Authority”) and will also be considered a Party to this 2019

Agreement.




                                                 1
                                            RECITALS

       A.      Several of the Parties, as well as other entities no longer affiliated with the

Authority, established the Authority via interlocal agreement effective January 1, 2004, which

was also subsequently amended (the “2004 Agreement”).

       B.      The original membership of the Authority has changed over the course of its

history, with the City of Draper exiting the Authority, the establishment of the Service Area as a

taxing district for the purposes of funding the provision of services by the Authority to the

Service Area Members, the incorporation of Millcreek and the metro townships (formerly a part

of the unincorporated area of the County), and the annexation of a number of municipalities into

the Service Area.

       C.      Throughout these changes and since its creation in 2004, the Authority has been a

provider of fire suppression, emergency medical, and related services to its member

municipalities and unincorporated Salt Lake County.

       D.      The Parties to this 2019 Agreement desire that the Authority continue to provide

fire suppression, rescue services, emergency medical services, emergency protection, and related

services to the Parties. The Parties believe that the depth of service provided by the Authority

ensures that their communities are receiving consistent and high quality service.

       E.      Because of the significant changes in the membership of the Authority, as well as

lessons learned since its creation in 2004, the Parties agree that a revised and restated interlocal

agreement is the best means of setting forth the terms and conditions of the continued existence

and governance of the Authority. This 2019 Agreement is therefore intended to, and does, revise




                                                  2
and replace, in its entirety, the 2004 Agreement establishing the Authority, including any

amendments thereto.

       F.      Pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101 et seq.

(the “Interlocal Cooperation Act”), the Parties, all of which are “public agencies” for the

purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, are authorized to enter into this 2019 Agreement and

to thereby maintain an interlocal entity for the provision of fire suppression, rescue services,

emergency medical services, emergency protection, and related services to the Parties.

       G.      The Parties desire to enter into this 2019 Agreement to affirm the creation of the

Authority, refine the description of its membership, and revise the governance of, and terms and

conditions of service by, the Authority.

                                           AGREEMENT

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises of the

Parties and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are

hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

       1.      Interlocal Entity. Pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Parties agree to

the continued existence of the Authority as a separate political subdivision and body politic and

corporate of the state of Utah, as established pursuant the 2004 Agreement, subject to the revised

and restated terms and condition found in this 2019 Agreement.

       2.      Name. The legal entity will continue to be known as the Unified Fire Authority.

       3.      Summary of Scope of Services to be Provided by Authority. The scope and

type of services provided to the Parties by the Authority will be determined through the regular

adoption and maintenance of a strategic plan and other policies of the Authority, adherence to

standards of emergency response coverage, and the annual budget process as determined by the



                                                  3
Authority’s Board of Directors (the “Board”). The following guidelines are intended to inform

these processes for those geographical areas in which the Authority will directly provide

services:

   4. The Authority will staff engines and trucks with three or more firefighters in a manner to

       maintain coverage and response reliability within each community.

            a. In urban and suburban areas, a Party (or in conjunction with another Party or

               applicable building authority collectively established by Parties) will own or

               construct, and provide capital maintenance for, fire stations to be used by the

               Authority that facilitate a four-minute travel time within its built-upon area. The

               expectation will be for the Authority to maintain a service level that provides an

               Insurance Services Office (“ISO”), or similar successor rating agency,

               suppression rating of 3 or better.

            b. In rural/interface areas that are not yet significantly built-upon (as designated and

               identified by the ISO), a Party (or in conjunction with another Party or applicable

               building authority collectively established by Parties) will own or construct, and

               provide capital maintenance for, fire stations to be used by the Authority, that will

               meet the requirements for an ISO suppression rating of 9 (3X) or better.

            c. At the time of execution of this 2019 Agreement, the currently existing or planned

               stations are consistent with these guidelines.

       5.      Baseline Services. The following baseline services (“Baseline Services”) are to

be included in the member fee (“Member Fee”) described in Paragraph 5. Additional Baseline

Services to be included in the annual Member Fee must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the

Board as part of its budgetary process. The Member Fee will constitute the payment mechanism



                                                    4
by which the Parties pay the Authority for the Baseline Services provided and will be established

by the Board during the Authority’s budget process:

            a. Service Delivery:

                   i. Fire Suppression.

                   ii. Advanced and Basic Life Support First Response and emergency

                       transport.

                  iii. Fire Prevention, including Fire Code review and enforcement.

                  iv. Fire / Arson Investigation and Bomb Squad.

                   v. Public Information and Community Events.

                  vi. Special Operations: hazardous materials, heavy rescue, search and rescue,

                       and surface water rescue.

            b. Support Services. Support services such as administration, finance, legal, human

               resources, information technology, medical, training, and logistics necessary for

               the delivery of the services stated above.

            c. Capital Purchasing. Timely payment of all debt obligations incurred in capital

               purchasing and replacement of apparatus and equipment necessary for the

               delivery of the services stated above.

       6.      Member Fee. Fees and costs for services attributable to the Member Fee will be

transparently disclosed and stated with reasonable specificity in each annual budget adopted by

the Board. The Board will adopt policies that allow for the guidance and development of the

budget. Parties will be provided reasonable notice prior to any significant change in the level of

services or reallocation of the Authority’s resources compared to the prior fiscal year. Each

                                                   5
Contracting Entity will be charged an individual Member Fee and the Service Area will be

charged one Member Fee for all of the Service Area Members. Service Area Members will not

be charged an individual Member Fee.

       7.      County-wide Fire and Emergency Services. The County (not the other Parties) may

budget funds from its County-wide fund to provide county-wide services (“County-wide

Services”). Funding for County-wide Services will be separate from fees and other funding

agreements provided under this 2019 Agreement. The Authority will prepare a budget request for

the County in such form and follow such timelines and procedures as regularly established by the

County. The nature and level of County-wide Services provided by the Authority will be in

accordance with the funding budgeted by the County. County-wide Services will be integrated

into the command structure and organization of the Authority and include the following:

            a. Emergency Operation Center and Emergency Planning. Providing emergency

               services including grant administration; preparing, drafting and reviewing

               emergency operation plans for County-wide emergency services in accordance

               with requirements of federal and state statutes and for use by other government

               agencies in times of disaster or other emergencies; and providing local emergency

               planning committee services.

            b. Recreation Area Services. Providing fire and emergency medical protection services

               to areas designated as recreational areas pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §17-34-101,

               et. seq., or any similar successor provision.

            c. Additional County-wide Services. Additional County-wide Services may be

               established by separate agreement between the Authority and the County without

               the need to amend this 2019 Agreement.



                                                 6
       8.       Enhanced Services. A Party may individually enhance the level of Baseline

Services provided by the Authority to that Party at an additional cost. The enhancement, cost,

and start date of the new enhanced service (“Enhanced Services”) are subject to pre-approval by

the Board. The additional fee for Enhanced Services will accrue as of the date such services

begin and be due and payable as part of that Party’s Member Fee as provided for in this 2019

Agreement or, in the case of a Party that is part of the Service Area, a separate Enhanced

Services fee paid separately to UFA by the Party receiving such services.

       9.       External Contract Services. By separate agreements, other agencies may

receive and separately fund services. The Board must approve the extension of external contract

services. Examples of current external contracts services being provided include:

             a. Urban Search & Rescue program funded by FEMA grants.

             b. Camp Williams Fire Management Officer and suppression funded by the Utah

                National Guard.

             c. Utah Data Center protection funded by the Utah Military Installation

                Development Authority.

             d. The JATC fire school program funded by the Jordan School District.

       10.      Governance and Administration of Authority. The Authority’s governing

body is its Board, which is comprised of representatives of the Parties served by the Authority

(each of which is a “Board Member”). Although the Service Area is a Party to this 2019

Agreement, its role is to act as a taxing district to pay for the Authority’s services for the benefit

of its members, and will therefore not have any separate, direct representation on the Board

beyond its individual members’ participation on the Board.



                                                   7
a. Board of Directors.

       i. Each city and metro township to which the Authority provides services

          will receive a position on the Board, regardless of whether they are a

          Contracting Entity or Service Area Member.

      ii. The County will receive two positions on the Board. One Board Member

          will be the County Mayor, or a Deputy Mayor or Associate Deputy Mayor

          as designated by the County Mayor, and one Board Member will be

          appointed from the County Council.

      iii. Except for the County as provided for in subparagraph a(ii), each Board

          Member must at all times be an elected official of the Party and either a

          mayor or councilmember of the municipality’s governing body.

      iv. A Party may designate, on an annual basis, an “alternate” Board Member

          (who must still qualify under subsections a.ii and a.iii above and be

          designated in writing to the Authority), to attend and fully participate,

          including voting, in Board meetings on behalf of the Party if that Party’s

          designated regular Board Member is unable to attend. Board Members are

          encouraged to appear remotely via phone or video if they are unable to

          attend in person before utilizing this option and to provide as much notice

          as possible to staff that the alternate will be attending.

       v. Board Members will serve indefinitely at the pleasure of the appointing

          entity. Any appointment or removal of a Board Member will be

          accompanied by a letter or resolution of appointment from the applicable

          Party notifying the Authority of such action.



                                     8
      vi. Board meetings, and all actions taken thereby, will require a quorum be

          present and will operate in compliance with the Open and Public Meetings

          Act (Utah Code Ann. §52-4-101, et seq.), or successor applicable open

          meetings law.

     vii. Matters related to the operation of the Board, such as meeting times, the

          conduct of meetings, chair and vice-chair appointments, etc. will be

          established and adopted by the Board as written policies and procedures.

    viii. Recognizing the significant time commitment in Board participation,

          Board Members may, at the discretion of the Board, receive an annual

          stipend in an amount to be determined by the Board pursuant to the annual

          budget process for their participation on the Board. While not specifically

          applicable to the Authority, the Board will comply with the requirements

          of Utah Code Ann. §10-3-818, or similar successor statutory provision, for

          any instigation or increase in said stipend. Nothing in this Agreement will

          prevent an individual Party from compensating, in its discretion, its

          representative Board Member directly for time spent on Authority matters.

b. Voting.

       i. For all matters related to the governance of the Authority, each Board

          Member will be entitled to one vote on the Board and matters, unless

          otherwise specifically stated herein, will be passed by a vote of at least a

          majority of the Board at a duly noticed meeting; i.e., the affirmative vote

          of at least a majority of all Board Members rather than a majority of a

          quorum of the Board Members present at the particular meeting.



                                    9
ii. In regards to any proposed vote of the Board, to be taken pursuant to

   subsection (b)(i) above, to adopt a fiscal year’s tentative or final budget, or

   to adopt any budget amendment, any two Board Members (or alternates)

   representing separate Parties who are present at a Board Meeting may call

   for a “weighted vote,” at which time, after an opportunity for discussion

   and deliberation by the Board, a vote will be taken on such issue based

   upon a weighted voting system with the weight of each Board Member’s

   vote being determined as follows:

       1. A “Member Fee Percentage” will be calculated by computing the

           percentage each Party is paying for the Authority’s services in

           comparison to the total of all Member Fees (Member Fees for this

           calculation do not include payments for County-wide services

           provided for in Paragraph 6). UFSA will not be considered a Party

           for this calculation as its Member Fee in comparison to the total of

           all Member Fees will be allocated among its member entities in

           proportion to each Party’s taxable value for that fiscal year as

           calculated by the Utah State Tax Commission.

       2. A “Population Percentage” will be calculated by comparing a

           Party’s population to the total population of the communities

           served by the Authority, using the most recently available census

           data, as updated by the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute or other

           agency subsequently designated by the State of Utah for

           population estimates.



                             10
3. Each Party’s Member Fee Percentage and its Population

   Percentage will then be averaged (i.e. 50 percent allocation by

   Member Fee Percentage and 50% by Population Percentage) to

   create the final “Weighted Voting Percentage” for that Party.

4. The County’s Weighted Voting Percentage will be divided and

   allocated equally to each of the County’s Board Members for the

   purposes of a weighted vote. In no event will the total percentage

   of weighted voting allocated to the County Board Members exceed

   the County’s Weighted Voting Percentage.

5. An example of this calculation as it would occur as of October 1,

   2019 is attached hereto as Exhibit “B” with the calculation of the

   Member Fee Percentage shown in Table 1, the Population

   Percentage shown in Table 2, and the Weighted Voting Percentage

   shown in Table 3.

6. When weighted voting is requested under this paragraph, approval

   of the budget or amendment will pass with an affirmative vote of

   the majority of the weighted vote, i.e. a vote that exceeds fifty

   percent of the total weighted vote of all Board Members rather

   than a majority of a quorum of the Board Members present at the

   particular meeting.




                     11
c. Executive Staff:

       i. The Board will directly supervise, appoint, and be responsible for

           removing the Fire Chief/CEO of the Authority. The Board will negotiate,

           approve, and execute a written employment agreement with the Fire

           Chief/CEO setting forth the terms and conditions of employment.

       ii. The Board will directly supervise, appoint, and be responsible for

           removing the Chief Legal Officer of the Authority. The Board will

           negotiate, approve, and execute a written employment agreement with the

           Chief Legal Officer setting forth the terms and conditions of employment.

      iii. The Fire Chief will supervise the Chief Financial Officer of the Authority,

           but will require ratification of the Board for any appointment or removal

           of an individual to the position of Chief Financial Officer.

      iv. The Merit System Coordinator, as described in Exhibit A to this 2019

           Agreement, will operate pursuant to policies established by the Board and

           will report to the Board on matters related to the Authority’s Fire Merit

           System. Upon request of the Board, the Fire Chief will make a

           nomination or, at the request of the Board, nominations of a candidate or

           candidates for the position of Merit System Coordinator and the Board

           will appoint a person to the position.

       v. All other employees will be supervised by the Fire Chief pursuant to

           policies adopted by the Authority and Exhibit A to this 2019 Agreement.

d. Policies. The Board will adopt a set of Board Policies that will broadly govern

   and set the expectations for the operation of the Authority. These Board Policies



                                     12
                will inform and direct a set of operational policies created and adopted by the Fire

                Chief/CEO in consultation with the CLO and Command Staff.

       11.      Non-Station Facilities.

             a. Other Facilities. If the Authority wishes to construct an additional public safety

                facility, such as a facility for administration, logistics, training, etc., the Board

                will equitably apportion the cost to construct or remodel any such public safety

                facility that is used to provide the Baseline Services to the Parties similar to the

                apportionment of the Member Fee for Baseline Services. If the benefit of such

                facility specifically inures to one or more Parties to the exclusion of others, the

                Board may apportion the cost of such facility to the benefiting Party or Parties to

                be paid as an addition to the Member Fee (in the case of a Party who is part of the

                Service Area as a separate fee similar to one charged for Enhanced Services) or

                by the application of a Party’s collected impact fees.

             b. Transition of Stations. Should the Authority decide to discontinue its use of a fire

                station as an emergency response facility, but the Authority and the owning Party

                agree that the Authority may continue to use it for another purpose in support of

                its provision of services, the Authority will assume the capital maintenance

                responsibility for such facility and will occupy it with an annual lease payment of

                $1.00 to the owning Party.

       12.      2004 Equipment. The 2004 Agreement provided a specific description of

equipment conveyed to the Authority by the Parties then forming the Authority. The time

elapsed since the 2004 Agreement means that all or nearly all of the equipment conveyed has

been cycled through, merged with other equipment, or used to the end of its useful life. The



                                                   13
Authority represents that any such equipment detailed in the 2004 Agreement is no longer of any

value or has been so incorporated into the Authority inventory that it no longer represents

identifiable items of separate property. The Parties therefore agree to disclaim any rights to

return of property found in the 2004 Agreement and agree that disposition of any equipment to

members upon dissolution or withdrawal will be accomplished according to the provisions of

this 2019 Agreement.

       13.      Employees. The Parties (excluding the Authority) agree that no Party will have

any fiscal obligation or liability for the payment of salary, wages, benefits, or other

compensation of employees of the Authority beyond the assessment of the Member Fee.

       14.      Merit System. The Parties agree that the Authority will operate with a Merit

System for sworn fire-fighter employees as provided for in Exhibit A and any policies duly

adopted to be consistent therewith and general merit principles.

       15.      Reports, Audits, and Performance Measures.

             a. The Authority will be subject to Utah Code § 11-13-501 et seq., or successor

                provision, for accounting, reporting, budgeting, and auditing requirements, as

                modified and enhanced as determined by the Board. The functions of budget

                officer, treasurer, or any other defined function with respect to the Authority will

                be determined by policies and procedures adopted by the Board. The budgeting

                cycle for the Authority will be via a fiscal year beginning July 1 and ending June

                30 of the succeeding year.

             b. To ensure transparency, the Authority will prepare a financial report as part of the

                annual budgeting process and receive an annual audit report. Such reports will be

                both posted online and available upon request.



                                                  14
              c. The Authority will also keep records and statistics related to the performance of its

                 services and will, from time to time, prepare reports summarizing performance.

                 The Board or any individual Party may make a request for the creation of such a

                 report at any time and Authority will use its best efforts to prepare such a report in

                 a timely manner.

        16.      Indemnification. The services the Authority provides are governmental

functions and the Parties are all governmental entities under the “Governmental Immunity Act of

Utah” (Utah Code § 63G-7-101, et seq.), or successor provision (the “Immunity Act”). The

Parties do not waive any immunities, rights, or defenses available under the Immunity Act, nor

does any Party waive any limits of liability provided by the Immunity Act. Consistent with the

terms of the Immunity Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that each Party is

responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts which are committed by it or by its

agents, officials, or employees. Each Party agrees to defend, indemnify, save and hold harmless

the Authority or any other Party (including its elected and appointed officers and employees)

from and against demands, claims, actions and/or proceedings, in law or equity(including

reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of suit) relating to or arising from actions of that

Member’s elected and appointed officers or employees or the Authority’s enforcement of any

ordinances of that Party that is alleged to be unconstitutional or illegal.

        17.      Term. This 2019 Agreement will be effective as of the date it is fully approved

and executed by the Parties and, unless terminated as provided for herein, will be in effect for a

term of twenty-five years. The Parties agree that every five years this 2019 Agreement will be

brought before for the Board for review and discussion to determine if revisions are necessary to




                                                    15
better accomplish its goals given any changes in circumstances or law that have occurred over

the preceding years.

       18.      Withdrawal.

             a. Cooperation. If a Party wishes to withdraw from the Authority and the terms and

                conditions of this 2019 Agreement, the Parties agree to work cooperatively in

                such a manner as to minimize the harm to any Party and the public safety of the

                citizens of all Parties. The Authority will respect the desire and decision of the

                withdrawing Party, and the withdrawing Party will respect the need for and allow

                the necessary planning to ensure a withdrawal will result in the minimum impact

                reasonably possible on the Authority and remaining Parties.

             b. Requirements.

                    i. Due to the complexities of the operation of the Authority and the

                       significant impact a withdrawal may have on the other Parties, a Party

                       must provide at least twelve months’ advance notice as to the date it

                       wishes to withdraw from the Authority. Those twelve months will run

                       from the date the UFA Fire Chief and CLO receive a written notice of

                       withdrawal from the withdrawing Party. The Parties acknowledge that the

                       annual Member Fees paid to the Authority do not constitute the

                       establishment of a debt for any Party and will be paid as services are

                       provided. Furthermore, the Parties acknowledge that the inclusion of a

                       twelve months’ withdrawal period renders this 2019 Agreement one of

                       reasonable duration.




                                                  16
ii. The twelve month notice requirement for withdrawal may be shortened

    upon mutual agreement between the withdrawing Party and the Authority,

    if approved by the Board.

iii. Upon providing notice of its intent to withdraw, the withdrawing Party’s

    Board Member must, if applicable, relinquish his or her position as Board

    Chair/Vice-Chair and any committee Chair. The Board Member will also

    be automatically recused from matters directly affecting the withdrawal

    process. Such recusal will only extend to voting on matters related to the

    withdrawal process and the withdrawing Party’s Board Member will have

    the right to participate in Board discussions and debates related to such

    issues. However, a withdrawing Party’s Board Member may be excluded

    from any closed sessions, properly held pursuant to the Utah Open and

    Public Meetings Act, to discuss matters related to the withdrawal of that

    Party. If a withdrawing Party revokes its intent to withdraw, its Board and

    Committee positions will be reinstated.

iv. The Parties and the Authority agree that if a Party withdraws and

    subsequently forms or participates in a new fire department with other

    Parties, that the Authority and withdrawing Party will, in good faith,

    negotiate or join existing relevant mutual and automatic aid agreements

    covering both the Authority and withdrawing Party, subject to approval of

    the withdrawing Party’s governing body.




                             17
       v. Upon receiving a notice of intent to withdrawal, the Parties will begin the

          withdrawal process by creating a withdrawal plan that will comply with

          the general principles provided for in this Paragraph 17.

c. Disposition of Stations or Equipment.

       i. Station Lease. The Authority will cease using the stations owned by the

          withdrawing Party upon the effective date of the Party’s withdrawal. The

          withdrawing Party, or other station owner, will receive the station in an as-

          is condition as of the effective date of the withdrawal. If the withdrawing

          Party is not the owner of the station at the time of withdrawal and it

          wishes to use the station after withdrawal, the withdrawing Party will be

          responsible for coordinating such use with the station’s owner. The

          Authority will use its best efforts to maintain the station in its condition

          from the date of the notice to the date of withdrawal, but will not be

          responsible for any normal wear and tear during the withdrawal period,

          nor for any deterioration or destruction of the station outside of its control.

       ii. Improvements. If the Authority has constructed or incorporated

          improvements or fixtures into the real property of the stations that cannot

          be removed without destroying the improvement’s value, the withdrawing

          party will reimburse the Authority for the depreciated value of the

          improvements at the time of withdrawal using a ten year straight line

          depreciation period with no residual.

      iii. Station Inventory. The Authority and the withdrawing Party will meet and

          confer to create a property disposition plan to account for supplies and



                                    18
    equipment located in the stations serving the withdrawing Party that are to

    be vacated by the Authority. This plan will contain an inventory of any

    items for which the withdrawing Party can specifically prove ownership.

    The withdrawing Party will be entitled to retain only such inventoried

    items upon withdrawal. All other supplies or equipment used or installed

    by the Authority during its normal operations and procurement will not be

    included in this inventory and will be retained by the Authority or sold to

    the withdrawing Party pursuant to the terms of this 2019 Agreement.

iv. Apparatus and Equipment. If the withdrawing Party has transferred

    apparatus or equipment to the Authority and such apparatus or equipment

    has not been cycled through to the end of its usable life or inseparably

    incorporated in the Authority’s inventory, those units will be returned to

    the withdrawing Party. All apparatus and equipment purchased through

    the Authority’s capital replacement plan is owned by the Authority.

v. Debt Obligation. Although the withdrawing Party will not be obligated to

    continue its portion of the payment for any debt of the Authority related to

    the acquisition of apparatus and equipment, however, the withdrawing

    Party will not have any property right to any such apparatus and

    equipment in the stations serving the withdrawing Party except as

    provided for above.

vi. Sale of Apparatus or Equipment. Unless it determines doing so will cause

    harm to the remaining Parties, the Authority will offer to sell engines,

    trucks, ambulances, and/or other equipment (each “a unit”) assigned to the



                             19
stations serving the withdrawing Party at full market value (i.e. the retail

price the unit would cost in an arms-length transaction given its age and

condition at the time of purchase by the withdrawing Party) as determined

by a mutually agreed-upon third party appraisal (hereinafter “FMV”). The

withdrawing Party is not obligated to make such a purchase.

   1. Any units that were purchased as part of a current, outstanding

       loan or lease to the Authority will be retained by the Authority. A

       withdrawing Party may acquire such a unit if the withdrawing

       Party is able to assume full financial responsibility of the

       underlying obligation and obtain a full release of the Authority’s

       obligation to maintain ownership of the unit as collateral for any

       loan, lease, or other transaction. Such an assumption of liability

       and release will be subject to agreement with the Authority,

       including the potential payment of consideration to the Authority

       to account for any equitable value of the asset (i.e. payment of

       FMV less the assumed obligation) or the obligation being paid and

       released through the Authority (i.e. payment of FMV and receipt of

       the unit without any attached debt obligation), and will only be

       considered if such a transaction does not adversely affect the

       Authority’s operations or the financing of the Authority’s other

       assets. The Authority may also substitute another unit as

       appropriate.




                          20
              2. If the withdrawing Party wishes to acquire additional apparatus

                  and equipment units beyond that serving the withdrawing Party,

                  the Authority, at its option, may offer additional apparatus or

                  equipment at FMV.

d. Personnel. If the withdrawing Party plans upon withdrawal to start its own

   department or expand a previously existing department with others, the

   withdrawing Party agrees to provide (or to encourage, in good faith, the existing

   department it is joining to provide) an employee selection process exclusively for

   interested, existing staff of the Authority prior to engaging in an open and public

   recruitment for staffing.

       i. This process does not include recruitment for Fire Chief or other and

          executive level positions.

       ii. The withdrawing Party is not obligated to hire those who apply during this

          process, merely to give existing staff of the Authority the first opportunity

          to potentially fill the prospective new positions.

      iii. The withdrawing Party agrees that employees of the Authority that are

          hired by the withdrawing Party will have the option to either: 1) receive a

          payout of their Authority vacation balance directly from the Authority on

          the employee’s date of separation pursuant to the Authority’s then existing

          policy; or 2) transfer of their vacation hours to their new position with the

          withdrawing Party. In the event of a transfer and acceptance of vacation

          hours, the Authority will pay to the withdrawing Party the value of the




                                    21
                       vacation hours at the employee’s wage rate as of the employee’s last day

                       with the Authority.

                   iv. Sick leave balances of employees hired by the withdrawing Party will not

                       transferred and will be handled pursuant to internal policy and procedure

                       of the Authority.

                    v. Retirements contributions by the Authority for the any employee leaving

                       the Authority and starting work with a withdrawing Party will cease upon

                       the employee’s last day with the Authority.

                   vi. The Authority will allow any fire fighter leaving the Authority and

                       moving to the withdrawing Party to take their existing, issued personal

                       protective equipment (“PPE”) with them to their new employment with

                       the withdrawing Party. The ownership of the PPE will be transferred to

                       the withdrawing Party at no cost.

             e. Licenses. The Authority will work in good faith with the withdrawing Party to

                secure or transfer the necessary licenses or contractual arrangements for the

                provision of emergency ground transportation.

       19.      Admission of New Parties. The Parties anticipate that during the term of this

2019 Agreement additional governmental entities may wish to join the Authority and be bound

to the terms and conditions of this 2019 Agreement. The process and requirements for becoming

an additional Party to this Agreement and member of the Authority will apply equally to the

addition of a new Contracting Entity to the Authority and to the addition of a municipality to the

Service Area. The process and requirements should occur prior to the statutory process required

for such admission of a municipality to the Service Area, and any entity that approaches the



                                                 22
UFSA Board or a UFSA Board Member about joining the UFSA will be directed to speak first to

the UFA Chair and/or the Fire Chief. Admission of an additional Party will be pursuant to the

following process and conditions:

           a. The Fire Chief will advise the Board Chair of any expressed interest in joining the

              Authority of which the Fire Chief becomes aware, and the Board Chair will

              advise the Fire Chief of any expressed interest in joining the Authority of which

              the Board Chair becomes aware. The Fire Chief and Board Chair will then have

              the authority to hold initial, non-public discussions with any municipality or other

              entity expressing interest in joining the Authority to gauge feasibility or level of

              interest in joining. However, neither the Fire Chief nor the Board Chair is

              authorized to discuss the potential of an entity joining the Authority in a public

              setting without prior notice to and permission from the Board. Further, neither

              the Fire Chief nor the Board Chair may make any agreements with the potential

              new member concerning joining the Authority without complying with the

              requirements of this Paragraph 18.

           b. Under the direction of the Board, the Authority’s staff will conduct a feasibility

              study to evaluate the potential addition of the new member. In conducting the

              feasibility study under this section, the study should include the following

              (provided that these guidelines are subject to revision by the Board in subsequent

              Board Policy without the need to amend this 2019 Agreement):

                   i. Population and population density within the proposed municipality;




                                                23
ii. Current and five-year projections of demographics and economic base in

    the proposed municipality, including household size and income,

    commercial and industrial development, and public facilities;

iii. Projected growth in the proposed municipality during the next five years;

iv. The present and five-year projections of the cost, including overhead, of

    providing the Baseline Services in the proposed municipality as is

    provided by the Authority in similar municipalities;

v. The number, classification, and cost of wages, salaries, and benefits of any

    line and staff employees that the proposed municipality desires the

    Authority to absorb as part of joining the Authority assuming that:

        1. The Authority will agree to accept all fire personnel assigned to

            engines, trucks, and ambulances;

        2. The Authority will have the option to consider employment of

            Chief Officers or other staff;

        3. Employees transferred to the Authority will transfer with:

               a. Wages normalized to the Authority pay structure except

                   that if an employee’s existing wage is higher, the employee

                   wage will be frozen until the wage is normalized with the

                   Authority wage schedule;

               b. Seniority equal to years of full time career experience with

                   the joining municipality on last day of employment with

                   the joining municipality;




                              24
                 c. Vacation leave balance on last day of employment with a

                     calculation of the total liability for vacation accrual that

                     will be paid for by the joining municipality;

                 d. Sick leave balance on last day of employment (if hours

                     exceed existing Authority cap, cost for municipality to buy

                     down the employee’s sick leave prior to transferring to the

                     Authority).

 vi. The location, condition, and value of the physical assets necessary to

     provide services in the joining municipality that would be transferred to

     the Authority by the municipality including in the study the feasibility of:

         1. A Contracting Entity retaining ownership of the fire stations and

             being responsible for capital maintenance, or a Service Area

             Member transferring station ownership and responsibility for

             capital maintenance to the Service Area.

         2. Transferring necessary assets, such as apparatus, equipment, PPE,

             station supplies, etc. to the Authority to provide the services to the

             joining municipality.

vii. An assessment of the debts, liabilities, and obligations of the joining

     municipality that may be necessary for the Authority to acquire in order to

     provide the services to the joining municipality.

viii. The fiscal impact that the joining municipality's addition has on other

     Parties by the Authority, including any Member Fee changes that may

     become necessary to maintain existing levels of service for current Parties.



                               25
      ix. The impact of adding the municipality to the Authority service area on the

           Insurance Service Office (ISO) Fire Insurance Community Grading

           currently held by the Authority.

       x. Any other factor that staff considers relevant to the question of admitting a

           new municipality to the Authority.

c. A joining municipality, depending upon the circumstances and the equities

   involved in its joining the Authority, may be subject to a separate agreement that

   may contain a minimum period of membership that will be negotiated based on

   the review of the circumstances, including the assets and liabilities the

   municipality will be transferring to the Authority

d. Approval of a new municipality as either a Contracting Entity or as a new

   member of the Service Area would require a two-thirds affirmative vote of the

   Authority’s Board at a duly noticed meeting (i.e., the affirmative vote of at least

   two-thirds of all Board Members rather than two-thirds of a quorum of the Board

   Members present at the particular meeting) and the new member agreeing to sign

   as a Party to this 2019 Agreement.

e. After approval by the Board just described, an entity desiring to join the Authority

   by joining the Service Area (as opposed to becoming a Contracting Entity), must

   file a resolution to initiate the Annexation procedures set forth in Title 17B,

   Chapter 1, Part 4 of the Utah Code. As this process is statutory in nature, a

   successful annexation cannot be guaranteed. For instance, the annexation statute

   allows for a certain number of citizen protests to halt an annexation, or to force an

   election on the matter.



                                     26
             f. The incorporation of a previously unincorporated area, served by the Authority

                and located within the Service Area, as a new municipality that remains in the

                Service Area will not be considered an admission of a “new” Party under this

                Paragraph. Such municipality will receive a position on the Board as described in

                Paragraph 9.

             g. A municipality leaving the Service Area to become a Contracting Entity will not

                be considered a “new” Party, but will be subject to the Member Fee system and

                calculation for contracting parties as adopted in the current budget.

       20.      Coverage Area. The coverage area of the Authority may increase or otherwise be

affected by annexations, disconnections, consolidations, boundary adjustments and/or

dissolutions related to the individual Parties. The Parties agree to notify the Authority, in

advance, of any such changes to the coverage area. If such a change is significant enough to

materially affect the response time or other operational issues, the Parties agree that a change to

the Member Fee may be warranted and that such change may be brought to the Board for

approval outside of the annual budgetary process.

       21.      Service Area. The Service Area Members are each individual municipalities and

are served by the Authority. Each Service Area Member is therefore a separate and independent

Party under the terms of this 2019 Agreement and enjoys the rights and remedies provided for

herein. In the event of a split in position or controversy between or among the Service Area

Members, those Parties agree that such will be resolved within the context of the membership

and governance of the Service Area and the provisions of this 2019 Agreement will not be used

to frustrate the Service Area’s purposes or otherwise harm the operations of the Authority in

providing services to the citizens of the Parties. Similarly, the Authority will assist to the degree



                                                  27
reasonably possible any Party wishing to switch from a Contracting Entity to a Service Area

Member, or vice versa, to accomplish that Party’s goal without discrimination or harm to any

other Party. An alteration in the composition of the Service Area that does not increase the

extent of the Authority’s services to another geographic area needs only to be accompanied by a

written acknowledgement reflecting such composition without any need to undergo the

amendment process provided for in Paragraph 25. For example, if an unincorporated area that is

part of the Service Area incorporates into a municipality or a metro township incorporates into a

city, and such new entity remains in the Service Area such that Authority services will continue,

no amendment is necessary and the new entity may simply sign an acknowledgement to be

bound by the terms of this 2019 Agreement as a Party in its newly established form. It will then

be considered, in its new form, as a Party to this 2019 Agreement without the need for further

action by the other Parties

       22.        Remittance. Each Party will prospectively remit the payments required to the

Authority by this 2019 Agreement, such as the Member Fee established each annual budget year

or any other required payments, on a quarterly basis and on the first day of each calendar quarter.

Upon agreement between the Authority and a Party, a Party may also pay prospectively amounts

due at shorter intervals, such as monthly, so long as the arrangement is agreed upon in advance

and in writing.

       23.        Breach or Failure to Pay.

             a. A failure to timely pay the Member Fee or other payment due to the Authority

                  will be considered an immediate and material breach of this 2019 Agreement.

                  Upon such failure to pay, the Authority will notify the breaching Party of the

                  alleged breach and provide thirty days for the breaching Party to remedy the



                                                   28
                alleged breach. Authority will continue to provide the services provided for in

                this 2019 Agreement in light of the public safety impacts a cessation of services

                would cause, however, failure to remedy the alleged breach after thirty days will

                result in the Authority being allowed to declare a default of this 2019 Agreement.

                Upon declaration of default, the Authority may seek all remedies available at law

                or equity (including the judicial remedy of injunctive relief to require the

                continued payment for services being provided), and the declaration of default

                will be deemed to constitute an involuntary Notice of Withdrawal to begin the

                process provided for in Paragraph 17 for the breaching Party.

             b. Upon a material breach of this 2019 Agreement by a Party not involving a failure

                to pay an amount due, the non-breaching Party or Parties will notify the breaching

                Party of the alleged breach and provide 30 days to remedy the alleged breach. If

                the breaching Party fails to remedy the alleged breach, the non-breaching Party or

                Parties may declare a Default of this 2019 Agreement and seek appropriate

                remedies in law or equity.

       24.      Termination. Due to the nature of the services being provided and the structure

of the Authority, this 2019 Agreement cannot be terminated in its entirety except by the

expiration of its term, by the mutual agreement of all Parties that the Authority should be

dissolved as an interlocal entity, or by any other method now or hereafter provided in the

Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §11-13-101 et.seq. The Agreement may be

terminated as to an individual Party pursuant to the withdrawal process provided for Paragraph

17. Upon withdrawal this 2019 Agreement will be terminated with respect to the withdrawing




                                                 29
Party, but any remaining payment obligations remaining after withdrawal and all the provision of

Paragraph 15 (Indemnification) will survive the termination with respect to said Party.

        25.      Dissolution. The Authority may be dissolved and operations terminated upon the

unanimous written consent of all Parties to this 2019 Agreement at the time of dissolution. Upon

dissolution, all leases will terminate, all assets actually contributed by a Party still identifiable as

separate property with a right of return will be returned to such Party and any remaining assets

(whether real property or personal property) of the Authority will be distributed based on a

fraction, the numerator of which is the aggregate amount of Member Fees paid by a Party and the

denominator of which is the aggregate amount of Member Fees paid by all of the Parties to the

Authority for services. Any unpaid liabilities of the Authority will be paid by the Parties based

on the same fraction. Such liability will be a joint liability.

        26.      Amendment. This 2019 Agreement may not be amended except by written

instrument signed by all Parties. Amendments will be approved as follows:

              a. Amendments may be proposed to the Board by any Party or staff of the Authority.

              b. The Board shall consider the proposed amendment and may only approve the

                 advancement of the proposed amendment for review by the Parties by a vote of at

                 least two-thirds of the Board present at a duly noticed meeting; i.e., the

                 affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all Board Members rather than two-thirds

                 of a quorum of the Board Members present at the particular meeting.

              c. Upon advancement, each Party (not including the Authority or the Service Area)

                 must present the proposed amendment to their appropriate legislative bodies for

                 review and consideration.




                                                   30
             d. Each Party (not including the Authority or the Service Area) will have sixty days

                to review the proposed amendment with its executive officers and legislative body

                and either provide notice of acceptance of the proposed amendment or suggest

                alternatives to be considered by the Board.

             e. Subsequent to this legislative review, the Board may approve a final amendment

                only by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Board at a duly noticed meeting; i.e.

                the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all Board Members rather than two-

                thirds of a quorum of the Board Members present at the particular meeting.

             f. Upon approval by the Board pursuant to this Paragraph, all Parties must agree to

                the final Amendment via a written document amending this 2019 Agreement

                within sixty days. Failure to agree to the approved Amendment will constitute an

                involuntary Notice to Withdraw pursuant to Paragraph 17.

       27.      Notices. All notices, requests, demands, and other communications hereunder will

be in writing and given to any Party by delivering a copy, via U.S. Mail, to the Mayor (or if

applicable to the form of government, the Council Chair or City Manager) of any municipal or

County Party, sent to that Party’s official governmental office address, with a copy also sent to

the same official office and addressed to “City/County Attorney or Chief Counsel.” For the

Authority or Service Area, notices should be sent to the following:

       If to Authority:
       Unified Fire Authority
       Office of the Fire Chief
       3380 South 900 West
       Salt Lake City, UT 84119

       With a copy to:
       Unified Fire Authority
       Chief Legal Officer
       3380 South 900 West

                                                 31
       Salt Lake City, UT 84119

       If to Service Area:
       Unified Fire Service Area
       Office of the Administrator
       3380 South 900 West
       Salt Lake City, UT 84119

       With a copy to:
       Fabian VanCott
       Attn: Rachel Anderson
       215 South State Street, Suite 1200
       Salt Lake City, UT 84111
       randerson@fabianvancott.com

       28.      Interlocal Cooperation Act. The Parties enter into this 2019 Agreement pursuant

to the Interlocal Cooperation Act. For the purpose of satisfying specific requirements of the

Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Parties agree as follows:

             a. This 2019 Agreement maintains and affirms the creation of the separate interlocal

                entity known as the “Unified Fire Authority” that will operate using its own

                budget, may acquire real or personal property and may take any other act

                authorized by Utah law.

             b. The Authority will be governed by its Board and according to the provisions of

                this 2019 Agreement.

             c. Because this 2019 Agreement cannot take effect until it has met the requirements

                of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, each Party agrees by its signature that this 2019

                Agreement has been presented and approved by that Party’s legislative body by a

                resolution or ordinance that is in compliance with Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-

                202.5(2) and been submitted and approved by the attorney authorized to represent

                the Party in compliance with Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-202.5(3). Furthermore,




                                                 32
               upon approval and execution by the Parties, each Party agrees to keep a copy of

               this 2019 Agreement on file with the Party’s keeper of records.

       29.     Entire Agreement. This 2019 Agreement constitutes the entire agreement

between the Parties regarding those subjects that are the subject matter of this 2019 Agreement,

and this 2019 Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the Parties

pertaining thereto, except where otherwise specifically stated herein. Notwithstanding the

foregoing, any prior agreements between any Parties, such as leases, land-use agreements,

easements, deeds, or other matters separate and distinct from the creation and operation of the

Authority as an interlocal entity as provided for in this 2019 Agreement remain in full force and

effect and subject to their own respective terms and conditions.

       30.     Governing Law & Venue. The provisions of this 2019 Agreement will be

governed by and be construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah. Disputes and

other issues between the Parties arising out of or related to this 2019 Agreement will be decided

by litigation in the Third Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County, Utah.

       31.     Disputes. In the event of disputes and in the absence of any agreement to the

contrary, the Authority will continue to provide services during any litigation and the adverse

Party will continue to make payments to the Authority in accordance with the terms of this 2019

Agreement to ensure the continued protection of public safety within the Party’s communities.

This provision may be enforced by injunctive relieve by the courts if necessary.

       32.     Waiver. No failure by either Party to insist upon strict performance of any

covenant, duty, agreement, or condition of this 2019 Agreement, or to exercise any right or

remedy consequent upon a breach thereof, will constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any

other covenant, agreement, term, or condition of this 2019 Agreement. Either Party may, by



                                                33
notice delivered in the manner provided in this 2019 Agreement, but will be under no obligation

to, waive any of its rights or any condition to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or

covenant of the other Party. No waiver will affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement, but

each and every other covenant, agreement, term, and condition hereof will continue in full force

and effect with respect to any other then existing or subsequently occurring breach.

       33.     Severability. In the event that any condition, covenant, or other provision hereof

is held to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same will be deemed severable from the

remainder of this 2019 Agreement and will in no way affect any other covenant, condition, or

other provision herein contained. If such condition, covenant, or other provision will be deemed

invalid due to its scope or breadth, such provision will be deemed valid to the extent of the scope

or breadth permitted by law.

       34.     Counterparts. This 2019 Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of

which will be deemed an original and all of which together will constitute one and the same

instrument. Delivery of an executed signature page by facsimile or e-mail transmission shall be

effective as delivery of a manually signed counterpart of this 2019 Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed and caused this 2019 Agreement to be duly

executed effective as provided in Paragraph 27.

                                   [signatures begin next page]




                                                  34
                              UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY

                                          UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY




                                          By _______________________________
                                          Dan Petersen
                                          Fire Chief

Approved as to legal form:
___________________________
Brian F. Roberts
Chief Legal Officer



Dated:___________________________




                                     35
                             UNIFIED FIRE SERVICE AREA


                                             UNIFIED FIRE SERVICE AREA


                                             By _______________________________
                                             Print:_____________________________
                                             Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:

___________________________




Dated:___________________________




                                        36
                              SALT LAKE COUNTY


                                          SALT LAKE COUNTY



                                          By _______________________________
                                          Print:_____________________________
                                          Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                Attest:

___________________________               ___________________________________



Dated:___________________________




                                     37
                              TOWN OF ALTA


                                        TOWN OF ALTA


                                        By _______________________________
                                        Print:____________________________
                                        Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:              Attest:

___________________________             ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                   38
                             COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP


                                             COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP


                                             By _______________________________
                                             Print:____________________________
                                             Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                   Attest:

___________________________                  ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                        39
                             COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS




                                          COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS


                                          By _______________________________
                                          Print:____________________________
                                          Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                Attest:

___________________________               ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                     40
                             EAGLE MOUNTAIN CITY



                                          EAGLE MOUNTAIN CITY



                                          By _______________________________
                                          Print:____________________________
                                          Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                Attest:

___________________________               ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                     41
                             EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP



                                             EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP



                                             By _______________________________
                                             Print:____________________________
                                             Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                   Attest:

___________________________                  ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                        42
                              HERRIMAN CITY



                                        HERRIMAN CITY



                                        By _______________________________
                                        Print:____________________________
                                        Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:              Attest:

___________________________             ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                   43
                              CITY OF HOLLADAY




                                          By _______________________________
                                          Print:____________________________
                                          Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                Attest:

___________________________               ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                     44
                             KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP



                                           KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP



                                           By _______________________________
                                           Print:____________________________
                                           Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                 Attest:

___________________________                ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                      45
                             MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP



                                           MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP



                                           By _______________________________
                                           Print:____________________________
                                           Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                 Attest:

___________________________                ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                      46
                              MIDVALE CITY




                                        MIDVALE CITY




                                        By _______________________________
                                        Print:____________________________
                                        Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:              Attest:

___________________________             ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                   47
                                  MILLCREEK



                                          MILLCREEK




                                          By _______________________________
                                          Print:____________________________
                                          Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                Attest:

___________________________               ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                     48
                              RIVERTON CITY




                                        RIVERTON CITY




                                        By _______________________________
                                        Print:____________________________
                                        Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:              Attest:

___________________________             ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                   49
                              TAYLORSVILLE CITY




                                          TAYLORSVILLE CITY




                                          By _______________________________
                                          Print:____________________________
                                          Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                Attest:

___________________________               ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                     50
                             WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP




                                             WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP




                                             By _______________________________
                                             Print:____________________________
                                             Its:_______________________________

Approved as to legal form:                   Attest:

___________________________                  ___________________________________



DATED:_________________________




                                        51
                                          EXHIBIT A

                                        DEFINITIONS

The terms used in this Fire Merit System plan shall be defined as follows:

   a. “Agreement” shall mean that contract, adopted under the Interlocal Agreement Act,
      which creates or ratifies the creation of the Unified Fire Authority.

   b. “Board” shall mean the Board of Directors of the Unified Fire Authority.

   c. “Chief” shall be the Fire Chief of the Unified Fire Authority fire department.

   d. “Commission” shall mean the Merit Commission of the Fire Merit System.

   e. “Coordinator” shall be the Coordinator for the Fire Merit System.

   f. “Fire Department” shall mean that part of the Unified Fire Authority which provides fire
      operational and support services, under the direction of the Chief.

   g. “Members” shall mean the municipalities and county which are signatories of the
      Agreement.

   h. “Merit System” shall mean the Fire Merit System created to govern personnel matters in
      UFA, as established by this Exhibit.

   i. “Plan” refers to the Fire Merit System Plan, which creates the Merit System and governs
      personnel matters therein.

   j. “UFA” shall mean the Unified Fire Authority.

                                   FIRE MERIT SYSTEM

1.     Employment in the United Fire Authority (“UFA”) will be governed by the Fire Merit
System as set out in the Agreement, this Fire Merit System Plan (“Plan”), and policies and
procedures adopted under paragraph three below.

       a.      All employees of the UFA, with the exception of merit-exempt administrative
       staff and temporaries, will be covered by a Fire Merit System and their employment
       status will be governed by policies and rules adopted in accordance with this Plan.

       b.     Merit-exempt administrative employees may be appointed by the Board and shall
       include a fire chief and such other administrative positions which by their nature are
       confidential or key policy-making or both, and which cannot or should not be included in
       the merit system. Merit-exempt administrative employees are at will. Merit-exempt



                                               A-1
       employees, who appointment expires or is terminated except for cause, shall be returned
       to the previous merit position held.

c.     Temporary employees, which includes administrative or support staff employees who
work less than 1040 hours per year, paid-call firefighters, or wild-land firefighters are merit-
exempt and are at will.

2.    The Merit System, and the policies adopted under this Plan, shall provide for the effective
implementation of basic merit principles, including the following:

       a.    Hiring, selecting, advancing and disciplining employees based on ability,
       knowledge and skill;

       b.      providing fair and adequate compensation;

       c.      training employees to assure high quality performance;

       d.    retaining employees on the basis of adequate performance and separating
       employees whose inadequate performance cannot be corrected;

       e.      fairly treating all applicants and employees without regard to race, color, religion,
       gender, national origin, political affiliation, age, or disability or any other characteristic
       protected by federal or state law from discrimination;

       f.      providing information regarding political rights and prohibited practices; and

       g.      providing a procedure for informal employee grievances and formal appeals.


3.       The adoption of personnel policies and the establishment of a pay plan are legislative
activities which are the responsibility of the Board.

       a.      Board shall adopt a comprehensive code of personnel policies and procedures
       regarding the employment status, procedures and benefits for all employees covered by
       the merit system, including fire fighters and non-fire fighters. Those personnel policies
       and procedures must be consistent with merit principles and with the provisions of this
       exhibit.

       b.      The Board shall adopt a comprehensive fire merit system classification plan and
       grade allocation system applicable to all merit- covered employees and shall prepare and
       establish a pay plan that includes salaries, incentives, leave, insurance, retirement, and
       other benefits.


4.     The administration of the Merit System and classification plan is the responsibility of a
Merit System Coordinator (“Coordinator”).

                                                A-2
       a.      The Coordinator is a merit-exempt employee or a contractor who works
               immediately under the direction, and at the pleasure of, the Board.

       b.      The Coordinator maintains and manages the Merit System classification plan, as
       directed by the Board, makes recommendations regarding Merit System and personnel
       matters to the Board and to the Fire Chief.

       c.      The Coordinator shall prepare and conduct competitive examinations for both
       hiring and promotion and shall prepare registers based on the results of those
       examinations. All positions covered by the Merit System shall be filled by competitive
       process. The final hiring authority is vested in the Fire Chief, in accordance with policies
       and procedures adopted by the Board.

5.    The resolution of formal personnel grievances and appeals brought by Merit System
employees is a judicial activity within the responsibility of a Merit Commission
(“Commission”).

       a.    The Commission shall consist of three persons (“Commissioners”) appointed by
       the UFA Board.

       b.       Commissioners shall be persons who are experienced in personnel, civil service or
       related matters and who support basic merit principles. Commissioners may not hold
       elected office nor be employees of the UFA or of Salt Lake County or any municipality
       contracting with the UFA. Commissioners shall be appointed for three year terms, but the
       initial terms of commissioners shall be adjusted in order to stagger terms and one
       commissioner, chosen by lot, shall serve a two-year term, the second a three-year term,
       and the third a four-year term.
       Compensation of Commissioners shall be set by Board policies and procedures.
       Commissioners may be removed, by the Board, for cause, including failure to perform
       Commission activities. The internal organization of the Commission, including the
       appointment of a chair and the establishment of hearing procedures, shall be at the
       discretion of the Commissioners. Staff assistants and accommodations shall be provided
       by the Board.

       c.      Commissioners shall have the authority to hear and resolve appeals and
       disciplinary action which are brought by merit employees. In so doing, the Commission
       may affirm, modify, or vacate disciplinary action. The subject matter jurisdiction
       regarding appeals which may be heard by the Commission shall be established and
       defined by policies and procedures adopted by the Board; provided, however, that the
       Commission shall always have the authority to hear grievances regarding demotion,
       suspension without pay and termination. The Board, by policy and procedure, shall
       define employee grievances that are and are not appealed to the Commission, and those
       that are resolved by internal grievance within the fire, emergency, and support command
       structure.



                                               A-3
       d.      Any appeals by employees regarding general pay inequities which significantly
       affect the cost of Baseline Services (Agreement paragraph 3), are not heard by the
       Commission, but are appealed to and resolved by the UFA Board. Appeals regarding pay
       inequities shall be resolved in accordance with policies adopted by Board.

6.      The UFA’s operational services, including fire, paramedic, emergency and support staff
services, are provided by the UFA Fire Department (“Department”). Personnel administration as
set out below in the Department is the responsibility of the Fire Chief.

       a.     The Fire Chief is responsible for management of the Fire Department, including
       those operational personnel matters which are not specifically vested in the Coordinator
       under the provisions of this plan. The Fire Chief shall adopt and promulgate an
       operational procedures manual regarding standard operating procedures in the
       Department, including but not limited to personnel matters such as work schedules and
       assignments, payroll procedures, staffing, travel and training.

       b.      All employees are subject to disciplinary action based on misconduct or failure to
       perform, under the responsibility of the Fire Chief and as defined in policies and
       procedures adopted by the Board. Such policies and procedures shall comply with merit
       principles as established in this Plan. The right to review disciplinary action shall be
       established by policies and procedures, which shall distinguish between disciplinary
       action which is subject to formal appeal to the Commission and that which is subject to
       informal grievance internal to the Department.

       c.    The Fire Chief shall administer and support an internal grievance review system
       which may include mediation or a peer review board, as provided in Policies and
       Procedures adopted by the Board.

       d.      The Fire Chief shall be responsible to develop job descriptions, make final
       selections for appointments and promotions from registers as established herein, conduct
       performance evaluations and to carry out the responsibilities vested in the Fire Chief by
       Policies and Procedures and may make recommendations to the Board and the Director
       regarding merit system issues.

7.      Amendments to this Plan may be proposed by the Fire Chief, the Coordinator, a member
of the Board, or other interested parties. A proposed amendment shall be submitted to the Board
for consideration and review. The Board shall make a recommendation regarding the proposal
and forward it to the legislative bodies of the County and of each city contracting with the UFA
for consideration and approval. If at least two-thirds of the legislative bodies of the County and
cities concur in the proposed amendment, it shall be adopted and become part of this plan.




                                               A-4
                                    EXHIBIT “B”

Table 1. MEMBER FEE PERCENTAGE
Member                                 FUNDING TO UFA       % of UFSA        % OF FUNDING
UFSA*                                  $48,890,839                           88.17%
Millcreek City                                              20.38%           17.97%
Salt Lake County Unincorporated                             18.18%           16.03%
Taylorsville City                                           13.06%           11.52%
Riverton City                                               12.21%           10.77%
Herriman City                                               9.61%            8.47%
Midvale City                                                8.49%            7.48%
Cottonwood Heights City                $3,818,822           n/a              6.89%
Eagle Mountain City                                         6.98%            6.15%
Holladay City                          $2,586,904           n/a              4.67%
Kearns Metro Township                                       4.89%            4.31%
Magna Metro Township                                        4.21%            3.71%
Emigration Metro Township                                   0.96%            0.84%
White City Metro Township                                   0.93%            0.82%
Alta Town                              $152,665             n/a              0.28%
Copperton Metro Township                                    0.12%            0.11%
TOTAL                                  55,449,230           100.00%          100.00%

*UFSA’s percentage of UFA Member Fees is divided between UFSA members based on taxable value:

UFSA BREAKDOWN BY 2019 TAXABLE VALUE
UFSA Members                           Taxable Value        % of total
Copperton Metro Township               33,690,335           0.12%
Eagle Mountain City                    1,943,067,756        6.98%
Emigration Metro Township              266,505,821          0.96%
Herriman City                          2,675,129,875        9.61%
Kearns Metro Township                  1,362,438,642        4.89%
Magna Metro Township                   1,171,724,025        4.21%
Midvale City                           2,363,336,028        8.49%
Millcreek City                         5,675,214,848        20.38%
Riverton City                          3,401,242,120        12.21%
Salt Lake County Unincorporated        5,063,126,841        18.18%
Taylorsville City                      3,637,908,383        13.06%
White City Metro Township              257,643,776          0.93%
TOTAL                                  27,851,028,450       100%



                                         B-1
Table 2. POPULATION PERCENTAGE
Municipality                                          Population               % of Total
Millcreek City                                        60,308                   14.29%
Taylorsville City                                     59,601                   14.12%
Riverton City                                         44,231                   10.48%
Herriman City                                         42,981                   10.18%
Kearns Metro Township                                 35,242                   8.35%
Eagle Mountain City                                   34,632                   8.21%
Midvale City                                          34,263                   8.12%
Cottonwood Heights City                               33,626                   7.97%
Holladay City                                         31,110                   7.37%
Magna Metro Township                                  27,450                   6.50%
Salt Lake County Unincorporated                       10,193                   2.42%
White City Metro Township                             5,599                    1.33%
Emigration Metro Township                             1,623                    0.38%
Copperton Metro Township                              812                      0.19%
Alta Town                                             378                      0.09%
TOTAL                                                 422,049                  100.00%

Source: Kem Gardner Policy Institute, University of Utah
Salt Lake and Utah County Subcounty Estimates
Subcounty Estimates Data (Excel Format) / City-Population tab / Total Population column




                                                B-2
Table 3. WEIGHTED VOTING PERCENTAGES
Member                            POPULATION     MEMBER FEE   WEIGHTED VOTE
Millcreek City                    14.29%         17.97%       16.13%
Taylorsville City                 14.12%         11.52%       12.82%
Riverton City                     10.48%         10.77%       10.62%
Herriman City                     10.18%         8.47%        9.33%
Salt Lake County Unincorporated   2.42%          16.03%       9.22%
Midvale City                      8.12%          7.48%        7.80%
Cottonwood Heights City           7.97%          6.89%        7.43%
Eagle Mountain City               8.21%          6.15%        7.18%
Kearns Metro Township             8.35%          4.31%        6.33%
Holladay City                     7.37%          4.67%        6.02%
Magna Metro Township              6.50%          3.71%        5.11%
White City Metro Township         1.33%          0.82%        1.07%
Emigration Metro Township         0.38%          0.84%        0.61%
Alta Town                         0.09%          0.28%        0.18%
Copperton Metro Township          0.19%          0.11%        0.15%
TOTAL                             100.00%        100.00%      100.00%




                                           B-3
