                           MEMORANDUM
To:           Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:         Planning Department
Date:         October 21, 2025
Subject:      Ordinance 25-25, “Walker Property Rezone,” Rezone of approximately 1.16-
              acres located near 2630 W. 12600 S. Changing the zoning from C-N to C-G.
              Applicants- Marco Hermosillo and Richard Ortiz with Benefactor Two, LLC.


On September 25, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this rezone
application. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted
to recommend approval, with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #25-25, the “Walker Property Rezone,” for 1.16
acres located at 2630 W 12600 S, rezoning the subject properties to C-G (Commercial
Gateway Zone).

Background
This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicants, Marco Hermosillo
and Richard Ortiz with Benefactor Two, LLC. On their application they describe the proposed
use of the property as:

     “Development of a modern automotive dealership. With a site over 1 acre of land, with
     a permanent structure that will serve as a high-quality showroom, with enclosed service
     bays that will help prepare vehicles for delivery with no heavy mechanical work,
     professional landscape and outdoor display areas. The dealership will be constructed
     with an emphasis on architectural quality, buffering from current residential areas.”

The subject property is two existing parcels totaling approximately 1.16-acres located at 2630
and 2610 West 12600 South. These vacant parcels are on the north side of 12600 South, near
the pedestrian bridge. The properties form an “L” shape with about 270-ft of frontage on 126th,
but only about 145-ft touching on the north adjoining property in the Country View Condominium
Project.

Area Zoning is mostly commercial along 126th South with a mix of Residential Zones in the area.
To the west is C-N (Commercial Neighborhood) zoning for a small office building and a Qwest
Corporation building. To the north, the Country View Condominium Project is zoned RM-8. To
the northeast is a non-conforming 4-plex on 0.45-acres zoned RR-22. To the east is the Taylor
Bike Shop muti-tenant commercial building with C-G (Commercial Gateway) zoning. South of
12600 South is mix of single-family residential and commercial zoning and uses.

The General Plan for properties along 12600 South, from 2700 West eastward to the canal are
mostly designated as “Business Park”, with some “Community Commercial” near 2700 West. The
requested C-G zone is consistent with the “Business Park” designation.

Broadly speaking, the existing C-N zone is more restrictive than the requested C-G zone. The C-
N zone was intended to be located within and integrated into surrounding residential areas (see
RCC 18.75.010). The Table of Uses for the C-N zone is more restrictive than the uses for the
requested C-G Zone. The C-G zone was intended to be applied to properties along major arteries
such as Redwood and 12600 South, and have a combination of retail, professional businesses
and related activities (see RCC 18.70.010).

The applicants have stated their desired use of the property as an automotive dealership, even
though automotive dealerships are not permitted in the C-G Zone. In a separate agenda item
the Council will consider whether the Table of Commercial Uses should be modified to include
Automotive Dealerships as Conditional Use in the C-G zone.

This hearing is for the Council to determine zoning of the subject parcels. If these applicants
choose to pursue a commercial site plan, there will be additional applications, studies, reports and
public hearings for the site plan design.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Public Notice including Area Map.
       2.   Rezone Application.
       3.   Area Zoning Map.
       4.   Area General Plan Map.
Area Zoning




rivertonutah.gov
Area General Plan




rivertonutah.gov
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
September 25, 2025


addition on her home, and at that time, City Staff discovered that the fence is 18 feet from
the property line. That additional land is necessary in order to meet setback requirements.
The two property owners then came to an agreement on adjusting the lot line.

As these items historically required administrative approval only, Staff reviewed the
documentation, verified that it met all City requirements, and sent it to the County for
recordation. The change was subsequently rejected due to a new State requirement that
amended Plats must be submitted for all lot line adjustments.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject properties and posted
on the City’s website. No comments were received. Mr. Prestwich reported that the new
lots would meet all requirements for lot size, setbacks, etc., and Staff recommended
approval.

Chair Park asked if the other property owner had confirmed that they approve of the line lot
adjustment. Mr. Prestwich reported that a Quitclaim Deed was submitted with the
application, and both property owners’ signatures were notarized.

The Applicant, Gina Cartaino, stated that she plans to extend the kitchen and dining area of
her home, as well as the master bedroom and bathroom on the second story. The fence
has been in place for 30 years and her neighbors agreed to give them the additional land.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE
Application PLZ-25-1007, “River Haven Amended Subdivision,” subject to the
following:

Conditions:

      1.      Subdivision lots and layout shall be consistent with the plans presented
              to the Planning Commission except where otherwise noted.

      2.      Final Plat must be recorded with Salt Lake County.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion.             The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      C.      'WALKER PROPERTY REZONE,' PLZ-25 -4006, A REZONE APPLICATION
              TO REZONE 1.16-ACRES LOCATED AT 2630 AND 2610 WEST 12600
              SOUTH FROM C-N (NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL) TO C-G
              (GATEWAY COMMERCIAL). APPLICANTS - MARCO HERMOSILLO AND
              RICHARD ORTIZ.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
September 25, 2025


Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and indicated that the item was a request for
legislative action to change the City Zoning Map. The Planning Commission would discuss
the matter and make a recommendation to the City Council, and the Council would then
make the final decision. Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the
subject property, including the Country View Condominiums.

The Applicant requested rezoning to allow development of a modern automotive dealership,
which was currently not a Permitted Use in the Table of Commercial Uses for the C-G Zone.
After Staff informed them of this fact, the Applicant met with elected officials who indicated
that the idea was worth considering. However, Mr. Prestwich explained that that was a
nonbinding suggestion and not a direction to the Planning Commission. The next Agenda
item would be consideration of modifying the Table of Commercial Uses to allow automotive
dealerships as a Conditional Use in the C-G Zone. If both applications were approved, the
Applicant’s next step would be to submit a Site Plan.

Mr. Prestwich encouraged the Planning Commission to consider all allowed Uses in the C-
G Zone, as they would all be allowed if the subject property were rezoned. Additionally, any
changes to the Table of Commercial Uses would apply to all properties in the C-G Zone. He
then displayed an aerial map of the subject property, which is located on the north side
12600 South and east of the pedestrian bridge. It consists of two parcels and includes a
shared driveway easement to a nonconforming property at the rear. The Swim Kids project
was approved for the site but never constructed, and at that time, the Utah Department of
Transportation ("UDOT") would not allow a second access to be constructed. Mr. Prestwich
anticipated that UDOT would deny any similar requests from the current Applicant.

The Zoning Map was reviewed. The subject property and other parcels at the intersection
were zoned C-N. Newer properties to the east and west were zoned C-G. The General
Plan designates all parcels in the area as Business Park, which correlates to C-G and
Professional Office (C-PO) Zones. The C-G Zone is located on the edges and middle of the
City and is intended for main arteries such as Redwood Road and 12600 South.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Matheson, City Attorney, Ryan Carter,
cautioned that the application, as presented, does not include specific criteria for the
proposed Conditional Use. As a result, it would be difficult for the City to legally deny a CUP.
Conditional Uses should be considered approved Uses with conditions. He recommended
that the Planning Commission consider and make a recommendation on the application as
presented and discuss additional conditions that should be attached if the Conditional Use
was allowed.

Chair Park noted that the matter was more complicated than a typical rezoning request. This
item was only for rezoning the property, not the proposed Use that would be considered in
the next agenda item. Rezoning the property to C-G would be congruent with surrounding
properties and the General Plan. He asked for information on the specific uses that would
be allowed in the C-G Zone that were not allowed in the current C-N Zone.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
September 25, 2025


Mr. Prestwich stated that the C-N Zone is intended for smaller neighborhood services for
residents of adjoining neighborhoods. It is the most restrictive commercial zone and only
allows many uses with a CUP. The C-G Zone is more permissive and allows a mixture of
retail and commercial uses like restaurants, strip malls, automotive repair shops, and banks.
Signage requirements are stricter in the C-N Zone. The property had been on the market
since Swim Kids withdrew their project. In that time, some prospective buyers had made
inquiries about uses that would have been conditional in the C-N Zone. He believed the C-
G Zone would be congruent with the General Plan and newer businesses in the area.

Chair Park stated that automotive repair is a Conditional Use in the C-G Zone, and a written
public comment expressed concern that the noise generated by such a business would
negatively impact the mental health counseling facility on the adjoining property. He asked
if any other allowed Uses would generate noise and negatively impact surrounding
properties. Mr. Prestwich reviewed the list of Permitted and Conditional Uses in both zones.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cannon, Mr. Carter clarified that the item
could not be tabled indefinitely, as doing so would be a recommendation of denial by default.
If the Planning Commission required more information, Staff would need to understand what
specific information was being requested. He recommended that the public hearing be
conducted prior to making a decision.

Commissioner Rushton asked why the fourplex to the rear of the subject property was
nonconforming. Mr. Prestwich stated that the General Plan has changed since the structure
was constructed. The property is zoned RR-22, and a fourplex would not currently be
allowed in the zone if it were considered nonconforming. In response to a follow-up
question, he reported that the General Plan was last updated in approximately 2020 and
was due for an update. The Land Use vision of the current General Plan indicated that the
subject property should be consistent with adjacent properties.

Chair Park noted that the subject property was consistent with all other properties at the
intersection, as they were all currently zoned C-N. Mr. Prestwich stated that he was not
party to the City Council’s discussions when that decision was made, but the C-G Zone
would be consistent with properties to the east.

Commissioner Matheson reported that the C-N Zone has few Permitted Uses, and the
C-G Zone would be consistent with other properties in the area. The C-G Zone allows tattoo
and piercing shops, which he indicated could have negative impacts, but otherwise, he was
in favor of rezoning the property.

The Applicants, Richard Ortiz and Marco Hermosillo, presented a Concept Plan for the
property and indicated that it would be Riverton’s first car dealership. Mr. Ortiz stated that
the building would be designed to match the surrounding businesses, and the business
would offer employment opportunities to City residents. Mr. Ortiz addressed public
comments received in opposition to the application and stated that there would be a
landscaped buffer between the business and neighboring townhomes. The automotive bays
would be enclosed, and no heavy mechanical work would be performed at the location. All
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               5
September 25, 2025


work would be completed during normal business hours. They wanted to be an asset to the
community.

Mr. Hermosillo stated that they closed on the property the previous week and would not be
walking away from the project like Swim Kids. They planned to invest $2.5 million in the City
and had an annual revenue of $2.9 million. They wanted to give back to the community and
would partner with the high school each year for their automotive service program, as well
as make donations to support school sports teams.

In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Hermosillo confirmed that he
owned the subject property as of the previous week.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the dealership would sell new or used cars. Mr. Hermosillo
reported that they would sell 2016 and newer used cars. Financing is in-house, and they
currently have approximately 450 customers with 0% interest loans, including those with bad
credit or bankruptcies. He believes that used-car dealerships take advantage of those types
of customers by only offering financing with interest rates of 28% to 34%. They wanted to
move the dealership from Midvale to Riverton in order to grow their business.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Gerald Broderick reported that he and his wife own the four-plex to the east of the subject
property. He expressed concern about access from 12600 South, as well as lighting on the
property.

Kristy Cox owns Diagnostic Automotive, which has been in Riverton for 35 years. She asked
that the Planning Commission consider that there are five automotive shops within a two-
block radius, which she believes is too many businesses selling cars, performing oil
changes, etc. She also did not believe a car dealership would be attractive in the area. She
understood that the property had been vacant for a long time and needed to be developed,
but did not believe the property should be rezoned for this purpose.

Katherine Parnell also submitted a comment via email. She owns A New View Counseling
and Psychological Services and the building adjacent to the subject property. She has
owned her business for eight years and the building for two, and was named Riverton
Businesswoman of the Year in 2021. She is committed to serving the community’s mental
health needs. Location was the primary consideration in purchasing the building because
effective mental health work requires a quiet location in a neighborhood zone. They treat
many neurodivergent individuals, and she was concerned about noise transfer from the
service bays even if they are closed. She was strongly opposed to rezoning the property,
as rezoning it to C-G would allow businesses such as vaping or tattoo shops, which would
be a deterrent to people utilizing their mental health services.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             6
September 25, 2025


Commissioner Rushton stated that the Planning Commission considered a similar rezoning
application for a property at the intersection of 3600 West and 12600 South, which was
rezoned from C-PO to C-G. He believed that the C-G Zone was consistent with the area,
and rezoning would open the property to different types of businesses. He was in favor of
the request. Commissioner Matheson agreed with Commissioner Rushton, as he believed
the C-N Zone was too restrictive for the property. Chair Park agreed that rezoning the
property to C-G would provide an opportunity for many other types of businesses and flow
with the surrounding community.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-25-4006, “Walker Property Rezone,” by rezoning the
subject properties to C-G (Commercial Gateway Zone). Commissioner Cannon
seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Matheson-Yes, Commissioner
Beck-Yes, Commissioner Rushton-Yes, Chair Park-Yes, Commissioner Keele-Yes,
Commissioner Cannon-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

      D.     'TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES IN THE C-G ZONE,' PLZ-25-5008,
             RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND
             DEVELOPMENT CODE SECTIONS 18.90.010 (TABLE OF COMMERCIAL
             USES) AND 18.70.030 (CONDITIONAL USES, C-G ZONE), ALLOWING
             AND DEFINING CONDITIONS FOR 'AUTO DEALERSHIP (NEW OR USED)'
             AS A CONDITIONAL USE IN THE C-G ZONE.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and indicated that the amendment would add Auto
Dealership (new or used) to Riverton City Code 18.90.010, Table of Commercial Uses, and
the following language to 18.70.030, Conditional Uses:

      (2) Auto Dealership (new or used) only on property (or combination of properties) of
      at least one (1) acre having frontage on 12600 South and/or the Bangerter Highway.
      Such use must be on a finished commercial site, accompanied by approval of a
      Commercial Site Plan and include permanent and compliant office/sales building(s).

If approved as submitted, only the above conditions could be required. If the Planning
Commission was in favor of adding additional conditions, Mr. Prestwich suggested that the
item be continued to a future meeting to provide Staff time to draft the changes.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich reported that auto
dealerships are allowed in the Regional Commercial (C-R) Zone along 13400 South and
Bangerter Highway, as well as the Planned Commercial Center (PCC) Zone and some areas
of the SLR Master Development Zone. The subject property could not be rezoned to C-R
because that zone is intended for regional corridors and is not suitable for its location.

Commissioner Cannon stated that he is a partial owner of a property on 12600 South, and
as such, he must recuse himself from discussion and voting on the item.
 Received
   Public
Comment
Public Comment 3

Dear Commissioners and Council Members,

I am writing to express my strong opposition to the proposed rezoning of the parcel adjacent to
my property from Neighborhood Commercial (C-N) to Gateway Commercial (C-G) for the
purpose of constructing an auto dealership with service bays. The lots involved in the proposed
zoning change are 2630 and 2610 W 12600 S. I am the owner of the building located at 12569
S. 2700 W. I am also the owner of the company which occupies my building, A New View
Counseling and Psychological Services.
Our office is a mental health practice serving over 600 clients every month, including a
significant number of neurodivergent individuals and many who are actively working through
trauma. For these clients, the therapeutic process requires a quiet, calm, and stable
environment. Noise disruptions are not a minor inconvenience — they can directly interfere
with treatment, retraumatize clients, and undermine the healing process.
To illustrate: can you imagine trying to process trauma, anxiety, or grief while hearing a
compressor removing and replacing tires, the clang of tools, or vehicles being tested and
serviced just outside the therapy room? Such disruptions would make it extremely difficult, if
not impossible, for many of our clients to fully engage in care.
Beyond noise, an auto dealership with service bays also brings chemical odors, vibrations,
bright exterior lighting, and visual clutter, all of which are inconsistent with the intent of
Neighborhood Commercial zoning. C-N was designed for small-scale, community-serving
uses that blend with surrounding neighborhoods and healthcare practices. A full-scale auto
dealership is a regional, high-intensity use that does not belong in this context.
Approving this rezoning would also set a precedent for other high-intensity uses to encroach
into areas meant to remain compatible with neighborhood-serving businesses, permanently
changing the character of the area and undermining Riverton’s zoning intent.
For these reasons, I respectfully urge you to deny the rezoning request. Protecting the
therapeutic environment for hundreds of Riverton residents every month — particularly those
working through trauma and those with sensory sensitivities — must take priority over
introducing an incompatible, high-impact use.

Thank you for your thoughtful consideration.
Kathrine Parnell
Public Comment 4



Dear Members of the Planning Commission,



I am writing in response to the notice regarding the proposed rezoning of the property
located at 2630 and 2610 West 12600 South from C-N (Neighborhood Commercial) to
C-G (Gateway Commercial). As a nearby resident on

2507 w Mont Sur Dr, Riverton Utah 84065
I would like to share my support for this project.



It is my understanding that the rezoning would allow the property to be used for auto-
related repair or service. I believe this change could bring significant benefits to our
community.



My reasons for support are as follows:

   •   Convenience and Accessibility: Having a local auto service provider nearby
       would reduce the need for residents to travel farther for vehicle repairs and
       maintenance, saving both time and fuel.
   •   Economic Growth: Rezoning would encourage investment and create new job
       opportunities.
   •   Revitalization of the Area: Allowing broader commercial use will attract more
       business activity, helping to improve underutilized properties and making the
       area more vibrant.
   •   Modern Standards
   •   Balanced Development: The Gateway Commercial zoning would diversify the
       mix of services available while still aligning with the city’s long-term development
       plans.



For these reasons, I respectfully encourage the Commission to approve the rezoning
request and support thoughtful, forward-looking growth in our community.



Thank you for your consideration and for your commitment to improving our city.
Public Comment 2



Dear Members of the Planning Commission,

I am writing in response to the notice regarding the proposed rezoning of the property located
at 2630 and 2610 West 12600 South from C-N (Neighborhood Commercial) to C-G (Gateway
Commercial). As a nearby resident on 2631 W of Alice Springs Road, I appreciate the
opportunity to share my perspective.

It is my understanding that the rezoning would allow the property to be used for auto-related
repair or service. While I value thoughtful commercial development, I believe this particular
change would be incompatible with the surrounding residential area.

My concerns are as follows:

   •   Noise and Disturbance: Auto service operations create persistent noise from tools,
       equipment, and vehicle testing that would disrupt the quiet residential environment.
   •   Traffic and Safety: Increased vehicle traffic, including tow trucks and frequent test
       drives, would add congestion and raise safety concerns for pedestrians and children.
   •   Environmental Impacts: Repair services often involve chemicals, fumes, and potential
       runoff that could negatively affect neighborhood air quality and stormwater systems.
   •   Neighborhood Character: The current C-N zoning supports small-scale businesses that
       complement residential living. A shift to C-G, especially for auto services, would
       fundamentally alter the character of the neighborhood and diminish property values.

For these reasons, I respectfully request that the Commission not grant the rezoning request
and preserve the existing C-N zoning designation.

Thank you for your consideration and for your service to our community.


Regards,
Savan Kumar Muniraju
8019356848
