PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  18
December 10, 2020


       5.     The applicant completes a Long-Term Storm Water Management Plan or
              Storm Water Maintenance Plan according to Riverton City standards and
              ordinances.

       6.     The applicant must obtain any necessary approvals or permits from
              applicable outside agencies or jurisdictions.

       7.     The site and structure shall comply with all applicable standards and
              ordinances of the City, including the International Building and Fire
              Codes.

       8.     Landscaping for the Rocky Mountain Parcel shall be completed prior to
              issuance of occupancy for the first building.

       9.     Landscaping surrounding each unit shall be completed prior to issuance
              of occupancy for that unit.

       10.    Each unit to display address numbers on both the front and rear entrance
              or as otherwise approved by the Fire Marshal.

       11.    The applicant shall provide an additional 20 parking stalls.

       12.    Amenities including tot lot, landscaping, and others, be completed within
              90 days of first granting of the Certificate of Occupancy.

It was clarified that condition number nine is specific to the landscaping around the unit itself
and not to areas of open space or amenities.

Commissioner Russell seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Brian Russell-Aye,
Dennis Hansen-Nay, Kent Hartley-Aye, Ed James-Nay, Troy Rushton-Aye, Grant
Lefgren-Aye, Chair Gary Cannon-Aye. The motion passed 5-to-2.

       H.     TRANSPORTATION MASTER PLAN, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
              AMENDMENTS TO ITS TRANSPORTATION MASTER PLAN.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing.

City Engineer, Trace Robinson reported that the Transportation Master Plan was approved
previously but there were items that needed to be cleaned up. There was also another plan
that was not submitted at the time the Commission went through the agreements. There
was an agreement with UDOT to install the traffic signal on Redwood Road when warranted.
This was also included in the plan.

It was noted that the road networks have been updated and some of the road sizes were
changed. Some road labels that did not show well were relabeled. Relabeled roads
included Redwood Road, Bangerter Highway, 11800 South, 12600 South, and 13400 South.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               19
December 10, 2020


The former Merit Badge logo was changed to the new Riverton logo. The width of 1300
West was also throttled down as one leaves 12600 South. It is a minor arterial and provides
access to the Rodeo grounds. There are also two proposed traffic signals. One is near the
Rodeo grounds that goes into 12830 South. It then goes to a 66-foot right-of-way to 13200
South, which is a major collector. From there toward the S curve it becomes a minor
collector. 13200 South was shown as a minor collector. New roadways were added.
Sentinel Boulevard/4500 West was shown as a future road but it has been completed.
Tingey Parkway is the new road that connects to Costco and is under construction. Curb
and gutter had already been constructed and it was ready to be paved.

Old Liberty Way Phase 1 was completed last July. The City’s portion of the project was from
Majestic Rise Parkway. From there to 12600 is an STP project, which is a five-lane road
that will include a possible future TRAX corridor. Construction began on November 9 and
was scheduled to be completed by June 5, 2021. 50% of the storm drains have been
constructed, most of the earth moving is done, and it was ready for road base. It was
expected to be completed in the next few months. Proposed roadways were also shown on
the plan. They will be completed as part of the Edge Home project and Riverton City will
pay for half of it. Herriman will pay for the other half.

The plan shows an extension of Dutchman Lane going through the Parkside Phase 3 project.
The extension will go to Old Liberty Way. Majestic Rise Parkway was also completed to the
Welby Canal. It will go out to bid in the next one or two months and will tie into Old Liberty
Way.

Another traffic signal was proposed on 13800 South and 4500 West and the Master Plan
was nearing completion and expected to be completed within one or two years.
Commissioner James asked what will take place after completion. Mr. Robinson reported
that the roads will then be widened. With regard to the Wasatch Front 2050 Plan, reverse
flex lanes were being considered on 12600 South and possible flex lanes on 13400 South.

Commissioner James asked if there was a way to control the traffic situation and accidents
on 2700 West. Mr. Robinson explained that at one time 2700 West was a wider road but
South Jordan narrowed it down. A study could be conducted to look at ways to improve it.

In response to an inquiry regarding Lovers Lane, Mr. Robinson stated that they have gone
out to bid on a project for the S Curve, which will be widened to a two-lane road with bike
lanes on each side of the road. There were plans to extend Lovers Lane to make it wide
enough to meet Fire Code.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner James moved to APPROVE the Master Transportation Plan, as shown.
Commissioner Hartley seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.
