CHAPTER 32
WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS

10-32-1: PURPOSE

This chapter is designed and intended to enact City-wide water efficiency standards that promote
conservation of the public’s water resources.

10-32-2: SCOPE

This chapter shall apply to all property within the corporate limits of the City except property
expressly exempted by this Title or other lawful exemptions.

10-32-3: DEFINITIONS

As used in the Chapter:

       A. “Act” means the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act as set forth
in Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-101, et seq.

      B. “Community Development Director” means the Herriman City Community
Development Director.

        C. “Engineering Standards” means the Herriman City Engineering Standards adopted by
Title 9, Chapter 2 of this Code, as amended.

       D. “Jordan Valley Water” means the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District.

       E. “Water Efficiency Standards” means the Herriman City water efficiency standards
adopted by this Chapter.

10-32-4: AUTHORITY

This chapter is enacted under authority of the Act, the general municipal welfare power as set forth
in Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-84, and the municipal police power as established by Utah common
law.

10-32-5: INTERPRETATION

        A. The Community Development Director is authorized and directed to administer and
interpret the Water Efficiency Standards.
        B. In the event of any inconsistency between the water efficiency standards enacted by
this Chapter and any other applicable standards, the provisions that provide the better water
conservation and efficient use of water, as determined by the Community Development Director,
shall control.

10-32-6: ADOPTION OF WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS

       A. The Water Efficiency Standards are hereby adopted.

       B. The Water Efficiency Standards shall be incorporated as an appendix to the
Engineering Standards and may be adopted by other departments within the City as such
departments enforce this Chapter under direction of the Community Development Director.

10-32-7: ENFORCEMENT

The Community Development Director is authorized to enforce the water efficiency standards
within the City.

10-32-8: TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS

The Community Development Director is authorized to update the Water Efficiency Standards as
necessary to comply with changes in:

       A.   Local, State, or Federal law;

       B. Local, State, or Federal administrative orders;

        C. Requirements from Jordan Valley Water or any other special or local service district
that supplies water to the City for municipal use; or

       D. Requirements from any other private water company that supplies water to the City
for municipal use.
