                                       City Council Meeting Agenda
                                               June 2, 2026



PRESENTER:             Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director


ITEM:
Ordinance No. 26-10 - Proposed Rezone of 1.47 Acres Located at Approximately 1393 West 12600 South
from RR-22 to C-G/PO-OV (Commercial Gateway with Pedestrian Oriented Overlay), Scott Yermish,
Newman Construction- Applicant. - Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
" On November 20, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this application. Minutes
from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission made a more comprehensive motion to
approve that included elements of the application that have since been removed. The portion of the
recommended motion relevant to the proposed change in zoning is as follows:
I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 26-10, rezoning 1.47 acres located at approximately 1393 West
12600 South from Rr-22 to C-G/PO-OV, (Commercial Gateway with Pedestrian Oriented Overlay), as shown
in Exhibit “A”.


SUMMARY:


This item is a proposed rezone of property located at approximately 1393 West 12600 South. The property
consists of four parcels with a total acreage of 1.47 acres. This application proceeded to this point as a
proposed project that included a Development Agreement, site planning and architecture, and incorporated
the publicly owned property to the west. The application has been reduced by the applicant to only a
requested change of zoning for the property owned by the applicant. All other elements of the application
are rescinded, and the only action requested is a zone change for the 1.47 acres.
That property is currently zoned RR-22, which is a single family residential designation. The General Plan
for the property is “Community Commercial” and the no change to the General Plan is requested or
required. The properties to the east and west are currently zoned RR-22, and the property to the south is
zoned Parks/Open Space. The proposed zone is C-G (Commercial Gateway), which is the commercial
zoning for existing commercial development along this section of the 12600 South Corridor, with the
“Pedestrian Oriented Overlay” applied, which makes the proposed zone C-G/PO-OV. The overlay is
intended to promote pedestrian-friendly uses and layouts, and includes additional restrictions and
standards. That proposed zoning was part of the original application.


FISCAL IMPACT:         N/A


FUNDING SOURCE: N/A
