                                  BUSINESS SERVICES AGREEMENT

        THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of July 1, 2024, between the SOUTH VALLEY
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE, a non-profit corporation of the State of Utah, with offices at 9800 South
Monroe Street, Suite 806, Sandy, UT 84070, (“Chamber”), and RIVERTON CITY, a municipal corporation
of the State of Utah, with offices at 12830 S. Redwood Road, Riverton, UT 84065 (“City”).

      WHEREAS, the Chamber is an organization created to assist businesses in building their business through
networking opportunities, marketing, education, and assisting with government entities; and

       WHEREAS, the City needs the services of a person or agency to assist the City in communicating with
and supporting the Riverton business community; and

       WHEREAS, the Chamber has the skills, resources, organization and interest in providing services to the
Riverton business community for the City; and

       WHEREAS, the City, having duly considered the matter, has determined that the welfare of the citizens
of the City as well as the growth, development and continued progress of the City would be enhanced if the
Chamber were to promote the Riverton City businesses, and economic development in the City, as well as City
programs and events as provided herein,

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises of the parties contained herein, the parties
hereby agree as follows:

       1. CHAMBER SERVICES & MEMBERSHIP BENEFITS. The Chamber shall provide the following
business-related services and member benefits to the City, at no additional cost beyond the contract amount:

       1.1.1 Act as a liaison between the City and the business community in Riverton to promote and
             support businesses and their interests.

       1.1.2 Act as a repository for business resources, gathering and disseminating City and other
               information
       pertaining to the business community, or to Riverton City generally.

       1.1.3 Provide networking opportunities and education to businesses in Riverton.

       1.1.4 Monitor the Utah State legislative process in relation to Riverton businesses and the City, and
             inform City officials of relevant issues.

       1.1.5 Provide leadership and staff support to Riverton City’s business retention and outreach
             programs.

       1.1.6 Hold various special events promoting area businesses, provide marketing / advertising support
             and assistance, and support and work cooperatively with the City in its business-related events
             and initiatives.
       1.1.7 Organize and execute ribbon cutting events for new businesses in Riverton, with the city as a co-
             sponsor.

       1.1.8 Monitor the views and concerns of the Riverton City business community and provide
             information to the Mayor on those concerns.

       1.1.9 Visit businesses in Riverton with a city representative on a regular basis.
       1.1.10 In cooperation with the City, the Chamber will host periodic business networking and
              educational events that will benefit and meet the needs of businesses in Riverton.

       1.1.11 The Chamber will maintain at its office all current information on the City and a link to the
              City’s website on the Chamber’s website, etc.

       1.1.12 Co-sponsor an annual event with the City to present business awards.

       1.1.13 Riverton City shall be considered a Presidential Sustaining Partner of the Chamber.

       1.1.14 The Chamber will provide Riverton City with the following benefits:

   A. Provide two ex-officio voting seats on the Chamber’s Board of Directors, with the representative being
      designated by the Mayor.
   B. Provide a seat on the Chamber’s Public Policy Committee.
   C. Provide recognition of the City’s support on the Chamber’s website homepage.
   D. Provide a one hole sponsorship in the annual Chamber’s golf tournament.
   E. Provide the City a foursome team in the annual Chamber’s golf tournament.
   F. Provide up to three free tickets for monthly Let’s Do Lunch events or similar events.
   G. Provide up to two free tickets for monthly Women in Business lunches or similar events.
   H. Provide member pricing for Chamber activities and events.
   I. Provide a table for eight (8) persons at the Chamber’s Titan Awards with VIP seating.



       2. CITY SERVICES & PARTNERSHIP BENEFITS: The City shall provide the following services and
partnership benefits to the South Valley Chamber:

   A. Designate the South Valley Chamber as the official Chamber of Commerce serving Riverton.
   B. Provide lists of new businesses that become licensed within Riverton on a monthly basis to Chamber
      staff.
   C. Give the Chamber permission to use the City’s official logo on the Chamber website and in
      informational marketing or membership collateral.
   D. Provide facility space at no charge once per month on mutually agreed upon dates, times and locations.
   E. Co-sponsor ribbon cutting events for new businesses.
   F. Co-sponsor an annual event with the Chamber to present business awards.
   G. Co-sponsor networking or business events on a mutually agreed upon basis.
   H. Provide a link to the Chamber’s website from the City’s website.
   I. Provide space in email newsletters to businesses on a quarterly basis, or as scheduled, to advertise
      Chamber events or initiatives.
   J. Provide marketing support for Chamber events held in Riverton.

        3. TERM & TERMINATION. The Chamber shall provide the services agreed to herein for a period of
three (3) years, beginning July 1, 2024, and terminating June 30, 2027. Either party may terminate this Agreement
at will upon 30 days written notice to the other party. Termination of this Agreement for any reason shall not
affect any of the rights, obligations or liability of the Parties hereto which may have accrued prior thereto.

       4. PAYMENT. The City shall pay the Chamber $20,000 (twenty thousand dollars and no cents) per
year paid annually. Payments will be made annually in July of each year. In the event of termination prior to June
30, 2024, payment to the Chamber shall be prorated for that part of the term for which services are owed and were
provided according to the terms of this Agreement in the same proportion as that part of the period during which
services were provided prior to termination divided by the whole period for which payment has not been made.

        5. MEETINGS. The Chamber’s Representative shall consult with the City’s designated Representative
about this Agreement at times mutually agreeable to them.

        6. REPORTS TO CITY. The Chamber's President or his designee shall, at least quarterly, report orally
and in writing to the Mayor or his designee regarding the status of the aforementioned services. The Chamber
shall on an annual basis, give a written report to the City Council on the yearly activities.

       7. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR. The Chamber is in all respects an independent contractor and not
an agent of the City; further, the officers and employees of the Chamber are not employed by the City.

        8. INDEMNITY. The Chamber agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City and its
officers, agents and employees from and against any and all claims, lawsuits, losses, damages, injuries, liabilities,
and costs, including but not limited to attorney’s fees and costs, arising out of claims of personal injury, death,
slander, defamation, or breach of trademark, patent, or copyright law, damages to personal property however
caused which results directly or indirectly from the negligent performance or failure to perform services under
this agreement rendered by the Chamber, its officers, employees, agents or contractors.

       9. ASSIGNMENT, SUBCONTRACT. Neither party shall assign any part of its rights and duties under
this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other.

       10. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties and
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations or agreements of the parties, either written or oral. This
Agreement may be amended only by written instrument signed by both parties

        11. AUTHORITY. The persons signing for and on behalf of the parties hereto warrant and represent
that they are duly authorized and empowered to enter into this Agreement for and on behalf of the party each
purport to represent, and that by their signatures, they do bind each such party to the terms of this Agreement.

       12. PARTIES’ REPRESENTATIVES. For purposes of notice required or desired by the parties, or
communication involving the services under this Agreement, such notice or communication shall be deemed to
have been given when personally delivered or mailed, certified mail, postage prepaid, to the parties at the
following addresses:

THE SOUTH VALLEY CHAMBER OF COMMERCE: President and Chief Executive Officer, at the South
Valley Chamber of Commerce’s address set out first above.

RIVERTON CITY:         at the address set out first above for the city,

or when given to such other person as either of the above representatives shall designate in writing. The
designation of any address may be changed by notice given in the same manner as provided in this paragraph.

        12. INSURANCE. The Chamber, at its own cost and expense, shall secure and maintain during the term
of this Agreement policies of insurance meeting the requirements of Exhibit “A”, attached hereto.

        13. FOLLOW LAWS, ORDINANCES. The Chamber's services hereunder shall conform in all details
and designs, with all applicable trademark, patent, and copyright law, and all applicable Federal, State and City
laws, regulations and ordinances.
        14. WAIVERS. No action or failure to act or to enforce a breach of this Agreement by the City, or its
officers, agents or employees shall constitute a waiver of any right or duty afforded it under this Agreement, nor
shall any such action or failure to act constitute an approval of or acquiescence in any subsequent breach except
as may be specifically agreed in writing.

       15. SEVERABILITY. In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
Agreement is invalid, the remaining portions shall remain in full force in effect unless they cannot reasonably be
construed to effectively implement the intent of the parties as provided herein.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have to sign their names here on the date set first above.

                                                     RIVERTON CITY CORPORATION



                                                     Trent Staggs, Mayor
ATTEST:

_________________________
City Recorder


                      SOUTH VALLEY CHAMBER OF COMMERCE

REVIEWED AND APPROVED by the Executive Committee this ______ day of                               , 2024.




                                      Jay K. Francis President and CEO
