                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            January 4, 2022
Subject:         Ordinance 22-01, Amending Section 10.10, Parking, of the
                 Riverton City Code, relating to unlawful parking in Riverton City,
                 Amendment proposed by Riverton City.


Motion Language:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #22-01, amending Riverton City Code Section 10.10,
Parking, addressing unlawful parking in Riverton City, as shown in Exhibit “A”.

Background

Riverton City Code Section 10.10 regulates parking within Riverton City municipal boundaries.
This text amendment, proposed by Riverton City, makes several clarifications to that section. One
specific amendment clarifies parking restrictions during winter months. The current language
implies that no on-street parking is permitted from November 1 to March 1 of the following year,
regardless of weather. The proposed amendment states that on-street parking is prohibited in
those months during a snowstorm, or when snow has accumulated in lanes of travel. One
additional amendment addresses parking a vehicle on a City street for the purposes of living within
that vehicle, which the amendment prohibits.

Notice was posted on the City’s web-page for this proposed change. This item did not require
review or recommendation from the Planning Commission. City Staff will present additional
information at the City Council’s hearing.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1. Proposed Amendment.




Report by: TJP
12/7/2021
10.10.010 Unlawful parking.

(1) Parking at Curb. No motor vehicle shall be parked with the left side of the vehicle next to the curb,
except on one-way streets. It shall be unlawful to stand or park any motor vehicle in a street other than
parallel with the curb and with the two right wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly
established curb line, except on those streets which have been marked for angle parking; then vehicles
shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.



(2) Loading Zone. When so posted, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a passenger vehicle to stand or
park such vehicle for a period of time longer than is permitted by the posted sign for the loading or
unloading of passengers, or for the driver to stand or park any freight carrying motor vehicle for a period
of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and deliver materials in any place designated as a
loading zone and marked as such.



(3) Parking Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle on any street in
violation of posted parking restrictions or any provisions of City Code. . This subsection shall not apply
to physicians, nurses, emergency medical technicians, paramedics, fire fighters, law enforcement
officers, or other government personnel responding to a bona fide emergency.



(4) Alleys. No person shall park a motor vehicle within an alley in such manner or under such conditions
as to leave less than 10 feet of the width of the roadway or alley available for the free movement of
vehicular traffic. No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.



(5) Cab Stands – Bus Stands. No motor vehicle other than a designated public transportation vehicle or
licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area designated by ordinance as a taxicab stand and no vehicle
other than a bus shall stop, stand or park be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading zone.



(6) Parking Prohibited.

         (a)      It shall be an infraction for any person to park or leave standing on any public road,
street, alley or city property any motor vehicle for 48 or more consecutive hours, and any vehicle so
parked or left standing may be impounded or removed by law enforcement the chief of police. For
purposes of impoundment and removal, the chief of police may impound and remove any motor vehicle
which reasonably appears to have remained unmoved for 48 consecutive hours.

        (b) It is an infraction for any person park any vehicle designed/constructed for the purpose of
providing living accommodations (hereinafter “recreational vehicle”) on any public grounds and
thereafter reside in said recreational vehicle for any length of time. For the purpose of this section, the
term "public grounds" means any real property, including public streets, owned in whole or in part by
the United States Of America and its agencies, or the state of Utah or any of its political subdivisions,
including Riverton City, upon which camping has not been authorized by the owner. It is unlawful for
any person using or benefiting from the use of said recreational vehicle to fail to remove the same for
more than twenty five (25) minutes after being requested to do so by any police officer. Any
recreational vehicle so parked or left standing may be impounded or removed by law enforcement

        (c) The cost of impoundment and removal shall be charged to the owner or any person who
claims the impounded motor vehicle.

Penalty reference: RCC 10.05.060.



10.10.020 Parking or blocking streets or highways

In addition to the parking provisions contained in the Motor Vehicle Act, as adopted by this city, it shall
be a class C misdemeanor for any person to:



(1) Remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in such a manner as to obstruct the free
passage of vehicular or pedestrian traffic thereon.



(2) Willfully remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in such manner for more than one
minute after being requested to move by any police officer.



(3) Willfully remain on such street or highway in such manner as to obstruct the free passage of any
person or vehicle into or out of any property abutting upon the street or highway or any property having
access to such street or highway.



Penalty reference: RCC 10.05.060.



10.10.030 Commercial and agricultural vehicles and trailers.

Deleted during 2011 recodification. [Code 1997 § 11-3-40.]



10.10.040 No parking.

Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, or in the Motor Vehicle Act, it shall be an infraction to park or
leave standing at any time a motor vehicle, as defined in the Motor Vehicle Act as adopted by this city,
in violation of any no parking sign.
10.10.050 Limited winter parking.

(1) It shall be unlawful for any person or owner of any vehicle to park a motor vehicle, travel trailer,
horse trailer, utility trailer, or other like vehicle on any street in Riverton City from the date of November
1st of each year until the date of March 1st of the following year during a snowstorm, or when snow has
accumulated in lanes of travel on a city street. and from the date of November 1st of each year until the
date of March 1st of the following year.

(2) Notwithstanding the foregoing restriction, a person may park a motor vehicle on a street within
Riverton City:

        (a) For a period of time not longer than three minutes when loading or unloading passengers;
        and

        (b) For a period of time not longer than 30 minutes when loading, unloading or delivering
        property.

(3) A violation of this section shall be punishable as an infraction, by impoundment and removal of the
vehicle, or both.

10.10.060 Special parking regulations.

No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose of:

(1) Greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an emergency; and

(2) The sale of foodstuffs or other merchandise in any business district on any public grounds except as
described in Chapter 18.230 of this Code. For the purpose of this section, the term "public grounds"
means any real property owned in whole or in part by the United States Of America and its agencies, or
the state of Utah or any of its political subdivisions, including Riverton City.

Violations of this section shall be punishable as an infraction.
