                                           STATE OF UTAH
GARY    R.   HERBERT                       OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR                                  SPENCER     J. Cox
   GOVERNOR                                                                                       LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR
                                              SALT LAKE CITY,        UTAH
                                                     84114-2220




                                                    October 24, 2019


       President Donald J. Trump
       1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
       Washington, D.C. 20500

       Dear Mr. President,

                Thank you for your willingness to work with governors and solicit our input and expertise on
       policies that impact states.

               I write today in response to your recent executive order regarding refugee resettlement policies
       and your expressed desire to work more closely with state and local leaders. I encourage you to allow us
       to accept more international refugees in Utah. We have historically accepted and resettled more than
       1,000 refugees each year from a variety of troubled regions of the world. Unfortunately, that number has
       dropped for the past two years and is on track to decrease more this year. We know the need has not
       decreased and are eager to see the number of admittances rise again.

               Utah's unique history informs our approach to refugees. Our state was founded by religious
       refugees fleeing persecution in the Eastern United States. Those experiences and hardships of our pioneer
       ancestors 170 years ago are still fresh in the minds of many Utahns. As a result we empathize deeply with
       individuals and groups who have been forced from their homes and we love giving them a new home and
       a new life.

                And it turns out we do it quite well. Those refugees who resettle in Utah become integrated and
       accepted into our communities. They become productive employees and responsible citizens. They
       become contributors in our schools, churches and other civic institutions, even helping serve more recent
       refugees and thus generating a beautiful cycle of charity. This marvelous compassion is simply embedded
       into our state' s culture.

                I also recognize that there is a logical limit to how many refugees can be successfully integrated
       into a state or nation in a given period oftime. However, in Utah we are far from reaching that limit. We
       work closely with our local resettlement agencies and many faith based organizations, and we have the
       capacity and public will to resettle and integrate at least as many refugees as we have in the past.



                                                                  ~e~rt/}:7:+-
                                                                         Gary R. Herbert
                                                                         Governor
