                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            November 12, 2020
Subject:         Zone Text Change-Amending Section 18.90.10, Table of Commercial Uses
                 Chart to designate “Auto Glass Repair and Retail” as a Permitted Use in the
                 C-D Zone, Megan Mendoza, Applicant.



On October 22, 2020, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item. The
Commission voted to recommend approval of this application, with the amendment
described below. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning
Commission recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 20-27, amending Section 18.90.10, Table of
Commercial Uses, combining “Auto glass repair and retail” the “Automobile repair and related
services line” with the uses as listed for “Automobile repair…”.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Zoning Text Change to the Table of Commercial Uses Chart. The
applicant is requesting that “Auto Glass Repair and Retail”, which is currently not permitted in the
Commercial Downtown Zone, be designated a “permitted” use. The applicant would like to
establish an auto glass repair and retail business in a building that was until recently occupied by
an auto emissions testing site. However, while “Automobile Repair and Related Services” is a
conditional use, auto glass work is specifically not permitted.

The Planning Commission, in review of this application, recommended that the autoglass use be
incorporated into the existing “Automobile repair and related services” line, with the uses as
currently adopted for that line. The Commission also recommended including “tire repair and
retail” in this use, as well. This clarifies the table, and, as the autoglass and tire uses are similar
in intensity and impact to automobile repair, does not create any new or unanticipated impacts in
those commercial zones. Staff concurs with the Commission’s recommendation.

The current Table of Commercial Uses reads as follows, with auto glass highlighted:




Report by: TJP
11/11/2020
                                     Table of Commercial Uses

                     Permitted Uses, Uses Not Permitted, and Conditional Uses

                         P = Permitted   NP = Not Permitted   C = Conditional

        The written text as found in this title shall supersede any attachments or tables.

                               LAND USE                                 C-D C-G C-N C-PO C-R

Apparel alteration and shoe repair                                      P    C    C    NP    P

Apparel and accessories retail and rental (apparel, accessories,
                                                                        P    P    NP   NP    P
tailoring, fur, shoes)

Artists and related services                                            C    C    NP   C     P

Auto parts retail                                                       C    C    NP   NP    P

Auto dealership (new or used)                                           NP   NP   NP   NP    P

Auto glass repair and retail                                            NP   C    NP   NP    NP

Automobile repair and related services                                  C    C    NP   NP    P



The proposed amendment would read:

                                LAND USE                                C-D C-G C-N C-PO C-R

Auto glass repair and retail                                            NP   C    NP   NP    NP

Automobile repair and related services, including auto glass and tire
                                                                         C   C    NP   NP    P
repair and retail.




Report by: TJP
11/11/2020
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               8
October 22, 2020


Commissioner Russell seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

4.    ZONE TEXT CHANGE, MEGAN MENDOZA ON BEHALF OF PRIME AUTO GLASS
      IS REQUESTING A TEXT AMENDMENT TO THE TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES
      CHART ALLOWING “AUTO GLASS REPAIR AND RETAIL” AS A PERMITTED USE
      IN THE COMMERCIAL DOWNTOWN ZONE.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that what is proposed is a zone text
change to allow “Auto Glass Repair and Retail” in the Commercial Downtown (“CD”) zone.
The Table of Commercial Uses does not include Auto Glass Repair and Retail. Staff was
seeking a recommendation to the City Council to change Auto Glass Repair and Retail to
be conditional in the CD zone or change it to be the same as Automobile Repair and Related
Services, which is conditional in the Downtown Gateway and permitted in the Commercial
Regional zones.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing.

Concern was expressed about potentially allowing a gamut of other related services.
Mr. Prestwich explained that “Automobile Repair and Related Services” already exists, but
“Auto Glass Repair and Retail” would include chip repair or full-service window replacement.

Commissioner Rushton asked how a tire store would be classified. Mr. Prestwich stated
that “Tire Sales and Repair” is its own unique line item.

Commissioner James did not consider “Auto Glass Sales and Repair” to be more intrusive
than the other. Mr. Prestwich noted that staff’s intent was to bring the entire table back to
the Commission for further review. The application was specific to what the applicant is
proposing. Commissioner James asked about combining the related uses into one.

The applicant, Jose Mendoza identified himself as the owner of Prime Auto Glass. They
have been in business for 15 years and have served Utah County for seven years. When
they found the proposed second location, they were surprised to learn that auto glass was
not permitted there. They offer auto glass replacement, windshield repair, and window
tinting. Most of their auto glass is done via a mobile service. The main service at the
proposed location would primarily involve window tinting. Mr. Mendoza stated that the
proposed location will be ideal for their family.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner James moved to recommend APPROVAL of the Zone Text Change to
Section 18.90, Table of Commercial Uses by removing the line that describes “Auto
Glass Repair and Retail” and amending the next line to read “Automobile Repair
Related Services including Glass Repair and Retail and Tire Sales and Repair”.
Commissioner Hartley seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.
