                               MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:           Planning Department
Date:           October 17, 2023
Subject:        Discussion- Artificial Turf use in Riverton City.


This item is for discussion only.

Background

Riverton City’s ordinances regarding landscaping currently does not specifically address the use of
artificial turf. Artificial turf is being used more frequently in both residential and commercial
landscaping in Utah, and Staff has had inquiries from both types of projects in Riverton City as to its
use.
Done correctly, artificial turf can be visually difficult to distinguish from live sod, and has the durability
to withstand the elements. Done poorly, it can look like lumpy green carpet. Staff has investigated
industry standards as well as ordinances adopted by other cities in Utah, and has prepared a draft
ordinance for discussion with the Council. The standards address both the composition of the turf
itself, and preparation of the area where it will be used. The recommendation includes a minimum
“pile height”, which is the length of the grass blade, and ‘face weight’ which is the density of material
per square yard. These are based on industry information, and represent a minimum necessary for
acceptable appearance of the turf. Preparation requirements include a subbase and leveling of the
area, proper anchoring of the turf material, and proper grading to address runoff and pooling of
water. A minimum eight year warranty against fading or wear is also required. With these standards
in place, artificial turf installation should maintain the visual appeal of live grass or sod.
One point of discussion with the Council is where such turf should be allowed. There are some
cities, such as West Valley City, that restrict its use to residential properties. Salt Lake City allows
artificial turf, but it cannot replace any landscaping required by ordinance. However, turf used
correctly in commercial projects can be both visually appealing and durable, as commercial projects
typically include low traffic areas of landscaping. One potential limiting factor may be to restrict
artificial turf use to no more than 50% of required landscape areas in a commercial project.
An example of ordinance language is included below, as well as an information flyer on one
type of artificial turf. Staff will present additional information at the hearing.
Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Example Ordinance
        2. Artificial turf industry flyer
        3. Visual examples



Report by: JL
11/2/2023
ARTIFICIAL TURF.

Artificial turf may be used as Landscaping upon issuance of a no-fee permit from the
Development Services Department and/or as approved with Site Plan or Subdivision applications,
if it complies with all the following standards:

    (1) Artificial turf shall consist of green lifelike individual blades of grass that emulate natural
    turf in look and color, have a minimum pile height of one and one-half (1.5) inches, and a
    face weight of fifty (50) ounces per square yard. The minimum pile height for high traffic
    areas such as playgrounds may be reduced to one and one-quarter inches as approved by
    the City.

    (2) Artificial turf shall have a minimum eight-year manufacturer’s warranty protecting
    against color fading and decrease in pile height. The use of indoor or outdoor plastic or
    nylon carpeting is prohibited.

    (3) Artificial turf shall be properly anchored to ensure that the turf will withstand the effects
    of wind and use. All seams shall be nailed and glued, not sewn, and edges shall be trimmed
    to fit against all regular and irregular edges to resemble a natural look.

    (4) Artificial turf area shall be visually compacted and level, and shall not be installed over
    grass or other plants. Artificial turf shall also not be installed over dirt that is not covered by
    a minimum two-inch sub-base layer of aggregate, such as compacted gravel or crushed
    stone or a similar application designed specifically for artificial turf sub-base. Proper grading,
    compaction, and drainage shall be provided for all artificial turf installations to prevent
    excess runoff or pooling of water and artificial turf installations shall have a minimum
    permeability of 30 inches per hour per square yard.

    (5) Artificial turf shall not be installed in within any drainage features, including ponds,
    swales, and retention/detention basins.

    (6) A solid barrier device such as a concrete mow strip, sidewalk, driveway, or bender board
    shall be required to separate artificial turf from planters, live vegetation, and property
    boundaries.

    (7) Where artificial turf is installed adjacent to new trees or new shrubs, a minimum two-
    foot separation between the artificial turf and the tree trunks and shrubs shall be
    maintained to allow for plant growth.

    (8) Artificial turf shall be cleaned regularly and maintained in an appropriate and neat
    manner. It shall be replaced if it is worn, uneven, discolored, or damaged.
(9) The City shall not be responsible for any costs to repair or replace artificial turf damaged
or disturbed as part of utility and street repair and maintenance work within the pubic right-
of-way, including park strips.
                   Poor installation examples




rivertonutah.gov
                   Good installation examples




rivertonutah.gov
Rocky Mountain Alta Turf                                         RM375




               Product Overview
                                                                                        Ideal for Landscaping
 Incredibly realistic at an affordable price, our
 Alta Turf is our most popular product for
 residential lawns. Alta Turf has multi-colored
 blades and a tan thatching which contribute to
 its realism. Alta Turf is less dense and not as                                        Pet Friendly
 tall as the other products but makes it a perfect
 fit for the high desert region.


                                                                             15         15 Year Warranty
           Product Specifications

Yarn #1 Type: Grass Blades
Color: Multi-Color Olive Green / Field Green
Yarn Cross Section: S-shape                                                             Heat Reduction Technology
Yarn #2 Type: Texturized Thatch
Color: Field Green / Jute

Face Weight: 50 Oz. / SqYd
Primary Coating: 7 Oz. / SqYd                                                           BioCel Polyurethane
Secondary Coating: 20 Oz. Polyurethane / SqYd
Total Product WT: 77 Oz. / SqYd
Pile Height: Approx. 1 ! ”
Drainage Rate: Excellent (>100” per hour)
Roll Width: 15’                                                                         Antimicrobial Additives




All Rocky Mountain Turf products are recyclable and provide numerous
other environmental benefits, including a reduced carbon footprint and a
significant reduction of household or commercial water usage.
                                                                                              Recyclable        Responsible
Additional Information
This product is part of Rocky Mountain Turf’s Product Series and was designed and
engineered for Pet and Landscape artificial turf applications. The standard of quality of                     Made In The
the synthetic grass product shall be Alta Turf by Rocky Mountain Turf or an approved                          USA
equivalent product meeting the following specifications.


                                                                            (801) 808-0015
                                                                         www.artificialturfutah.com
