                              MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:           Planning Department
Date:           July 16, 2024
Subject:        Ordinance 24-13, Code Text Amendment, Amending Section 18.195.060(3),
                regulating the requirements for private or quasi-public schools, Amendment
                proposed by Riverton City.


On June 27, 2024, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this item,
which had been continued from a previous meeting. Minutes from both meetings are
included below. The Planning Commission voted to recommend approval, with the
following recommended motion:

     I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 24-13, amending Section 18.195.060(3), Private or
     Quasi-Public School, with amendments as described in Exhibit “A”.

Background

 Riverton City Code Section 18.195.060 addresses specific standards for particular uses which
require a Conditional Use Permit prior to development of property. One such use is “Private and
Quasi-Public Schools”. As that category of use can create impacts to surrounding areas, such as
traffic generation, a Conditional Use Permit is required to review the proposed use. When Riverton
City adopted this section of code, a minimum acreage was included which required project area to
be at least three (3) acres for a private or quasi-public school. The Code also includes other relevant
requirements for that use, including the authority in the Conditional Use approval to impose
limitations on building size, number of students, and provided services relative to the project’s
location and property size. With that authority in place, and language allowing the City to require
more acreage if deemed necessary, the current prohibition on applications for property below three
(3) acres was reviewed by staff following discussion with City Council. Based on that review, staff is
recommending amending the code to set the minimum parcel size at one (1) acre, which is more
consistent with other similar requirements in the Code, while still preserving the ability through the
Conditional Use Permit process to insure potential impacts from a project are property addressed.

To further address potential impacts, the proposed amendment restricts private or quasi-public
schools in residential zones to property adjacent to an arterial or collector street as defined in the
Master Transportation Plan. These are the largest roadway classifications, and are roadways
designed to accommodate increased traffic capacity. The proposed amendment also includes
language requiring potential impacts such as traffic, noise, parking, etc, to be identified and
addressed in the Conditional Use Permit process.

The proposed text amendment is as follows, with proposed changes in red:

Report by: JL
7/10/2024
18.195.060 Special standards and considerations governing particular uses.
3) Private or Quasi-Public School. Conditional use approval of private or quasi-public schools shall
only be given based on the following conditions and considerations:
       (a) If the private or quasi-public school includes boarding facilities, the city may impose such
       limitations as the city believes to be in the public interest relating to the sex, age, and number
       of students that may be boarded or otherwise participate in the schooling and other services
       provided by the school. The city may also impose student-to-staff ratio requirements for the
       school.
       (b) The number of students allowed to attend or to be boarded at a private or quasi-public
       school shall be determined based, in part, on the size of the parcel of property on which the
       school is to be located.
              (i) The minimum property required for any private or quasi-public school shall be three
              one (1) acres. More acreage shall may be required for larger facilities as determined by
              the city.
       (c) Private or quasi-public schools shall only be allowed by Conditional Use Permit in residential
       zones where adjacent to a collector or arterial roadway, as designated in the Riverton City
       Master Transportation Plan. This does not include roadways designated as “minor collector”
       streets.
       (d) The city may further restrict the location of private or quasi-public schools in the interest of
       the community. Such restrictions shall include not allowing private or quasi-public schools to
       be located in close proximity to similar schools and facilities or to facilities, improvements, or
       developments that may be impacted by such schools or that may create potential risks or
       problems for the schools or area residents. Potential impacts such as traffic, noise, parking,
       emergency response, stormwater, etc. shall be identified during the conditional use permit
       review process and mitigation identified and proposed. Private or quasi-public schools shall
       not be allowed on local or private streets.


Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Section 18.195 (showing proposed changes)
        2. A copy of the Master Transportation Plan




Report by: JL
7/10/2024
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               7
June 27 2024



      B.     "SCHOOL ORDINANCE CODE TEXT AMENDMENT," PLZ-24-5002,
             AMENDING RIVERTON CITY CODE SECTION 18.195.060(3)(I),
             ADDRESSING MINIMUM PARCEL SIZE FOR A PRIVATE OR QUASI-
             PUBLIC SCHOOL.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the Staff Report and indicated that the item was heard at a
previous Planning Commission meeting, where discussions were held regarding the
proposed amendment and its potential ripple effects. This section of City Code regulates
schools that are outside the public school system. The current Code specifies a minimum
parcel size of three acres, and there has been interest in the community to open this type of
school on a smaller parcel. Discussions were held between Staff and the City Council
regarding why the three-acre minimum was imposed. When it was adopted, broad impacts
were considered. The initial presentation to the Planning Commission proposed decreasing
the minimum from three acres to one acre. Other standards allow the Commission to require
more property to accommodate parking, circulation, and other site-specific needs. Potential
impacts were reviewed, including the number of pickups and drop-offs and their traffic
impacts, and additional changes were made in an attempt to address those concerns and
simplify the Code.

When the ordinance was adopted, there were only a couple of private schools. A proposed
school was very large with a potential student population in the hundreds. That school did
not come to Riverton City but if it had, the impacts could have been significant. That market
is now focusing on smaller applications. For example, the Montessori School on 13200
South is smaller in scale and has a smaller student body. The proposed amendment would
decrease the minimum required parcel size from three acres to one acre, but the language
would be retained in the ordinance to indicate that more acreage may be required for larger
facilities as determined by the City. That would allow the Planning Commission to make
decisions in context.

The amendment specifies that these types of schools will be allowed only on property
adjacent to a collector or arterial roadway. These are larger roads, for example, Redwood
Road, that are designed for higher capacity use. Minor collector streets are excluded.
These quasi-public schools will not be permitted in residential zones. This helps the City
regulate impacts inside of neighborhoods, on cul-de-sacs, or smaller streets that are not
designed to accommodate that type of traffic. Potential impacts including traffic noise,
parking, emergency response, and stormwater would be considered when the Conditional
Use Permit is reviewed. Existing language that will be retained in the Code specifies that
further restrictions can be imposed based on proximity to other schools and the
neighborhood's context. The language is not overly specific to avoid unintended
consequences and leaves discretion to the Commission to set requirements and limitations
based on the specific application but also make clear what must be addressed.

Commissioner Cannon thanked Mr. Lethbridge for clarifying the wording in the amendment.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               8
June 27 2024


In response to a question from Commissioner Park, Mr. Carter stated that there should not
be any compliance issues with state law with regard to the size of the property.

Commissioner Rushton stated that he hoped to see the number of students outlined in the
amendment. Mr. Lethbridge noted that daycares and home schools are addressed in
Section 2, and sports in Section 3. He gave an example of six-year-olds going to a home
school in someone's basement versus 16-year-olds attending that school. Section
18.195.060(3)(b) in the existing Code states, "The number of students allowed to attend or
be boarded at a private or quasi-public school shall be determined based in part on the size
of the parcel or property on which the school is to be located." Part of the Conditional Use
Permit process is reviewing the number of students and determining whether the property
is sufficient for that number of students. The authority is already there for the Planning
Commission to say, for example, that the number of students or demographic of students
being proposed would create impacts that could not be mitigated.

In response to a follow-up question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Lethbridge stated that
if someone applies to open a home-based quasi-public school, the Home Occupation
Ordinance would take precedence. They would have to meet the same requirements as
home-based daycares, preschools, dance studios, etc. This ordinance would not entitle
someone to open a school in their home. These types of schools are a conditional use in
residential property. If someone desires to convert a home into a school, the ordinance
would apply but they could not circumvent the Home Occupation Ordinance by saying they
are a private school. If they want to open this type of school in an empty commercial space,
it would still be a conditional use. If the property has poor air circulation or insufficient
parking, the Planning Commission would have the authority to deny the application. The
underlying zoning in that case would be governed by the Commercial Code. This
amendment only applies to residential zoning.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cannon moved to recommend APPROVAL of the Amendment of
Riverton City Code Section 18.195.060(3)(I) Addressing Minimum Parcel Size for a
Private or Quasi-Public School, as presented. Commissioner Cluff seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

      C.     "NEWMAN OFFICE", PLZ-24-8002, AN APPLICATION FOR A
             COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN ON 2.3 ACRES LOCATED AT 13309 SOUTH
             REDWOOD RD. APPLICANT - MARK NEWMAN.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and stated that it is a Commercial
Site Plan for a new office building on the east side of Redwood Road, south of Holy Trinity
Lutheran Church and School. All other neighboring properties are zoned R-22 Residential.
At the Planning Commission's request, the Newman property was rezoned Commercial
Professional Office ("C-PO") by the City Council several years ago. The property sits level
with Redwood Road but slopes at the rear. Holy Trinity's site drains into a pond area
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                19
May 23, 2024



       7.     The applicant must have portable toilets for public use on-site,
              consistent with Salt Lake County Health Department requirements.

       8.     Portable temporary lighting may be used and must be turned off at
              10:00 p.m. Lighting shall be directed away from residences and be
              compliant with the Commercial Exterior Lighting Ordinance.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Cluff. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       D.     SCHOOL ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE, PLZ-24-5002, RIVERTON CITY
              PROPOSES TO AMEND SECTION 18.195.060(3)(b)(i), ADDRESSING
              MINIMUM PARCEL SIZE FOR A PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC SCHOOL.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that there are various methods by which
an ordinance changes. One method involves an application submitted by an applicant, which
is then directly responded to by the Commission. Another method involves the City Council
directing Staff to make a change to the Code. Additionally, Staff may introduce an
application or proposed change that seems logical after discussions with property owners,
potential applicants, and informal conversations with City Council members. The current
proposal falls into the latter category.

Mr. Prestwich mentioned that changes in circumstances have rendered the existing Code
less practical and potentially counterproductive. Therefore, an amendment is being
proposed to gauge the City Planning Commission and City Council's perspective on the
matter. The proposal is highly specific to private or quasi-public schools.

The proposed Code amendment pertains specifically to private or quasi-public schools.
These schools are classified as a conditional use within the existing Code and are permitted
in residential areas, with potential allowance in commercial areas as well. Currently, a
minimum property size of three acres is mandated for such schools. This requirement was
implemented in response to a previous attempt by a large charter and private school to
establish itself within the City.

Recent modifications to State Code, along with feedback received from potential applicants,
have revealed a trend towards smaller schools with fewer students. In some cases, these
schools may only require one acre or even less property. This trend constituted new
information for the Staff. Interest has been expressed by prospective schools in locating
within Riverton to serve the communities of Riverton, South Jordan, and the southwestern
portion of the valley. However, these potential sites often fail to meet the current three-acre
minimum requirement.

The proposal does not advocate for alterations to existing parking or landscaping
requirements. It aims to allow proposals from smaller schools for sites as small as one acre.
The proposed Code language would state: The minimum property required for a private or
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              20
May 23, 2024


quasi-public school shall be one acre. More acreage may be required for larger facilities as
determined by the city. The Planning Commission would retain its authority to review each
proposed site and could mandate a larger property size if deemed necessary.

A suggestion was made to replace the term “parking” with drop off and pick up within the
proposal. This change was presented as a more accurate reflection of the traffic challenges
associated with smaller schools. It was noted that smaller schools typically have limited
staff, often consisting of only five to 10 teachers and a few cooks. The primary concern
identified was traffic congestion, particularly on busy roads experiencing increasing traffic
volume. The current proposal was acknowledged as addressing a specific parcel of land
while also emphasizing growing traffic concerns on moderately busy roads.

It was elaborated that one of the initial concerns that led to the three-acre minimum
requirement for properties pertained to the challenges associated with site drop-off. A
specific facility with nearly 30,000 square feet was mentioned, which would be impossible to
fit on a one-acre lot and barely manageable on a close-to-three-acre property.

Commissioner Park indicated that any concerns regarding the site plan for a one-acre
property would be addressed during the application submission process and subsequently
evaluated at that time. Mr. Prestwich assured the Commission that any issues arising would
be dealt with accordingly. He suggested adding a provision empowering the city council to
adopt a motion. The motion would specify that larger facilities might require additional
acreage to accommodate drop-off and pick-up needs.

Commissioner Park was not familiar with the term "quasi-public school" and asked if it
encompasses charter schools. It was confirmed that charter schools are the most relevant
example. Further explanation was offered by Mr. Carter who observed a trend of schools
decentralizing into smaller homeschooling-style arrangements potentially involving multiple
families. These arrangements could potentially be categorized as quasi-public schools.
Mention was made of a Council Member's past unsuccessful consideration of marketing a
portable school facility resembling a large trailer outfitted for educational purposes. This
type of facility could also be considered quasi-public under the proposed designation.

A question was then raised by Commissioner Park regarding the applicability of this re-
designation to a residence used by a large homeschool group. They questioned whether
the proposal was intended solely for new structures on undeveloped land, given the scarcity
of available three-acre properties. Agreement with this concern was expressed by
Mr. Carter, who confirmed that a house could be adapted into a school facility or a new
building could be constructed.

An inconsistency was highlighted by Mr. Carter regarding the minimum lot size requirement.
He pointed out that, according to the Land Use Development and Management Act
(“LUDMA”), State statutes prohibit using property size as a basis for denying a rezoning
application. This raised concerns that such requirements within the Code might ultimately
be deemed incompatible with the statute by the courts.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                21
May 23, 2024


The current Code could be in direct conflict with the statute. The issue would remain
unresolved regardless of any actions taken by the Commission. Attention was drawn by
Commissioner Rushton to their previous discussion on quasi-public schools. His perception
was that there was a minimal distinction between applications for grades one through 12
and preschools, many of which are home-based rather than requiring specific acreage. It
was noted that consideration of such applications often focuses on the amount of home
space utilized and the availability of off-street parking.

A suggestion for a revised approach was presented by Commissioner Rushton. This
suggestion encouraged the Commission to consider emerging educational trends, such as
micro-schools and neighborhood schools to ensure that the regulations remain relevant in
the future. Emphasis was placed on Utah's focus on educational choice and the Scholarship
Act, which Commissioner Rushton observed as contributing to a growing movement towards
home-based non-public schools that still functioned within the established education system.
Anticipation was expressed regarding the potential for these schools to appear in various
locations throughout the City, including homes, strip malls, and new flex units. Parking and
traffic flow were identified as the key considerations in such scenarios.

Commissioner Rushton proposed a delay in the decision and a reconsideration of the current
approach and suggested a move away from relying solely on acreage for determining
suitability. Mr. Prestwich agreed with this suggestion he pointed out that the existing Code
classified public and quasi-public schools as conditional uses in residential zones. This
included private or quasi-public schools but only if they possess a minimum of three acres.
The proposed amendment would allow such schools to operate on one acre instead.

A previous case involving a woman who started a preschool in her home was recalled by
Commissioner Rushton. She intended to gradually add a grade each year, ultimately
transforming it into a full-fledged school. While the initial application was considered due to
its home-based nature, Commissioner Rushton noted the inconsistency of applying an acre
standard for subsequent grades. Clarification was provided regarding the distinction
between home-based businesses, which are required to maintain a residential character,
and the proposed change, which involved the conversion of a home into a full-time school
facility.

An inquiry was made regarding the hypothetical scenario of someone establishing a high
school for teenagers in a residence. There was some question as to whether such a facility
would be treated like a daycare or preschool. In that case, factors like the number of people
on-site, off-street parking availability, number of employees, and other established home-
based business criteria would be evaluated. As long as the homeowner continued to reside
in the dwelling, these same conditions would apply. However, if the intention was to operate
the location strictly as a private school on a one-acre property, the Conditional Use Code
currently under discussion would be relevant.

Emphasis was placed on the specific focus of part three (3.b.i.). However, it was
acknowledged that parts A, B, and C also exist and should be considered for a
comprehensive understanding of the context. The conversion of a residence to a
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 22
May 23, 2024


commercial use within a residential zone would still be permitted, provided it functioned as
a school. This aligns with the treatment of churches and other entities classified as public
or quasi-public schools.

A scenario was presented inquiring about the process for establishing a school within a
commercial space, such as a strip mall, without a designated acre of land. It was clarified
that this situation would be handled differently as it would fall under the table of uses
established for commercial properties. The current discussion was emphasized to be
focused exclusively on residential zones.

Further clarification was provided regarding conditional uses listed within the zoning
regulations. This included commercial neighborhood zones, where adherence to the
specified conditions would still be mandatory. It was reported that the Conditional Use
designation is broad and applies to any zone where a school is proposed. Schools listed as
conditional within the table of uses would be required to meet the specified conditions.
Conversely, schools listed as permitted within the table of uses could proceed without the
need to meet those specific conditions.

An inquiry was made regarding the necessity of a one-acre lot for a standalone entity,
separate from a strip mall, seeking to establish a school. Clarification was provided
explaining that the zoning designation would be the determining factor. Specifically, any
residential zone listing schools as a Conditional Use would require the one-acre minimum,
with this requirement also applying to certain commercial zones.

Commissioner Cluff questioned the existence of similar requirements for other entities, such
as churches. She also inquired about the rationale behind the minimum acreage
requirement for schools. An explanation was offered by detailing the historical context for
the requirement. It originated from a previous attempt by a school to comply with all other
zoning regulations, including landscaping and parking, but ultimately encountering
challenges in site functionality. Despite meeting existing regulations, the Planning
Commission or City Council at the time determined the site to be too constrained and opted
to avoid a similar situation in the future.

A question was raised regarding the potential for including additional stipulations within the
text. These stipulations could specify requirements based on the number of students, such
as a ratio of students per acre or drop-offs per acre. Mr. Prestwich responded by suggesting
the addition of a condition that mandates such a calculation. He further suggested that the
text could be revised to require an assessment of the potential impact on the surrounding
neighborhood, with the level of assessment inversely proportional to the size of the proposed
site. He additionally highlighted the current wording's failure to differentiate between various
street types, neglecting to distinguish between collector streets, major streets, and interior
neighborhood streets.

A comparison was drawn to the existing chicken Code. It was stated that the Code allows
for a certain number of chickens on a specified number of lots. Mr. Prestwich agreed with
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 23
May 23, 2024


the possibility of applying a similar approach to schools, permitting a specific student
capacity on parcels of designated sizes.

A question was raised regarding any existing traffic study requirements for schools. It was
reported that a Traffic Study would be mandatory for schools proposing a commercial site
plan. Mr. Prestwich cited the example of Challenger, a school that historically attempted to
establish itself on a nearly three-acre parcel with a 30,000-square-foot building. He
elaborated that the traffic engineer would adjust the study to meet established standards,
regardless of whether the property was designated residential or commercial and whether a
traffic study was otherwise required.

Mr. Prestwich commented on the potential perception of a traffic study as meaningless. He
explained that engineers would adjust timing elements, such as extending drop-off periods
from 20 minutes to an hour, to ensure the requirements of the study are met. He suggested
a potential shift in focus toward establishing a student-to-acre ratio, considering the
observed tendency of most parents to arrive only five minutes before school commences.
An inquiry was made regarding the actions taken or currently being undertaken by other
Cities in similar situations. Mr. Prestwich acknowledged the value of such information and
agreed with the suggestion to research and report the findings back to the Commission.

Commissioner Cannon was interested in the ongoing discussions. He highlighted recent
examples involving proposals for development on smaller land parcels. The challenges
associated with infill development, particularly when compared to larger tracts of land, were
emphasized by Commissioner Cannon. He raised the question of whether a broader zoning
approach might be more beneficial than initially granting permits for development on smaller
footprints, potentially leading to a variety of unforeseen uses arising on these smaller
parcels.

Commissioner Cannon acknowledged the importance of individual case-by-case
consideration and commended the ongoing discussions for their contribution to the City's
progress. He shared information gleaned from a conversation with an Ivory agent, revealing
that only 10 out of 51 lots remained unsold in a particular subdivision. This information
contrasted with previous claims and provided valuable insight into the current state of
development within the area.

Mr. Prestwich emphasized that any alterations made would have an impact on all properties,
not solely the one that had initiated the discussion. The importance of meticulous
consideration when revising zone text was stressed, as such changes applied to all
properties within the designated zoning category.

Continuing the discussion, the previously mentioned chicken Code analogy was referenced.
The deliberate process that led to implementation was highlighted. It was proposed that
they explore the use of broader metrics beyond mere acreage for school developments
within Riverton. To facilitate further exploration and the development of a more
encompassing approach, a proposal to postpone the decision was made. A question was
raised regarding the possibility of establishing a school within a residential zone, potentially
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               24
May 23, 2024


on a property as small as a quarter-acre. Clarification was provided that such a scenario,
while theoretically possible, would be contingent upon meeting existing acreage
requirements. Eliminating the acreage requirement could potentially open the door for
similar situations.

One suggestion involved delegating the issue to the City Council, while another advocated
for further research and analysis. Mention was also made of a specific facility that had
catalyzed the discussion. The reduction of the acreage requirement from three acres to one
was presented as an attempt to lessen the burden associated with the project. However,
concerns were raised regarding a potential conflict between current requirements and State
statutes. Inquiry was made regarding the primary motivation behind the discussion, with the
suggestion that avoiding litigation might be the main goal. Acknowledgment was offered
that while avoiding litigation is not inherently negative, it prompted further questions about
the rationale behind a Code that could potentially lead to legal challenges.

Explanation was provided that the Code likely pre-dated changes in the law, resulting in its
current misalignment with existing statutes. A suggestion was made to revise the Code
comprehensively to ensure alignment with the statute, rather than implementing piecemeal
adjustments. The possibility of completely eliminating the minimum lot size requirement was
suggested. Emphasis was placed on the importance of considering the impact of the
proposed changes. This included focusing on factors such as student enrollment and traffic
volume, rather than solely on lot size.

There was a consensus in favor of developing a Code based on impact rather than acreage.
It was understood that such an approach would likely be more compliant with statutory
requirements. A recommendation was made for the City Council to draft a Code reflecting
the discussed approach. This Code would eliminate the acreage requirement while
incorporating measures to prevent the construction of large facilities on small lots.
Acknowledgment of the recommendation was provided, with the understanding that the
proposal would undergo further examination by the Commission before being presented to
the City Council. Clarification was provided that a specific public application did not prompt
this initiative. Agreement was reached to move forward with the proposal, with the intention
of incorporating further refinements prior to its presentation to the Council.

A suggestion was made to investigate regulations mirroring those for preschools. The
regulations would potentially establish a daily limit on vehicle trips and explore a possible
link between vehicle trip volume and acreage size. Acknowledgment was provided that a
Code centered on mitigating impact would be preferable to one based solely on acreage or
student age.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Park moved that the Planning Commission CONTINUE PLZ-24-5002,
the Code Text Amendment to the next Planning Commission Meeting. The motion
