                                       City Council Meeting Agenda
                                               April 7, 2026



PRESENTER:             Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director


ITEM:


Ordinance No. 26-05 - Moore Rezone, Amending the General Plan to Medium-High Density Residential
and Rezoning to RM-6 on the Approximately 1.45 Acres Located at the NE Corner of 13200 S & Redwood
Road, Taylor Moore, TMoore Real Estate- Applicant. - Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director


On March 26, 2026, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this application. Minutes from
that meeting, and a previous hearing with the Commission, are included below. The Commission voted to
recommend approval of this rezone application, with the following recommended motion:


 “I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 26-05, the Moore Real Estate Rezone, for 1.45 acres located at
the northeast corner of 13200 S and Redwood Road, amending the General Plan to Medium-High Density
Residential and rezoning the property to RM-6, as shown in Exhibit “A”.”


SUMMARY:
This item is a public hearing for an application that originally was submitted as a request for a development
agreement, which had included General Plan and zoning changes as well as preliminary site plans,
architectural renderings, and other development conditions. Following a hearing with the Planning
Commission late last year, the applicant has made modifications to the application and the requested action
for the property. The application now proposes only a general plan approval and rezone, with the zoning
request at RM-6. The RM-6 zone allows a minimum project size of at least .5 acres where the property “has
frontage on a major street”, and Redwood Road falls under that definition.
The property in question is approximately 1.45 acres located at the northeast corner of 13200 South and
Redwood Road. The properties are currently zoned RR-22. The site was occupied for many years by a
floral shop which was legal non-conforming, meaning the property was never zoned commercial. The
adjacent property to the east is a mix of Commercial Neighborhood and Parks/Open Space, and is occupied
by a private school. The property to the north is zoned RR-22. The property across Redwood Road to the
west is zoned Commercial Neighborhood, and is currently vacant.
The applicant is proposing development on the property, with the proposed zoning at RM-6. This is a
reduction from the previous request at RM-14, and the RM-6 zone is also limited to detached single-family
units on lots of at least 5,000 square feet.


FISCAL IMPACT:         N/A
FUNDING SOURCE: N/A
