                            MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council

From:            Planning Department

Date:            February 18, 2020

Subject:         REZONE, PARKSIDE PH 3, 6.11 ACRES LOCATED AT APPROXIMATELY
                 4245 W. 12600 S., FROM RM-14-SD WITH ELDERLY HOUSING OVERLAY TO
                 RM-14-SD, REMOVING THE OVERLAY, KIRK YOUNG REPRESENTING
                 RIVERTON RANCH LLC, APPLICANT


On January 23, the Planning Commission, following a public hearing, voted to recommend
approval of this rezone. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning
Commission recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #20-06, rezoning 6.11 acres located near 4245 W
12600 from RM-14-SD with an Elderly Housing Overlay (EHOV) to RM-14-SD, removing the
overlay, as shown on Exhibit “A”.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone of an existing 6.12 acre parcel located south of 12600
South near 4245 West. The subject property is a triangle shaped parcel south of the Rocky
Mountain Power Corridor, just east of the Welby-Jacob Canal. The Property was rezoned to
RM-14 (see Ordinance No. 17-04) with an elderly housing overly as part of the application that
rezoned the property to the north as RM-14 SD. The north properties that were zoned RM-14-
SD became Parkside Phase 1 and Phase 2. This development is currently under construction
with single family detached and multi-family units.

Nearby zoning includes the RM-14-SD zoning to the north and east, the SLR Specific Plan to
the south, and R-4-SD to the west in the Cottages at Western Springs. The General Plan
designation is High Density Residential.

The applicant is requesting the Elderly Housing Overlay be removed from the subject parcel, but
is not requesting the same SD designation that exists on the other Parkside Properties. The
SD Designation included these three provisions:
            1. Land use and Density shall be as described on Exhibit B.


Report by: TJP
2/12/2020
                 2. Exterior materials on all units shall include a minimum of thirty-five (35) percent
                    brick or stone.
                 3. There shall be connectivity from open space in this project to the development to
                    the west.

The rezone request would result in a lower overall unity density, and would allow a different type
of unit. THE EHOV allows up to 20-units per acre, while the RM-14 allows 14-units per acre.
However, it could be argued that units per acre is not the only metric to evaluate this rezone
request as the EHOV could have unique characteristics such as people per unit, vehicle trips
generated, time of day driving and others.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site, published in the newspaper
and posted on the City’s web-page. A notice was also posted on the property.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of this rezone application.

Ordinances
The RM-14 zone (see RCC 18.55) allows both multifamily attached and single family detached
housing on small lots. For small lots the zone requires a minimum lot size of 5,000 sf with
minimum dimensions of width of 50-ft and minimum depth of 80-ft.

The minimum size for any unit (attached or detached) is 900 sf. Building exteriors are required
to be brick, tile, stone or fiber cement on 20% of any street side façade. Vinyl, aluminum or other
metal siding is prohibited.

The Elderly Housing Overlay (see RCC 18.120) does not allow single family detached or
multifamily housing as permitted or conditional uses unless it is categorized as Independent
Elderly Housing or Residential Health Care Facilities.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1. Application.
          2. Applicant’s area map and parcel description.
          3. Ordinance No 17-04 with map from 2017 rezone.




Report by: TJP
2/12/2020
                                                                                                         PLZ#                   Z
RIVE RTgIN                                                                                               Permit #
          UTAH                                                                                           Date
                                                 Application
                                                           Rezone


Applicant's NameR\VEPrad e*nk-t{ LLC t?          ,Jb
   eaaress GIVO     9. R otA@D RD €TL. /5O
   City         .-tltLLa       State 1-.<7- zi p  51r z-5
   Telep hone #   80Fsgq-1i77       Mobile #
   E-mail Address  y-tprQ zro dx<rurk#.cafu*o
Property Owner's Name (lf Different From Applicant)_
   Address
   City                                                                 State                         7 rp
   Telephone    #_Mobile                                                        #
   E-mail Address                                                                         Fax #
'1. Projectlnformation
   1. Property Address       ttZqq wl t26(2 a<
   2. Sidwell/Tax lD#(s) z7-3t -Zoo- o67
   3. TotalAcreage of the Site 6. I Z Az
   4. Current Zoning of the Proposed Site       P44- /4 E H
      Zoning of Adjacent Parcels: North FM -/4 S outh SLP-)P EastRl4-l4 West_B:lfD
   5. Requested zoning RA - /4
   6- Riverton City cenerat Ptan oesignation lL / b l+ D CA t tT'/ R, 9 t 12 ZJJ T/h-L
   7. Description of the Proposed Zoneluse for the Property k \-l \t I A)A 71+t
                                                                 "r
    ELPEPLY HoU 5 a)C DutALt\y


Please note that for your convenience, an application checklist ,:s encrosed. lncomplete
applications will not be accepled.

                                                                                                                Z7         1?
   Applicant's Signature                                                                              Date




   '"You will r*eive e let'€,r following the Planning commission and city Council meeting Noviding staus ol your aPlication*


       t 2830 South   1700 West . Riverton. UT 8.1065 . ( 801 ) 208-l I 13 . Fax ( 80 t ) 25-l-6.196 . \$rw.rivertoncity.com
     I



         l1
             ll
                   --')-.
                     ..
                                t
                                ,F-
                                          Ld,,;,-

                                           -r.o-&;::
                                            ,| .
                                               ll'

                                               :*&
                                                     -,
                                                          .




                                                              ffi   l
                                                                        lr
                                                                        J-




t
t                                     T                        I
                                                              I




     m+
     .-t          I --]

                                           I
                                           I




                            \
                                Y

             t
             I




    'I




         I


         \


             I
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2020                                                                        4


Commissioner James asked the applicant to be sensitive to the existing uses in the area.

Commissioner Hansen moved to approve Application #PLZ 20-2002 My Storage
Herriman, to be located at 5565 West 13400 South subject to the following conditions:

      1.     The applicant shall make a site plan application that meets City
             ordinance and is approved by the Planning Commission in a public
             hearing.

      2.     The “My Storage” site shall utilize shared access points and cross
             access with the other commercial properties at the southeast corner of
             13400 South and 5600 West.

      3.     Setbacks shall follow the standard setbacks listed in 18.70.040 and shall
             not utilize a zero-lot-line or reduced set back.

Commissioner James seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

3.    REZONE, KIRK YOUNG AND RIVERTON RANCH, LLC IS REQUESTING A
      REZONE OF ABOUT 6.11 ACRES LOCATED AT APPROXIMATELY 4245 SOUTH
      12600 SOUTH. THE CURRENT ZONING IS RM-14 WITH AN ELDERLY HOUSING
      OVERLAY, THE REQUESTED ZONING IS RM-14 (RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY
      14 UNITS PER ACRE) WITH NO OVERLAY.

Chair Russell opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the property is located on the west
side of Bangerter Highway, before reaching Mountain View Corridor. It was rezoned to
RM-14 with an elderly housing overlay including RM-14SD to the north. The developer has
returned with a preliminary site plan project and final site plans for Phases 1 and 2. Phase
1 is under construction while construction on Phase 2 has not yet begun although it has
been approved and the final plan is in place.

The power corridor, which is owned by Rocky Mountain Power in fee, contains high voltage
power lines that present obstacles to the elderly housing project. In 2016, hearings were
held on the property and final approval was granted in 2017 for the rezoning to RM-14 with
the RM-14 SD and the elderly housing overlay. The applicant was requesting a zone change
to have the overlay removed so that property can be zoned RM-14 SD, which allows multi-
family housing or detached small lots with single-family units.

Phase 1 is on the northernmost section of the property and has 65 small lots and 108
attached units on the east side of the project. Phase 2 includes 25 small lots and 140 units.
Phase 3 is listed but wasn’t reported on. The area is 6.12 acres in size. The applicant is
requesting RM-14 zoning. Staff requested RM-14 SD as it is applied to the north if the
elderly housing overlay is removed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2020                                                                         5



The applicant has plans for roads and dwellings units if the overlay removal is approved.
The exterior of all units will include a minimum of 35% brick or stone, which is higher than
what is included in an RM-14 zone. Staff recommended the adoption of the SD and including
the requirement for the unit exterior materials listed.

The Planning Commission is acting as a recommending body to the City Council who will
ultimately make a legislative decision on the proposed rezone. Mr. Prestwich encouraged
the Commissioners to identify their arguments and conclusions in any motion made. The
matter would be noticed again prior to the City Council hearing. Notice will be sent to those
within 1,000 feet of the property, posted on the City’s website, and published in the
newspaper. Mr. Prestwich reported that staff had not received any public feedback.

Commissioner James asked if the City has data on the need for elderly housing.
Mr. Prestwich responded that no study had been conducted and the demand has not been
investigated by staff. Mr. James asked if elderly housing fits the description of affordable
housing. An answer was given off mic that was inaudible.

Commissioner Lefgren asked if the overlay was originally driven by the developer or if it was
a City-initiated request. Mr. Prestwich indicated that he was not employed by the City at that
time and did not know the history. In researching the matter, he learned that this is an
ongoing discussion with the City Council, however, there was nothing in the meeting notes.
It was noted that the City Council adopted it with the SD and the elderly housing.

Commissioner Cannon asked if the original zoning was granted with the understanding that
the developer was dedicating a portion of his property to elderly housing. Mr. Prestwich was
not sure as he did not have the meeting minutes to review. Mr. Cannon asked about the
definition of elderly housing. Mr. Prestwich responded that in Riverton there is an overlay
zone that grants elderly housing different requirements. The end result is that it is a zone
on top of a zone. Mr. Prestwich read from the City webpage which states that “The Elderly
Housing Overlay is established to provide an area for elderly housing, including elderly
housing, nursing homes, convalescent centers, and assisted living centers adjacent to or in
proximity to commercial centers, mass transportation access, or community and civic
centers. The overlay zone is not intended for hospitals, clinics, health care centers, or like
uses. The Elderly Housing Overlay zone may be permitted in any commercial or RM zone.”

Mr. Prestwich explained that the permitted uses in this situation are for independent elderly
housing. It is defined as a home where people live with no nursing or any type of care, a
residential care facility, and a real estate or management office. It was clarified that the
developer is proposing independent elderly housing. Mr. Cannon was only aware of elderly
housing on commercial use property in the City on a main road. He was concerned that
they may not be doing justice to the residents who live in the area by enabling what is
proposed in the middle of a subdivision when the other uses are built along a corridor. A
comment was made off mic that was inaudible.

There were no public comments.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting
January 23, 2020                                                                         6



The applicant addressed the Commission but was off mic and inaudible.

Mr. Prestwich responded further to one of Commissioner Cannon’s questions and stated
that after referring to the zoning map, there was no other elderly housing overlay on any
other residential properties that could be identified. They are all commercial and located
along major roads.

There were no further public comments. Chair Russell closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Rushton moved to recommend APPROVAL of Application PLZ-19-
4012 rezoning properties located near 4245 West 12600 South as shown on the
attached Proposed Zoning Map from RM-14-SD with an Elderly Housing Overlay
(EHOV) to RM-14-SD. Commissioner James seconded the motion. The motion
passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.     REZONE, RD DEVELOPMENT IS REQUESTING A REZONE OF ABOUT 12.05
       ACRES LOCATED AT APPROXIMATELY 11845 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD. THE
       CURRENT ZONING IS C-PO, C-N, AND RR-22, THE REQUESTED ZONING IS
       RM-6 WITH A SPECIFIC DESIGNATION.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the request is from the RD
Development Group located on Redwood Road and is a uniquely shaped property consisting
of RR-22, R-3, C-PO, and C-N zoning. The staff report specified the size as 12.05 acres,
but after an ALTA Survey, the acreage was determined to be 12.8 acres. Even with this
change in acreage, the request follows the boundary lines and is consistent with the zoning
requirements. The property was identified on a map displayed.

The applicant is requesting RM-6-SD zoning on the property. A section of the property is
zoned Estate Density Residential, which allows one-half acre or larger lots. The property
also consists of a business park or professional office that corresponds with a C-G, C-N, or
C-PO commercial zoning. There is a section of R-4 zoning, with 10,000 square-foot lots and
another section listed as R-3 zoning.

The staff report was amended to specify that if recommended for approval, there would also
need to be a recommendation for a change to the General Plan. Last summer and fall,
Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge did a lot of work on the project, but the
City Council requested it be put on hold and readdressed in the spring. The previous
General Plan was being presented and nothing had been formally adopted.

Because this is SD and not a blanket zone, the developer utilized the SD to include different
types of uses or densities inside the overall project. In one section are the attached single-
family homes, or townhomes. Another section contains 4,500 square-foot detached homes
including private lots and driveways, private garages, and they do not share a common wall.
Along the north edge, 6,000 square-foot detached homes are proposed. On the south end
that borders the residential properties of R-4 and R-3, there are 8,000 square-foot detached
