5.309.35.010 Purpose.
To protect the emergency services of the city from misuses. This chapter governs
intrusion and physical duress alarm systems, requires permits and registration,
establishes fees, provides for the allocation of revenues and deficits, provides for
revocation of the permit, provides for punishment of violations and establishes and
system of administration. [Code 1997 § 9-4-71.]

5.309.35.020 Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
“Alarm business” means the business of any individual, partnership, corporation or other
entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, monitoring, repairing, altering, replacing,
removing, moving, installing, planning the installation, or assisting in planning the
installation of any alarm system or causing any of the above to occur, whether in or on
any building, structure, facility or premises.

“Alarm system” means any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged
to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other activity requiring urgent attention and
to which peace officers are expected to respond.
“Alarm user” means the person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization thereof of any kind in control of a building, structure or facility wherein an
alarm system is maintained.

“Automatic dialing device” means a device which is interconnected to a telephone line
and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number and transmit by voice
message or code signal any emergency message indicating a need for emergency
response.
Burglar Alarm Certification Act (Section 13-18-1 et seq., Utah Code Annotated 1953).
This chapter is promulgated pursuant to Section 13-18-18(4), Utah Code Annotated
1953, to require users of alarm systems and alarm companies to meet reasonable
equipment and performance standards concerning false alarms.

“Coordinator” means the individual designated by the police chief to issue permits and
enforce the provisions of this chapter.

“False alarm” means an alarm signal eliciting a response by peace officers when a
situation requiring a response by them or other emergency response unit in fact does
not exist. It includes an alarm signal caused by conditions of nature which are normal
for that area and subject to control by the alarm business operator or alarm user. “False
alarm” does not include an alarm signal caused by extraordinarily violent conditions of
nature not reasonably subject to control.
“Interconnect” means to connect an alarm system, including an automatic dialing
device, to a telephone line, either directly or through a mechanical device that utilizes a
telephone, for the purpose of using the telephone line to transmit a message upon the
activation of the alarm system.

“Intrusion alarm system” means an alarm system signaling an entry or attempted entry
into the area protected by the system.

“Local alarm” means any noise-making alarm device.

“Physical duress system” means an alarm system signaling a robbery or other physical
endangerment.

“Police chief” means the chief of the Riverton police department, or his designated
representative.

“Primary trunk line” means a telephone line serving the VECC system or sheriff dispatch
that is designated to receive emergency calls.

“VECC and dispatch” are the governmental facilities used to receive emergency and
general information from the public to be dispatched to the Riverton pPolice
Ddepartment. [Ord. 23-14 § 2; amended during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 9-4-
72.]

5.309.35.030 Registration required to operate an intrusion or physical duress
alarm system business.
(1) It is unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation or association to own, manage,
conduct or carry on the business of selling, leasing, installing, servicing, maintaining,
repairing, replacing, moving or removing, or causing to be sold, leased, installed,
serviced, maintained, repaired, replaced, moved or removed, in or on any building,
residence or other property within the city any device known as an intrusion or physical
duress alarm system, or automatic dialing device connected to an answering service,
unless there exists a valid security certificate therefor, granted and subsisting in
compliance with the provisions of the Burglar Alarm Certification Act and the name,
address and certificate number or I.D. card number registered with the Riverton police
department as provided in this chapter.
(2) The fee for an intrusion or physical duress alarm system business license shall be
that prescribed in a fee schedule, adopted annually by the Riverton City Council.
Chapter 5.05 RCC. [Ord. 23-14 § 2. Code 1997 § 9-4-73.]

5.309.35.040 Alarm user Individual employee’s registration required.
It is unlawful for anyAny alarm user person employed by a person having a valid
security certificate under Section 13-18-4, Utah Code Annotated 1953, shall register
histheir name, address and other identifying information with the Riverton Police
Department on forms issued by the department before to engaginge directly in the
selling, leasing, installing, servicing, maintaining, repairing, moving or removing any
alarm system in or on any building or other property within the city any intrusion or
physical duress alarm system unless such person shall first register his name, address
and I.D. card number with the Riverton police department. There shall be no fee for
registration under this section. Any alarm business or employeeuser who successfully
completes the registration process shall receive an alarm user permit on forms issued
by the Riverton Ppolice dDepartment. [Ord. 23-14 § 2. Code 1997 § 9-4-74.]

5.309.35.050 Registration procedure for alarm businesses.
Every alarm business and its employees shall annually register their name, address
business name and other identifying information with the Riverton pPolice Ddepartment
on forms issued by the department. There shall be no fee for registration under this
section. Any alarm business or employee who successfully completes the registration
process shall receive an alarm user permit on forms issued by the Riverton Ppolice
Ddepartment. and security certificate number or I.D. card number with the Riverton
police department. [Ord. 23-14 § 2. Code 1997 § 9-4-75.]

5.309.35.060 Alarm user permits to be available for inspection.
(1) Every alarm user shall have on their premises, or in their possession, an alarm user
permit issued by the Riverton pPolice Ddepartment and make the same available for
inspection by the Riverton Police Department at such times as the alarm user’s
associated business is open to the public. at no charge.
(2) It is unlawful for an alarm business to report, or cause to be reported, to the Riverton
Ppolice Ddepartment or other emergency service agency the activation of any alarm
system on any premises for which the alarm user has not obtained an alarm user
permit. [Ord. 23-14 § 2. Code 1997 § 9-4-76.]

5.309.35.070 Alarm user permit required before operation of alarm. information.
(1) An alarm user permit shall be issued by the information card will be completed and
submitted to the Riverton Ppolice Ddepartment’s alarm coordinator by the user of any
alarm system prior to the continuous operation of the system. This section shall not be
applied to prohibit momentary operation related to testing or maintenance of an alarm
system.
(2) This The alarm user permit card shall set forth the full name, address and telephone
number of both the owner or lessee on whose premises the system will be installed,
operated, connected or maintained, and the name of the person or licensed alarm
system business installing, maintaining or servicing the system, as well as the type of
system to be installed, operated or maintained. The card shall further contain the
names, addresses and telephone numbers of three individuals who may be contacted
by peace officers responding to an alarm. The persons listed shall have authority to act
for the alarm user in granting peace officers access to any portion of the premises
concerned and shall be knowledgeable in the basic operation of the alarm system. The
alarm user permit alarm input card shall contain such additional information as the
Riverton pPolice Ddepartment shall reasonably deem necessary to properly identify and
locate the user, the alarm business installing, servicing or maintaining the alarm system,
and the persons to be contacted in the event of the filing of an alarm report.

(3) A service fee may be assessed upon a user when the peace officers responding to
an alarm are unable to contact any of the listed parties due to outdated or inaccurate
information provided by the user; or if none of the listed parties are available; or if the
listed parties fail to respond to the scene within 30 minutes of notice. The service fee
shall be determined byset by a fee schedule, adopted annually by the Riverton City
Counciltreating the violation as if it were a false alarm, as provided in
RCC 5.309.35.110, and may be considered as a second instance for the computing of
fees should the cause of the alarm be false.
(4) In addition to submitting the alarm information card, users of audible outside local
alarm systems shall post near the alarm, and at a position readable from ground level, a
code number furnished by the alarm coordinator to allow reference to the alarm
information card required by this section. All such audible or visual alarm devices shall
be equipped with an automatic cutoff device which will terminate the audible or visual
alarm within 30 minutes. [Ord. 23-14 § 2. Code 1997 § 9-4-77.]

5.309.35.080 Alarm business call records Riverton police department call records.
Alarm businesses who request the Riverton Ppolice Ddepartment’s response to alarm
signals shall maintain a record of all such calls, stating the time, date, location of the
alarm and the name, address and phone number of the alarm user. The records shall
indicate the cause of the alarm, if known. This record shall be current and shall be made
available to the police chief or his designated representative at any time during normal
business hours. [Ord. 23-14 § 2. Code 1997 § 9-4-78.]

5.309.35.090 User instructions.
(1) Every alarm business selling, leasing or furnishing to any user an alarm system
which is installed on premises located in the area subject to this chapter shall furnish
the alarm user with written instructions that provide information to enable the user to
operate the alarm system properly.

(2) Every alarm business selling, leasing or furnishing to any user an alarm system
which is installed on premises located in the area subject to this chapter shall notify in
writing the alarm user of this chapter’s alarm user permit requirement within five
business days of sale or installation. The notice shall be addressed to the alarm user,
or, if the user is a business entity, to its manager or designated person in charge, and
shall contain the user’s telephone number (if known) and the street location of the
premises on which the alarm system is installed. A copy of such notice shall be mailed
or delivered to the Riverton Police Department, Attention: Alarm Systems Coordinator,
12810 South Redwood Road, Riverton, UT 84065, at the same time the original notice
is sent. [Ord. 23-14 § 2. Code 1997 § 9-4-79.]

5.309.35.100 City liability limitations.
The city shall not be liable for any defects in operation of burglar or robbery alarm
systems, for any failure or neglect to respond appropriately upon the receipt of an alarm
nor for the failure or neglect of any persons registered or issued a permit pursuant to
this chapter in connection with the installation, operation or maintenance of the
equipment necessary to or incident to the operation of such systems. In the event the
city finds it necessary to order the system disconnected, the city shall incur no liability
for such action. [Amended during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 9-4-80.]

5.309.35.110 False alarms.
(1) Any alarm user which has seven or more false alarms within a any twelve
consecutive month period calendar year shall be subject to revocation, assessments
and/or criminal penalties described in RCC 5.309.35.140. Revocation of a user permit
shall be in accordance with the license revocation provisions specified in this code, as
amended.
(2) A service fee is imposed for false alarms on a physical duress or intrusion alarm
system to which peace officers respond. The fee is assessed on the user of the alarm
system after three false alarms have occurred in any twelve consecutive month period.
in any calendar-month period or after seven false alarms in any calendar year,
whichever comes first. The amount of the fee is established under a fee schedule
adopted annually by the Riverton City Council. $15.00 for each responding unit.

(3) The maximum service fee that may be charged under this section based on the
typical response by business type is as follows:

(a) Residential, three units;

(b) Small business, four units;

(c) Large commercial business and financial institution, six units.
(4) All service fees assessed under this chapter are due and payable on the date written
notice of any fee due is issued by the city treasurer. If any service fee is not paid within
30 days of the due date, a penalty of $10.00 shall be added to each $15.00 service fee
in an amount established under a fee schedule adopted annually by the Riverton City
Council. so unpaid. If any service fee is not paid within 60 days of the due date, an
additional penalty of $10.00 shall be added to each $15.00 service fee so unpaid, for a
total penalty of $20.00. If any service fee is not paid within 90 days of the due date, an
additional penalty of $10.00 shall be added to each $15.00 service fee so unpaid, for a
total penalty of $30.00. If any service fee is not paid within 120 days of the due date
together with all applicable penalties, tThe city may use such lawful means as are
available to collect such fee, including all penalties, costs and attorney fees. [Amended
during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 9-4-81.]

5.309.35.120 Interagency communications.
A central station or other alarm dispatch center must provide the Riverton pPolice
Ddepartment’s dispatch a toll-free telephone number for the conducting of business and
contacting the central station dispatchers at the time of filing the alarm report. [Ord. 23-
14 § 2. Code 1997 § 9-4-82.]

5.309.35.130 Deliberate false alarms.
No person shall cause to be transmitted any intrusion or physical duress alarm knowing
the same to be false or without basis in fact. A violation of this section is a class B
misdemeanor. Central stations shall not request law enforcement officers to respond to
alarm scenes when monitoring equipment indicates an alarm system malfunction signal.
[Code 1997 § 9-4-83.]

5.309.35.140 Penalties.
(1) Unless otherwise stated in this title, aAny person who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an infraction class B misdemeanor.
(2) All service fees assessed under this chapter are due and payable within 30 days
after written notice of any fee due is issued by the auditor. A penalty of 10 percent of the
fee due shall be assessed upon any person who fails to pay the fee within 30 days. The
penalty shall be assessed for each 30-day period, or fraction thereof, that the fee
remains unpaid beyond the original payment period.

(3) Failure to timely pay any service fees imposed in this chapter may result in the
coordinator initiating action to revoke the business license of the alarm business.
[Amended during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 9-4-84.]
