                                                       Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                           Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                      Riverton City
                                                               Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415


                                 RIVERTON CITY
                             MASTER AGREEMENT UT-11

THIS MASTER AGREEMENT, is made by and between the Utah Department of
Transportation, (“UDOT”), and Riverton City, a Municipal Corporation of the State of Utah,
(“City”). Each as party, (“Party”) and together as parties, (“Parties”).

                                          RECITALS

WHEREAS, UDOT has awarded a design-build contractor for the highway project identified as
Project Number S-0154(250)4, Bangerter Highway South Interchanges in Salt Lake County,
Utah, (“Project”); and

WHEREAS, the design-build contractor will administer construction of the Project (“Design-
Builder”); and

WHEREAS, UDOT has identified City facilities (“Facility or Facilities”) within the limits of the
Project which may necessitate the relocation, protection, or adjustment of the Facilities, (“Third-
Party Work”); and

WHEREAS, the City desires for UDOT to perform the Third-Party Work on the City’s facilities
necessitated by the Project; and

WHEREAS, the City will perform the necessary design and inspection to accommodate the
Project; and

WHEREAS, for the purpose of expediting any required Third-Party Work and reimbursement,
the Parties are entering into this Master Agreement with the understanding that future
Supplemental Agreements to this Agreement will be entered into covering the specific Third-
Party Work to be accomplished by UDOT for each specific impact location.

THIS AGREEMENT is made to set out the terms and conditions for the Third-Party Work that
shall be performed.




 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                                 Page 1 of 14
                                                      Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                          Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                     Riverton City
                                                              Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415



                                        AGREEMENT

NOW THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:

1.      PROJECT RESPONSIBLE FOR COST

        UDOT is responsible for 100% of the cost of the Third-Party Work of City’s Facilities for
        those costs that comply with Utah Administrative Code R930-8 and are not located
        within the interstate system. Utah Code § 72-6-116(3)(a)(ii).


2.      CONTACT INFORMATION

        UDOT’s Project Representative is John Bangle, Utility and Railroad Leader, telephone
        number (801) 867-6764, and e-mail jbangle@utah.gov .

        UDOT’s Resident Engineer is Clinton Martin, telephone number (801) 200-4537, and
        e-mail clintonmartin@utah.gov, or their designated representative, as assigned.


        UDOT’s Field Representative contact person will be identified in subsequent
        Supplemental Agreements.

        City’s contact person is Cary Necaise, telephone number (801) 717-5469, and e-mail
        cnecaise@rivertonutah.gov .

        After awarding the Project, UDOT will provide the City with the Design-Builder contact
        information, (“Design-Builder Project Representative”).


3.      AUTHORIZATION FOR DESIGN WORK

        In order to facilitate coordination and obtain technical information about the City’s
        Facilities and requirements for inclusion in this Agreement and the Request for
        Proposals, UDOT gave the City authorization for preliminary design engineering on July
        25, 2022.


4.      SUBSURFACE UTILITY ENGINEERING

        UDOT has performed Subsurface Utility Engineering (SUE) within the limits of the
        Project. Additional SUE work to determine the precise location of underground facilities
        at specific, critical locations on the Project will be reviewed with the City.

5.      PROJECT COORDINATION


 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                                Page 2 of 14
                                                       Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                           Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                      Riverton City
                                                               Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

        The City requested that UDOT include items of Third-Party Work for relocating and
        adjusting City Facilities in the Project.

        During the development of the Project design, the City and UDOT, along with its
        Design-Builder, shall consult as necessary in an effort to determine if conflicts with the
        City’s Facilities can be avoided. If Third-Party Work for the City’s Facilities is required
        by the Project, UDOT will be responsible to identify the conflicts and construct the Third-
        Party Work of the City’s Facilities. The City will perform the necessary design prior to
        the start of Third-Party Work. UDOT’s Project Representative will be responsible for
        coordinating with other Third-Parties as it relates to City’s Facilities.

6.      CITY REQUIREMENTS

        UDOT and the City will comply with the following requirements:

        a.      A copy of the City’s standards dated September 29, 2021 can be found at
                https://cms8.revize.com/revize/rivertonut/departments/public-
                works/engineering/documents/standard-specifications-and-plans.pdf
                and are incorporated by reference.
                         1.      Relocated Ductile Iron culinary waterline will be cement lined as
                                 noted on design plans.
        b.      The City will require that all utilities be relocated or reconstructed through the
                corridor in a manner that does not diminish the performance or function of each
                utility affected by the project.

        c.      UDOT will supply as-constructed plans in PDF and CAD files upon completion
                of any required Third-Party Work.

        d.      UDOT shall comply with the following:
                  i. Cannot take the culinary waterline out of service during the months of
                     peak usage. (May through September.)
                 ii. The culinary waterline must remain in service at all times during
                     construction with the exception of short period shut down. These
                     shutdowns need to be preapproved, in writing, and coordinated through
                     the City.
                iii. The secondary water line shall remain in service from March 15th
                     through October 15th.

7.      CITY AND UDOT TO DESIGN AND UDOT TO CONSTRUCT CITY’STHIRD-PARTY
        WORK

        UDOT will schedule and meet with the City to review the design and scheduling of the
        Third-Party Work for the City’s Facilities at specific locations on the Project to ensure
        maximum lead time for advance order of materials and workforce scheduling.

        a.      City will design the 18-inch culinary waterline and the 16-inch pressurized
                irrigation line, Third-Party Work that are currently located in 13400 South in
                accordance with City’s standards regularly followed by the City in its own work

 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                                 Page 3 of 14
                                                        Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                            Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                       Riverton City
                                                                Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

                and not considered a betterment. In the event of a conflict between UDOT and
                City standards, the City standard will be applied unless otherwise approved.
                The City standards that in effect at the time of the signing of this Agreement
                shall be the standards required for this Project.

        b.      UDOT will secure permits required for Third-Party Work of City’s Facilities for
                any work outside of UDOT right-of-way.

        c.      City will waive fee for the required land disturbance and encroachment permits.

        d.      UDOT will notify the City at least 2 business days in advance of beginning any
                Third-Party Work covered by any Supplemental Agreements hereto, to allow
                the City time to schedule an inspector to be present during the Third-Party Work.
                Subsequent notification of when and where Third-Party Work will be performed
                will be given on a day-to-day basis.

        e.      UDOT will design the relocation of all other culinary waterline and secondary
                waterline that are not specifically stated in Paragraph 7.a, above.

        f.      The City will review and provide comments on design plans within 2 weeks from
                the time UDOT delivers the design plans to the City.


8.      RIGHT-OF-WAY

        The City shall cooperate with UDOT to identify conflicts between UDOT’s proposed
        highway work and the Third-Party’s operation of its utility facilities. The Third-Party shall
        submit to UDOT all conveyances, vesting documents, or other evidence of title to real
        property related to the potential relocation of utility facilities as early as possible.

        Any easements or replacement right-of-way required in conjunction with the Third-Party
        Work of City’s Facilities will be acquired by UDOT in accordance with the requirements
        of Utah Administrative Code R930-8.

        Any easements or replacement right-of-way to be transferred to the City by Quit Claim
        shall be signed by the City before recording transfer.

9.      BETTERMENT WORK

        UDOT may agree to include betterment work in the Project, providing the difference in
        costs between the required Third-Party Work and the desired betterment work shall be
        at the sole cost of the City and the betterment work can be accommodated without
        delaying UDOT’s Project. The betterment work will be addressed by a separate local
        government betterment agreement between UDOT and the City.

        The City has requested betterment work be added to the Project as described in
        attached Exhibit “B”.




 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                                   Page 4 of 14
                                                       Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                           Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                      Riverton City
                                                               Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

        Any betterment work, not previously requested, will be negotiated directly with the
        Design-Builder. However, UDOT has the sole discretion to determine whether the
        betterment work will be included in the Project.

10.     SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS

        UDOT and the City shall enter into Supplemental Agreements to cover Third-Party
        Work at specific Project locations. CITY will provide design plans and UDOT will provide
        Third-Party Work schedules for review prior to start of the Third-Party Work. A copy of
        the format of the proposed Supplemental Agreement is marked Exhibit “A” that is
        incorporated by reference.

        The City will review and provide comments on the Supplemental Agreements within 2
        weeks from the time UDOT delivers the agreement to the City. 2-week timeframe will
        restart with each Supplemental Agreement revision.

        In the event there are changes in the scope of the Third-Party Work, extra Third-Party
        Work, or changes in the planned Third-Party Work covered by a Supplemental
        Agreement, a modification to the Supplemental Agreement approved in writing by the
        Parties is required prior to the start of Third-Party Work on the changes or additions.

11.     CITY TO NOTIFY UDOT

        City’s personnel shall notify UDOT’s Field Representative upon arriving and leaving the
        Project site for verification of inspecting Third-Party Work. City’s personnel will comply
        with all applicable OSHA and Project safety requirements while within the Project limits.

12.     INSPECTION

        The City shall provide engineering support by the City Engineer or appropriate
        representative for design review, schedule coordination, or to correct or clarify issues
        during Third-Party Work, and to perform the necessary inspection on the City’s
        Facilities installed by UDOT.

        a.      The City Engineer and/or inspector shall work with and through UDOT’s Field
                Representative and shall give no orders directly to UDOT’s Design-Builder
                unless authorized in writing to do so. UDOT will accomplish the Third-Party
                Work covered herein on City’s Facilities in accordance with the plans and
                specifications provided and/or approved by the City, including changes or
                additions to the plans and specifications, which are approved by the Parties
                hereto.
        b.      The City shall immediately notify UDOT’s Field Representative of any
                deficiencies in the Third-Party Work on the City’s Facilities. The City shall follow
                up with written detail to UDOT’s Project Representative of its findings within 24-
                hours of making its initial notification.
        c.      UDOT will respond to City’s concerns within 24-hours of written notification.
        d.      The City, through its inspection of the Third-Party Work, will provide UDOT’s
                Field Representative with information covering any problems or concerns the

 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                                  Page 5 of 14
                                                      Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                          Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                     Riverton City
                                                              Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

                City may have with acceptance of the facilities upon completion of the Third-
                Party Work.
        e.      Any periodic plan and specification review or construction inspection performed
                by UDOT arising out of the performance of the Third-Party Work does not
                relieve the City of its duty in the performance of the Third-Party Work or to
                ensure compliance with acceptable standards.
        f.      UDOT and Design Builder will hold at a minimum, bi-weekly (once every 14
                Calendar Days, unless otherwise approved in writing) coordination meetings
                with City representative.

13.     DAILY RECORDKEEPING

        UDOT and the City will each keep daily records of onsite activities. The City’s daily records
        will be completed on a form that has been preapproved by UDOT’s Contracts, Compliance
        and Certification Manager. The daily records shall be signed by UDOT’s Field
        Representative or their authorized representatives and by the City or its authorized
        representatives. Copies of the daily records shall be retained by the Parties to this
        Agreement.

14.     REIMBURSEMENT

        UDOT will not reimburse the City for costs incurred by City personnel for design review,
        observation, inspection, and operation of valves performed as part of their regularly
        assigned duties. Should it become necessary for the City to procure outside
        professional services to perform design review, observation, or inspection to
        accommodate the Third-Party Work and Project schedule, the City shall notify UDOT.
        Upon concurrence by UDOT, a Supplemental Agreement for the cost of the services
        will be executed at which time the City may procure outside services through
        appropriate procurement. The City shall determine any need for outside professional
        services prior to providing estimates and include these costs in the estimates. UDOT
        will not reimburse for any testing, as UDOT will perform the required testing.

15.     SUBMITTAL OF ITEMIZED BILLS

        The City shall submit itemized bills covering the actual costs incurred for outside
        services to perform design review, oversight, and inspection work covered by
        Supplemental Agreements to:

                             UDOT Contracts and Compliance Specialist
                             Constructionpayments@utah.gov
                             or Mail hard copy to
                             4501 South 2700 West
                             Construction Office, Box 148220
                             Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-8220

        Itemized bills shall bear the Project and Supplemental Agreement numbers, supporting
        sheets, and a complete billing statement of all actual costs incurred, following the order
        of the items in the detailed estimates contained in the Supplemental Agreement and be

 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                                 Page 6 of 14
                                                      Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                          Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                     Riverton City
                                                              Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

        submitted to UDOT within 60 days following completion of outside services by the City
        on the Project. Otherwise, previous payments to the City may be considered final,
        except as agreed to between the Parties in advance.

        UDOT will reimburse the City within 60 days after receipt of the billings, but only for
        items complying fully with the provisions of Utah Administrative Code R930-8. Failure
        on the part of the City to submit final billings within 6 months of the completion of
        outside services will result in UDOT’s disallowance of that portion of outside services
        performed by the City.

16.     SALVAGED MATERIALS

        All materials from City’s existing Facilities which are recovered by UDOT while
        performing the Third-Party Work and not reused on this Project shall become the
        property of the Design-Builder unless otherwise agreed to in advance by the Parties
        hereto.

17.     RIGHT TO AUDIT

        UDOT and the Federal Highway Administration shall have the right to audit all cost
        records and accounts of the City pertaining to this Project in accordance with the
        auditing procedure of the Federal Highway Administration and 23 C.F.R. § 645, subpart
        A. Should this audit disclose that the City has been underpaid, the City will be
        reimbursed by UDOT within 60 days upon submission of additional billing to cover the
        underpayment. Should this audit disclose that the City has been overpaid, the City will
        reimburse UDOT within 60 days of notification of audit findings in the amount of the
        overpayment. For purpose of audit the City is required to keep and maintain its records
        of outsides services covered herein for a minimum of 3 years after final payment is
        received by the City from UDOT.

18.     ACCEPTANCE AND MAINTENANCE

        UDOT will provide notification to the City for acceptance of the Third-Party Work upon
        completion of the final inspection. City will have 60 days to respond in writing to UDOT
        with any additional comments in regards to the Third-Party Work. After 60 days the City
        accepts the Third-Party Work. Upon completion of the Third-Party Work of City
        Facilities by UDOT, the City will accept, own, and maintain its own Facilities. The City
        shall be the sole owner of the Facilities upon completion of the Project unless otherwise
        agreed to by the Parties. To the extent it may lawfully do so, City further agrees to
        relieve UDOT from any responsibility or liability that may result from its new Facilities
        or the operation thereof.

19.     WARRANTY OF THIRD-PARTY WORK

        UDOT through its Design-Builder will provide a 1-year warranty covering the Third-
        Party Work completed on the District’s Facilities, as stated in UDOT’s Design-Build
        contract.


 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                                Page 7 of 14
                                                        Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                            Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                       Riverton City
                                                                Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

20.     ACCESS

        Access for maintenance and servicing of City’s Facilities located on the right-of-way of
        the Project will be allowed only by permit issued by UDOT to the City, and that the City
        will obtain the permit and abide by conditions thereof for policing and other controls in
        conformance with Utah Administrative Code R930-7. If Access during the Project is
        needed, the City shall coordinate access with UDOT.

21.     INDEMNIFICATION

        UDOT and the City are both governmental entities subject to the Governmental
        Immunity Act. Each Party agrees to indemnify, defend, and save harmless the other
        from and against all claims, suits and costs, including attorneys’ fees for injury or
        damage of any kind, arising out of its negligent acts, errors or omissions of its officers,
        agents, contractors or employees in the performance of this Agreement, and from and
        against all claims, suits, and costs, including attorneys’ fees for injury or damage of any
        kind. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to create additional rights to third parties or
        to waive any of the provisions of the Governmental Immunity Act. The obligation to
        indemnify is limited to the dollar amounts set forth in the Governmental Immunity Act,
        provided the Act applies to the action or omission giving rise to the protections in this
        paragraph. The indemnification in this paragraph shall survive the expiration or
        termination of this Agreement.

22.     MISCELLANEOUS

        a.      Each Party agrees to undertake and perform all further acts that are reasonably
                necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this Agreement at the request
                of the other Party.

        b.      This Agreement in no way creates any type of agency relationship, joint venture,
                or partnership between UDOT and City.

        c.      The failure of either Party to insist upon strict compliance of any of the terms
                and conditions, or failure or delay by either Party to exercise any rights or
                remedies provided in this Agreement, or by law, will not release either Party
                from any obligations arising under this Agreement.

        d.      This Agreement shall be deemed to be made under and shall be governed by
                the laws of the State of Utah in all respects. Each person signing this Agreement
                warrants that the person has full legal capacity, power and authority to execute
                this Agreement for and on behalf of the respective Party and to bind such Party.
                This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which
                shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures were made upon
                the same instrument. This Agreement may be delivered by facsimile or
                electronic mail.

        e.      If any provision or part of a provision of this agreement is held invalid, illegal or
                unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall

 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                                   Page 8 of 14
                                                           Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                               Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                          Riverton City
                                                                   Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

                not affect any other provision. Each provision shall be deemed to be enforceable
                to the fullest extent under applicable law.

        f.      This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which
                shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures were made upon
                the same instrument. This Agreement may be delivered by facsimile or
                electronic mail.

        g.      This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the
                Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and shall supersede all offers,
                negotiations and other agreements with respect thereto. Any amendment to
                this Agreement must be in writing and executed by authorized representatives
                of each Party.

        h.      The date of this agreement is the date this agreement is signed by the last Party.

*************************************************************************************************************




 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                                        Page 9 of 14
                                              Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                  Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                             Riverton City
                                                      Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents to be executed by
their duly authorized officers.



                                            Riverton City
 ATTEST:




 Title:                                     Title:


 Date:                                      Date:


 (IMPRESS SEAL)
          ...........................................................


 Recommended For Approval:                  Utah Department of Transportation



 Title: Utility and Railroad Leader         Title: Project Director


 Date:                                       Date:




                                            Comptroller Office



                                            Title:   Contract Administrator


                                            Date:




 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                     Page 10 of 14
                                                        Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                            Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                       Riverton City
                                                                Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

                                            EXHIBIT A

                               RIVERTON CITY
                       SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT NO. ___
                  Supplement to UDOT Finance No. __________

THIS SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT is made by and between the Utah Department of
Transportation, (“UDOT”), and Riverton City, a Municipal Corporation of the State of Utah,
(“City”). Each as party, (“Party”) and together as parties, (“Parties”).

The Parties hereto entered into a Master Agreement (MA) dated ___________________, UDOT
Finance No. __________________. All the terms of the MA remain in full force and effect unless
otherwise specified herein.

The Parties agree as follows:

1.      UDOT will perform the following described Third-Party Work in accordance with the terms
        and conditions of the MA:
              a.      Plan sheets depicting the Third-Party Work are shown in Exhibit “A” that is
              incorporated by reference and are described as:
              b.      The City special provisions described in Paragraph 6 of the MA – City
              Requirements, are modified as follows:
              c.      Third-Party Work will be completed between x and x. A schedule for the
              Third-Party Work is shown in Exhibit “B” that is incorporated by reference.

                d.       City As-built survey responsibility: If the Design-Builder is responsible to
                collect the City As-built on behalf of the City it is the City’s responsibility to notify
                the Design-Builder 48 hours in advance of beginning the Third-Party Work in order
                for the Design-Builder’s surveyor to be present. Should the proper notification and
                coordination not occur and if the Third-Party Work is performed without the Design-
                Builder’s surveyor present to collect the As-built, UDOT may hire a Subsurface
                Utility Engineering (SUE) consultant to locate the facilities at the City’s expense.

                e.     Total estimated cost of City Betterment Work is shown in Exhibit “C” that is
                incorporated by reference.



                 TOTAL ESTIMATED COST OF CITY BETTERMENT WORK                                     $0.00
     TOTAL ESTIMATED COST OF UDOT-PERFORMED THIRD-PARTY WORK                                      $0.00
           COMBINED TOTAL ESTIMATED COST OF THIRD-PARTY WORK                                      $0.00




 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                                   Page 11 of 14
                                                       Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                           Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                      Riverton City
                                                               Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

        2.      UDOT will notify the City’s contact person, Cary Necaise, telephone number (801)
        717-5469, and e-mail cnecasie@rivertoncity.gov at least 2 business days in advance of
        beginning and completing its portion of the Third-Party Work covered herein.
        3.      City will notify UDOT’s Resident Engineer, Clinton Martin, telephone number (801)
        200-4537, and e-mail clintonmartin@utah.gov , or their designated representative, as
        assigned at least 2 business days in advance of beginning and completing its portion of
        the Third-Party Work covered herein.
        4.      The date of this Agreement is the date this Agreement is signed by the last Party.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused these presents to be executed by their
duly authorized officers.


                                              Riverton City




                                              Title:

                                              Date:

            ...........................................................


Recommended For Approval:                     Utah Department of Transportation



Title: Utility and Railroad Leader            Title: Project Director

                                               Date:
Date:




                                              Comptroller's Office



                                              Title: Contract Administrator
                                              Date:




 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                              Page 12 of 14
                                                    Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                                        Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                                   Riverton City
                                                            Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

                                 EXHIBIT B
                      LANDSCAPE AESTHETICS BETTERMENT


City has requested the following Betterment Work be included with the Project Utility Work:

UDOT shall include the following Aesthetics and Landscaping Betterment Work items into
the Project Utility Work. UDOT shall supplement up to $100,000.00 for each interchange (2700
West interchange will be split 50/50 between Riverton City and Bluffdale City) towards
Aesthetics and Landscaping Betterment Work. UDOT and City shall enter into supplemental
agreements to
cover Aesthetics and Landscaping Betterment Work described below. City shall be
responsible for paying the actual costs greater than $100,000.00 for each interchange (2700
West interchange will be split 50/50 between Riverton City and Bluffdale City) associated with
the Aesthetics and Landscaping Betterment Work items, based on the items UDOT actually
installs.

                 Description of Aesthetics and Landscaping Betterment Work:

 Element                     Desired City Betterment
 Parapets and MSE            1. Street name on bridge parapets.
 Wall                        2. City logo on MSE Wall in SE Quadrant of 2700 West.
                             3.
 Lighting and Traffic        1. Black Powder coated signal poles mast arms and lights.
 Signal Poles                2. Black powder coat sign poles with decorative slip bases
                             and dome caps
 Railing                      Install black wrought iron fencing on the bridge parapet wall.
                             (3’ Ornamental fence)




 UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                            Page 13 of 14
                                        Project No. S-0154(250)4, Salt Lake County
                                            Bangerter Highway South Interchanges
                                                                       Riverton City
                                                Charge ID No. 74311      PIN 20415

                               EXHIBIT C
                            ESTIMATED COST




     Attach backup of estimate received from Design Builder, Supplier,
                      subcontractor, third-party, etc.




UT_Agree_Riverton_City_MA                                                Page 14 of 14
