                             MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:           Planning Department
Date:           June 1, 2021
Subject:        Ordinance 21-13, Amending and Updating Riverton City’s Ordinance
                Regulating Development on Private Lanes, Proposed By Riverton City


On May 13, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this proposed
amendment. The Planning Commission voted to recommend approval of this text
amendment. The Planning Commission recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 21-13 amending Sections 18.(20,25,30,35,&40).070,
Lots Located on Private Lanes, as described in Exhibit “A”

Ordinance and Issues

Riverton City currently has ordinances regulating development of lots on private lanes, and has
discussed generally with the Commission and City Council updating and amended those
ordinances.

The amended ordinance addresses several key issues relating to development on private lanes.
It clarifies that all required setbacks shall apply, and shall be measured from the edge of the
private lane, rather than property lines. It also stipulates that the private lane area will not be
counted towards determining the total buildable area for the main dwelling and for accessory
structures. “Flag” lots, or lots where a portion of the lot area is made up solely by the private lane,
may not count the narrow portion of the lot occupied only by the private lane towards the minimum
lot area. There is a diagram included in the draft illustrating this.

The amendment allows the maximum number of lots utilizing a private lane to be determined
during Conditional Use permit approval. Minimum width standards are set, and the City has the
discretion during approval to require additional width and infrastructure, including curb, gutter,
and sidewalk, based on the number of lots and the circumstances of development. The ordinance
also clarifies that required infrastructure must be installed prior to issuance of a building permit.
Staff will present additional information on the ordinance at the upcoming hearing.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of this amendment, and staff concurs with that
recommendation.




Report by: JL
5/25/2021
Attachments
The following items are attached:
         1. Proposed Amended Private Lane Ordinance   2. Original Text




Report by: JL
5/25/2021
PRIVATE LANE ORDINANCE
             AMENDED
18.**.070 Lots located on private lanes.
(1) Public Street Systems Encouraged. Public street systems shall be encouraged for access to all
residential dwelling sites. However, the city recognizes that there are cases where it is impossible or
impractical to develop the lot according to normal subdivision standards. In situations where insufficient
land access exists for a public street system, a conditional use for a private lane or right-of-way may be
approved by the Planning Commission.


Subdivisions on private lanes or rights-of-way may be developed in any residential zone where at least
two of the following conditions exist (subsections (i) or (ii) and (iii) of this section).

            (i) A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property to construct a
            public street; or

            (ii) It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically subdivided
            with public streets, and that development on a private lane would not impede the extension of
            any adjacent public right-of-way either now or in the foreseeable future; and

            (iii) The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining properties as
            required by the master transportation plan.


(2) Rights-of-way shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and adjoining
properties that may have access across such rights-of-way. All new private lanes shall be fully improved
with asphalt or concrete to adopted city standards. Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm drainage
methods may be required, as approved by the City based upon city engineer’s recommendation. All
portions of private rights-of-way shall accommodate a street of no less than the standards as listed
subsequently:


      (a) One to two lots: 20-feet of paved surface width.


      (b) Three+ lots: 25 feet of paved surface width.


      (c) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where the lane
      meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.


      (d) Where development includes more than four lots and/or lane width exceeds 150 feet in length,
      additional right-of-way width, including sidewalk on at least one side, may be required by the City
      up to the minimum pavement and sidewalk width of a standard public residential right-of-way, as
      determined in Conditional Use permit approval.
(3) Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate emergency vehicles.
The turnaround configuration may be in any forms compliant with the appropriate Fire Codes, as
determined by the Fire Marshal or designee. Additional clearance may be required to accommodate
emergency vehicle access.


(4) The maximum number of units allowed will be established in the review of the conditional use permit,
based on criteria including but not limited to required minimum lot sizes, traffic and access management
on the private lane and adjacent public street, emergency service’s needs, and available lane widths.


(5) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated on all lots, including full access where
required by city officials or workers.


(6) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public streets shall apply to all buildings and uses
adjoining private rights-of-way, with setbacks measured from edge of required private lane width. No
portion of the private lane may be counted towards required driveway dimensions on individual lots. On
flag lots where a narrow portion of the lot area is occupied solely by the private lane, that narrow private
lane area may not be counted towards the minimum required lot size (see Figure 1).




Figure 1


(7) No private lane may be greater in length than 1,500 feet, as measured to the access point from the
public right-of-way.


(8) All lots shall be provided with standard utility connections, furnished by the property owner, including
approved fire protection infrastructure.


(9) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate a private
lane only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access available, now or in
the foreseeable future.
(10) Private lanes shall be named and identified by means of a suitable permanent street marker to
Riverton City standards, to be installed prior to issuance of building permits.


(11) An approved driveway approach from the public street to the lane shall be provided.


(12) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for maintenance for the lane, drainage
structures, curb, and gutter and any other common improvements.


(13) Private lane area shall not be included in the calculation of buildable area for individual lots, including
determination of allowed square footage for primary and accessory structures.


(14) All required infrastructure, including road improvements, fencing, and storm water controls shall be
installed prior to issuance of any building permits.
PRIVATE LANE ORDINANCE
             ORIGINAL
18.40.070 Lots located on private lanes.
The planning commission may authorize conditional use approval of residential building permits for
lots on private rights-of-way under the following provisions:

(1) Rights-of-way shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and adjoining
properties that may have access across such rights-of-way. All new private lanes shall be fully
improved with asphalt to adopted city standards. Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm drainage
methods may be required, based upon city engineer’s review. All portions of private rights-of-way
shall accommodate a street of no less than the standards as listed subsequently:

      (a) One residential user: 20-foot right-of-way with a minimum of 15 feet of paved surface width.

      (b) Two residential users: 25 feet (a minimum of 20 feet of paved surface width).

      (c) Three to four residential users: 30 feet (a minimum of 25 feet of paved surface width).

      (d) Development of up to four dwelling units on an existing private lane shall be developed to
      the minimum standards on the existing private lane. However, all new development shall
      provide or bond for asphalt pavement to city standards at a similar width to the existing private
      lane.

(2) A minimum pavement width of 20 feet shall be provided where lanes are more than 150 feet in
length, regardless of the number of homes located thereon.

(3) A maximum of four residential users are permitted on a private drive or lane.

(4) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated for full access by city officials or
workers, unless the private lane is part of a planned unit development for which there is a master
water or utility meter.

(5) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public streets shall apply to all buildings and
uses adjoining on private rights-of-way.

(6) No private drive or lane may be greater in length than 450 feet.

(7) No building or other structure shall be erected to obstruct the logical extension of any street as
identified on the transportation element of the Riverton City general plan or master transportation
plan.

(8) All lots shall be provided with standard utility connections, furnished by the property owner,
including an approved sewage disposal system and water line capable of supplying fire protection to
within 200 feet of a dwelling. A fire hydrant shall also be required to furnish said fire protection.

(9) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate a
private lane only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access
available, now or in the foreseeable future.
(10) Private lanes shall be named and identified by means of a suitable permanent street marker to
Riverton City standards.

(11) An approved driveway approach from the street to the lane shall be provided.

(12) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for maintenance for the lane, drainage
structures, curb, and gutter and any other common improvements.

(13) Building permit approval shall be subject to payment of a construction bond required by the city
for all improvements.

(14) Storm drain lines, inlets and/or on-site detention basins may be required.

(15) Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate emergency
vehicles. The turnaround configuration may be in the following forms, as determined by the fire chief
or designee, and must conform to the following standard:

      (a) Cul-de-Sac. Minimum radius distance of 35 feet. This is the preferred radius for a
      turnaround and may be required if it is determined by staff to be feasible.

      (b) Hammerhead. Minimum arm lengths of 45 feet or according to the current adopted fire
      code and may be in different configurations. The appropriate configuration shall be determined
      by the fire chief or designee.
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 15
April 23, 2021


Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated that the above request is for a zone text
change to the accessory structure ordinance. There were changes the City wanted to make
in order to be compliant with changes to State law. Staff was still working through the
necessary changes and asked the Planning Commission to continue the item.

Commissioner Cannon moved to CONTINUE the public hearing regarding Section
18.225, Accessory Structures, to the May 13, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting.
Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

4.     DECISION ITEMS

       a.     N/A.

5.     DISCUSSION ITEMS

       a.     DISCUSSION   OF   AMENDING      ORDINANCE                         REGULATING
              DEVELOPMENT OF LOTS ON PRIVATE LANES.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that there had been discussions with the Planning Commission and
the City Council regarding proposed amendments to the Private Lane Ordinance. He
wanted to review the proposed draft with the Planning Commission to see if there were any
additional corrections or changes the Commission would like to see reflected in the draft
before the next meeting.

The current ordinance for private lanes includes a maximum of four lots on a private lane
and a maximum length of 450 feet. However, the ordinance lacked clarity on how setbacks
and other lot size issues were addressed. Mr. Lethbridge overviewed some of the proposed
changes and discussed the width standards. For one to two lots, there would be a 20-foot
minimum. Anything above three lots would have a 25-foot minimum. The ordinance would
allow for additional width to be required by the City or due to the Fire Code.

In situations where there is an existing private lane, additional lots could not be added if the
lane does not meet the minimum width standard. The private lane would either need to be
expanded or further development would not be possible. There was no maximum number
set for the number of lots and the length. That would be established in a Conditional Use
Permit, which would give the Planning Commission discretion to determine the appropriate
number of lots. Mr. Lethbridge felt that would provide additional flexibility.

The proposed amendment included a requirement that the lane be paved with asphalt or
concrete and that there be street signage. Setbacks would be measured to the edge of the
required lane area. The proposed amendment would also allow the lane to be counted
toward the total lot area; however, it could not be counted toward the buildable area. It also
would not count toward the accessory structure allowance.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                16
April 23, 2021

Mr. Lethbridge discussed flag lots and explained that flag lots are when the lane is actually
part of the lot itself. In those situations, the lane area would not count toward the minimum
lot size. He felt that the proposed amendments would address previous concerns related to
private lanes. Commissioner Breinholt asked about street signs. He wondered who would
pay for private lane signage. Mr. Lethbridge reported that the applicant would be required
to pay for all private lane signage. He noted that there are visibility requirements related to
reflectivity. Mr. Prestwich added that the Public Works Department adopted a street sign
standard for private lanes a few years ago.

6.     MINUTES

       a.     N/A.

7.     ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 9:10 p.m.
