                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            May 4, 2021
Subject:         Ordinance 21-12, General Plan Amendment & Rezone, 3.9 Acres Located At
                 13040 S Redwood, Amending the General Plan from Estate Density
                 Residential to Low Density Residential, and Rezoning the Property from
                 RR-22 to R-3, Ryan McDougal, Applicant


The Planning Commission recently held public hearings to review the applications for
General Plan and Rezone as indicated above. Minutes from those meetings are included
below. The Planning Commission voted to recommend denial of both the General Plan
and Rezone applications, with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council deny Ordinance 21-12, proposed amendment to the General Plan
designation of the 3.9 acres of land located at 13040 South Redwood Road from “Estate
Density Residential” to “Low Density Residential”, and the proposed rezone of the same
property from RR-22 to R-3, with Ryan McDougal as applicant.

Background

This is a public hearing for an application to both amend the Land Use Element of the General
Plan and rezone contiguous properties in Riverton City.. The application was made Ryan
McDougal. The subject property is 3.9-acres located on the east side of Redwood Road at
13040 South, just north of Riverton Ranch Road. The property is currently vacant. The
current Zoning of the property is Single Family Residential half-acre minimum lot size (RR-22)
which conforms to the current General Plan Designation of “Estate Density Residential”.

The current General Plan was recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by the
City Council in August of 2020. The General Plan designated all the land on the east side of
Redwood Road from 12910 South southward to Christian Way (13700 South) as “Estate
Density Residential”. Note there is a small property on the corner of Redwood and Riverton
Ranch Road which is not a part of this General Plan Amendment Request.

The applicant is requesting the current General Plan designation of “Estate Density Residential”
be changed to “Low Density Residential” and a rezone to the R-3 Zone.



Report by: TJP
5/3/2021
The Zoning Map and the General Plan
The Zoning Map and the General Plan Land Use Map, (often referred to simply as “the General
Plan”) are separate but complimentary tools to guide development in the City.      They work
together, but each has its own purpose. The Zoning Map shows the current zoning of properties.
Zoning determines what can be done on a property today. Zones shown on the City’s Zoning
map correspond to the zoning ordinance found in Riverton City Code Title 18. Zoning is set by
action of the City Council and the zoning map may be updated several times a year to adjust for
approved rezones.

The General Plan guides the zoning map and
future development by designating areas as
residential or commercial and establishing a
range of densities for the residential as shown
in Figure 1.      More than one zone may
correspond to a General Plan Designation.

For most of the built-out areas of Riverton the
General Plan designation corresponds with
the zoning. But in a few areas the city has
assigned a General Plan designation that
does not correspond with the current use or
zoning.     These are typically undeveloped Figure 1 General Plan Designations for Residential
properties, or areas with older buildings where
there is development potential. The City rarely initiates rezones of private property, rather the
city waits for a property owner to request a rezone. The General Plan to announce to developers
and land owners which properties the city would consider for a rezone and the General Plan
designation tells what zones would be possible. The table below shows the General Plan
Designation and the corresponding zones.

    General Plan Designation Residential                       Possible Zones
 Estate Density Residential                       R-1, RR-22
 Low Density Residential                          R-1, RR-22, R-2. R-3
 Medium Density Residential                       R-1, RR-22, R-2. R-3, R-4
 Medium High Density Residential                  RM-6, RM-8
 High Density Residential                         RM-8, RM-14, RM-18

This application is a request to amend the General Plan to Low Density Residential, which would
allow lots of at least 14,000 square feet, which is 1/3 acre. The application simultaneously
requests that the property be rezoned to R-3, which has a minimum lot size of 14,000. While
these items are being considered together, the Council may consider the question of appropriate
General Plan designation first. Should the Council find the General Plan should be amended,
consideration of the rezone can follow.

The Planning Commission voted to recommend denial of both the proposed amendment to the
General Plan and the proposed rezone of property.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1. Area General Plan & Proposed Amendment
          2. Area Zoning & Proposed Amendment
Report by: TJP
5/3/2021
          3. Public Comments




Report by: TJP
5/3/2021
                                         12800 South




                                                 1300 West
                                  13400 South




                   Redwood Road
rivertonutah.gov
                   Redwood Road
                                  12950 South




rivertonutah.gov
General Plan and Zoning Map




                        R-1, RR-22
                        R-1, RR-22, R-2, R-3
                        R-1, RR-22, R-2, R-3, R-4
                        RM-6, RM-8
rivertonutah.gov        RM-8, RM-14, RM-18
                                                            12800 South
Area General Plan
Current General Plan Designation:
Estate Density Residential




                                                                    1300 West
Requested General Plan Designation:
Low Density Residential

                                                     13400 South




                                      Redwood Road
rivertonutah.gov
Area Zoning                                                       12800 South


Current Zoning:
RR-22 (Rural Residential – ½ acre lots)




                                                                       1300 West
                                                         13400 South




                                          Redwood Road
rivertonutah.gov
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
March 25, 2021

setting a precedent is unfounded. He noted that this is a special case as they are remnant
parcels leftover from an expansion of Redwood Road.

Commissioner Breinholt questioned the purpose of the General Plan. City Engineer, Greg
Wilson, explained that the purpose of the General Plan is to provide a guiding document to
the City, elected officials, property owners, potential developers, and staff and identify the
land use the City foresees occurring on a property. In some cases, the General Plan is
consistent with the underlying zoning but is intended to guide decisions made by the
Planning Commission and City Council and give guidance to anyone interested in what the
property might look like in the future. He noted that circumstances change and General
Plans may are typically updated every three to five years.

Commissioner Brown asked if the developer had considered applying for a variance.
Mr. McDougal state that he was not familiar with the process and understood that that was
not an option at this point. Mr. Prestwich explained that a variance is not a tool that is
available in this situation. The City cannot grant a use variance which is a very specific,
technical term referring to a request for an exception.

Mr. Prestwich described additional remnants left by UDOT after the expansion. He
explained that those properties are considered legal, non-conforming and he emphasized
that the City encouraged UDOT to consolidate those that remained in order to meet the
underlying zoning. He noted that the non-conforming properties do not meet the underlying
zoning and were created by UDOT despite objections from the City.

Commissioner Lefgren believed the proposed development does not meet the proper
planning guidelines, is premature, and sets a precedent. He opposed the request but was
in favor of reviewing it more holistically.

Chair Rushton expressed frustration with UDOT leaving undevelopable lots and asked if
access onto Redwood Road is determined by UDOT. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that it is
subject to UDOT approval and they are looking to encourage shared access.

Commissioner Cannon moved to recommend DENIAL of Application PLZ-21-5002
changing the General Plan Designation of the 3.9 acres of land located at 13040 South
Redwood Road thus keeping the current “Estate Density Residential” designation.
Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       b.     GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT:       IVORY DEVELOPMENT, LLC IS
              REQUESTING AN AMENDMENT TO THE CITY’S GENERAL PLAN FOR
              APPROXIMATELY 8.9 ACRES OF LAND LOCATED AT 11850 SOUTH 3600
              WEST.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the request is from Ivory
Development for an amendment to the City’s General Plan. A rendering of the property was
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
March 25, 2021

displayed. He noted that the property has housed Riverton’s Pumpkin Patch and Corn Maze
for years. The current Riverton City General Plan is low-density residential and the applicant
was requesting a change to medium-high residential to accompany a rezone from
Commercial Neighborhood (“CN”) to Residential Multi-Family (“RM”). He explained that the
zoning is R-3 with 14,000 square-foot lots to the west, R-4 with 10,000 square foot lots to
the south, and R-22 across the road to the east. The General Plan was set to low-density
from commercial in 2005 when the neighborhood to the west was being developed. The
medium-high density General Plan designation sets a range of five to eight dwelling units
per acre corresponding to the RM-6 and RM-8 zones. The RM zone allows for detached
single-family on small lots attached as townhomes or attached as condominiums.

Staff had received 47 forms of communication expressing concern as to what may or may
not be allowed on the property. Mr. Prestwich clarified that if a commercial development
comes into the City with a site plan application, staff would accept it and review it to
determine if it meets the ordinance. It would then come before the Commission for approval.
The current General Plan prohibits lots that are .30-acre or larger. Mr. Prestwich confirmed
that the applicant is requesting an amendment to the General Plan.

Commissioner Brown asked how the proposed rezone compares to the South Jordan
zoning. Mr. Prestwich explained that every city has its own designation and categories. He
believed that the adjacent South Jordan zoning is high-density residential with a density of
12 units per acre.

Brad Mackay, Senior Project Manager for Ivory Development, reported that this is the first
project he has been involved in that has been in the City in which he resides. He wanted to
ensure that they do what is best for the City. In reviewing the property, he found that there
was a Purchase Agreement being contemplated for high-density townhomes that was
quickly denied. The broker approached Ivory Homes with alternative options and discussed
appropriate uses with several Riverton City Council Members. The process for amending
the General Plan was discussed. Renderings of the proposed product were displayed.
Mr. Mackay stated that their intention is to begin with a General Plan amendment and
process an RM-6 zone that will allow for six units per acre, or approximately 53 units with a
mix of twin homes and single-family homes for those age 55 and older. He confirmed that
the neighbors have expressed concern with the proposed housing type. He explained that
this type of development will give homeowners a back yard, several bedrooms on the main
floor, and a basement for future expansion. The largest home will be approximately 1,800
square feet in size with three bedrooms. He noted that all of the units will be single-story
and be priced at around $550,000. They will blend in aesthetically with the surrounding
neighborhood with a 25-foot rear setback.

Commissioner Cluff stated that residents are concerned about potential parking restrictions
and pushing parking into the surrounding neighborhoods. Mr. Mackay referenced the
concept plan that includes a two-car garage with a driveway that will accommodate two cars
for guests with additional parking provided throughout. He believed it was more likely that
residents will use the 3600 West access heading south rather than cut through the
neighborhood to the west.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
March 25, 2021

Chris Dugan stated that he lives on the corner of 11800 South and 3700 West. He was
opposed to the proposed twin homes and suggested .30-acre lots. His home faces west
and has limited privacy with the fourth floor Odessa Apartments. He was concern about the
type of tenants that high-density housing will attract and with the condominiums across the
street being turned into apartments rather than sold.

Tim Goodrich reported that his property backs the subject property. He expressed
frustration with the South Jordan apartment complex to the north and asked that the zoning
remain consistent with what exists on the other three corners of the intersection.

Marina Rogers stated her property abuts the subject property and expressed concern with
safety. The Ivory Homes plan would place two homes up against her yard and eliminate
any privacy. She considered congestion to be a problem and urged the Commission to keep
the project low density.

Bryce Bagley lives directly south of the proposed property and asked the Commission to
consider the traffic implications that any density change may have on their neighborhood.
He encouraged the Commission to consider the future of this parcel and rezone it to low-
density housing to eliminate issues with future development.

Todd Sargent shares a property line with the subject property. He supported development
but believed the Ivory Homes plan had been poorly presented. He was opposed to the
density request and was concerned with increased traffic into adjacent neighborhoods. He
recommended denial of the proposed project.

Brenda Hughes suggested that the zoning remain low density. She invited the Commission
to visit the site between the hours of 3:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. to witness the traffic and
congestion. She expressed opposition to the request.

Ed Reeder resides on 11800 South and was present through all of the issues with the
construction of the nearby apartment building. He was concerned that if the developer is
granted this request they will continue to ask for more. He was opposed to the traffic, noise,
and pollution that will come with the proposed development.

Paul Skouten, a 3600 West resident, stated that he lives south of Midas Creek and grew up
in the area. He was in favor of the proposed change and 55+ communities. He suggested
that a compromise be considered and expressed concern with the additional traffic. Larger
homes with more green space and parking were recommended. He believed that 1,400
square foot homes would not be conducive to the surrounding area.

Dennis Holby lives near the proposed property and agreed with the previous concerns. He
stated that the City has spent a number of years on the General Plan and he felt that the
only entity to benefit from the density increase will be Ivory. He recommended the General
Plan remain as-is and that the request be denied.

Darrell Skouten reported that he lives in a retirement community similar to the one being
proposed by Ivory Development. He was of the opinion that it will not work in Riverton City.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 7
March 25, 2021

He emphasized the need for additional parking to allow for snow plowing. The density was
too high and he believed the General Plan should remain as-is.

Nathan Coons indicated that he has owned the pumpkin patch for 20 years. He stated that
there is no access road on his property and asked that a stub road be considered.
Wastewater runoff was also of concern.

Tyler Rhodes, a 11970 South resident, is the father of four young children and expressed
concern with safety. Additional traffic will exacerbate those concerns. He suggested that
they adhere to the General Plan.

Mr. Mackay clarified that Ivory Development was not involved with the project to the north.
It was a South Jordan project developed by the Boyer Company and Wasatch Properties.
The stub road connection to 3600 West would be part of the preliminary plat or site plan.
Interconnection between neighborhoods is often favorable but they were willing to do
whatever staff and the City recommends. With regard to traffic along 3600 West, the
proposed General Plan amendment has the same traffic count as if they were .25-acre lots.
He noted that there may be a few more units but the traffic counts in a senior community are
approximately half of a traditional neighborhood. He explained that the property is currently
zoned commercial. A commercial use will generate far more traffic than any type of senior
housing or residential use on .25-acre or .33-acre lots. He recognized the shared concerns
and felt that once complete, the residents will have a more favorable opinion. The process
requires them to begin with the General Plan and then move to the zone change and then
concept plan.

Commissioner Breinholt remarked that the property appears to be landlocked if there is no
access provided. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that there is a narrow strip of property and both
parcels are owned by the same owner.

Mr. Mackay reported that he has worked for Ivory Development for 18 years and in
engineering 10 years prior to that. He agreed to work with Mr. Coons and his 3.0-acre
property. He was hesitant to share access stubs as it would reduce the amount of usable
space. With the downhill situation, the utilities will be located along 3600 West. The General
Plan Amendment does not specify those issues. He explained that the Elderly Overlay Zone
may be adopted by the Council in time to potentially utilize it with this project, however,
because they do not know the final form, it was not included in the discussion. The existing
designation is .33-acre and could not be applied to the underlying commercial zoning.

Commissioner Cannon was initially frustrated with the proposed density but considered Ivory
Development to be a reputable local company that builds high-end homes. Being in the real
estate business he has experience and emphasized the need for more senior communities.
30% of buyers within a three to five-mile radius agreed that senior communities often lower
traffic counts, frequently have only one car, and generate few car trips. He stated that public
parking will be discussed at a future meeting. With a price point of $500,000, he believed
these types of developments will enhance surrounding property values.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
March 25, 2021

Chair Rushton stated the proposed development appears to be reasonable in an area that
could otherwise be commercial. Senior housing is needed in the City and he was in favor
of the proposal. He explained that the two-step process often causes confusion and
suggested it be reviewed further by the City Council.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the current iteration of the Elderly Housing Overlay was applied
to the current General Plan density if it would allow for this development. Mr. Prestwich
stated that it is proposed to allow for a 50% increase over the underlying density or .33-acre
lots. Three units per acre would put it in the four to five units per acre range. Commissioner
Cluff preferred that the underlying General Plan remain low density in the event anything
were to change in the future and have the developer pursue the Elderly Housing Overlay.

Commissioner Lefgren agreed with Commissioner Cluff’s request and believed the two-step
process was cause for concern. He supported an active adult living development in Riverton
City. He recommended denial to allow additional time for the Elderly Housing Overlay to be
completed.

Commissioner Lefgren moved to recommend DENIAL of Application PLZ-21-5003
changing the General Plan Designation of the 8.9-acre parcel located at 11850 South
3600 West thus keeping the current “Low-Density Residential” designation with the
following condition:

       1.     The applicant can return once the Elderly Housing Designation has been
              approved and is available.

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Brown-
Nay, Commissioner Cluff-Aye, Commissioner Lefgren-Aye, Commissioner
Breinholt-Aye, Commissioner Cannon-Nay, Chair Rushton-Nay. The motion failed 3-
to-3.

Commissioner Cannon moved to recommend APPROVAL of Application PLZ-21-5003
changing the General Plan Designation of the 8.9-acre parcel located at 11850 South
3600 West from “Low-Density Residential” to “Medium-High Density Residential”
with a maximum of six units per acre or RM-6, which is in line with Elderly Housing
Overlay when adopted. Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion. Vote on
motion:    Commissioner Brown-Aye, Commissioner Cluff-Aye, Commissioner
Lefgren-Nay, Commissioner Breinholt-Aye, Commissioner Cannon-Aye, Chair
Rushton-Aye. The motion passed 5-to-1.

       c.     COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN: “MISTER CARWASH” TO BE LOCATED ON A
              0.94-ACRE SITE AT 4627 WEST 13400 SOUTH.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the request is for a stand-alone site
plan that has been properly noticed for public hearing. A rendering of the property was
displayed. Mr. Prestwich reported that there is a large center island that prohibits left turns
into the business. The anticipated nearby homes will eventually transition into commercial.
Access is shared with an adjacent medical office and has been widened to accommodate
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               5
April 23, 2021

Code already states that the Land Use Authority can grant a Conditional Use Permit without
bringing it to the Planning Commission. Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge
noted that at the time the ordinance was adopted, there was a desire to have these types of
Conditional Use Permits reviewed by the Planning Commission. However, if the Planning
Commission is comfortable with them being reviewed at staff level, that could be done going
forward. Commissioner Lefgren believed that when a fence is interior and does not border
a public right-of-way, it can likely be dealt with by staff.

Commissioner Lefgren moved to APPROVE Application PLZ-21-2014 Richard’s Fence
within a Fence, to be located at 2310 West 13145 South with the following conditions:

      1.     The second fence shall be constructed wholly on the applicant’s
             property, verified by a land survey.

      2.     The second fence shall not lean against or otherwise utilize the existing
             fence for support or stability.

      3.     The applicant shall place concrete mow strip as a permanent weed
             control measure in space between the fences.

      4.     The fencing shall comply with any and all other applicable sections of
             the fencing ordinance.

Commissioner Russell seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      c.     REZONE:  RYAN MCDOUGAL IS REQUESTING A REZONE FOR
             APPROXIMATELY 3.09 ACRES OF LAND LOCATED AT 13040 SOUTH
             REDWOOD ROAD.

Commissioner Russell was excused from the remainder of the meeting.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the above item involves a rezone
application for 3.09 acres of land located at 13040 South Redwood Road. He shared a map
of the property with the Planning Commission. He explained that the property was seen
previously as a General Plan application. At that time, the idea was to present the General
Plan to the Planning Commission and the City Council. Staff would then come back and
present the rezone to the Planning Commission before moving forward with the rezone
presentation to the City Council. However, that process changed and the General Plan and
rezone presentations would be combined for the City Council. Both the General Plan and
rezone would be heard at the May 4, 2021, City Council Meeting.

The current zone is RR-22 and the rezone application is for R-3. Mr. Prestwich discussed
the difference between the two zones. While they are both single-family residential zones,
there is a difference in the lot size. The RR-22 zone is 21,780 square feet or one-half acre.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  6
April 23, 2021

The R-3 zone is 14,000 square feet, which is close to three units per acre. The frontage
requirements are also different since the RR-22 zone requires an additional 10 feet. The
RR-22 zone has animal rights, while the R-3 zone does not. However, setbacks and lot
coverage were the same. Both zones also have the ability to develop with a Conditional
Use Permit for a private lane and both permit accessory structures.

The Planning Commission previously recommended denial of the General Plan
Amendment. As a result, staff included a sample motion for denial of the rezone.
Mr. Prestwich clarified that either approval or a continuance could be passed. He added
that there has been a lot of input from neighbors regarding the rezone. The overwhelming
opinion was for denial. The applicant contacted staff via email prior to the meeting to indicate
that he would be unable to attend.

Stewart Grow reported that between the last meeting on this property and tonight, the
applicant had not reached out to the neighborhood. Mr. Grow tried to contact the applicant
multiple times and only received a one-sentence text message response. He did not believe
the applicant was willing to work with the neighbors. He asked that the Planning
Commission recommend denial of the rezone application.

Sherri Withers indicated that she lives in the Riverton Ranch subdivision. Ms. Withers
believed that people were looking to own one-half acre lots and hoped that the Planning
Commission would deny the request.

Bob Ford reported that he was one of the original founders of the Riverton Heritage Group,
which represents citizens from Redwood Road to the river bank. He reported that the
Riverton Ranch Subdivision was a subset of the Riverton Heritage Group. The group had
been very engaged to ensure that part of Riverton has one-half acre lots at a minimum. He
did not feel it was accurate to assume that because there were fewer members of the public
at this hearing that there was any less opposition. The citizens feel strongly about
maintaining what was reflected in the Master Plan. Mr. Ford added that the Riverton
Heritage Group wanted to be more involved but no interaction had been requested.

City Attorney, Craig Bott noted that a witness in a hearing can only testify to their own
personal knowledge. They cannot testify on the position of other individuals, especially in a
situation where a speaker is claiming to represent a specific group. As a result, Mr. Bott felt
that the testimony from Mr. Ford should not be considered.

Garey Exeter reported that he lives on Christan Way and was represented by Mr. Ford as
they are both part of the Riverton Heritage Group. The group was concerned about
development along Redwood Road on some of the vacant lots that are in front of the
Christan Way area. Mr. Exeter indicated that he is a homeowner in the area and
recommended that the rezone application be denied. He added that all of the neighbors he
had spoken to wanted to maintain the one-half acre minimum lot size.

Mr. Bott reminded the public speakers that they can testify to their own observations but
cannot speak for anyone other than themselves.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 7
April 23, 2021

Michael Shane Portner reported that he owns a construction company and supported the
idea of developing homes. However, he purchased his home because he wanted a one-
half acre lot and he pays taxes on one-half acre.

Lee Brown asked that the Planning Commission deny the rezone application.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Lefgren asked Mr. Bott for clarification of his earlier statements. For instance,
he wondered if someone representing the Homeowners Association (“HOA”) could
represent the group if they are a member. He also asked if signatures from residents could
be presented to the Planning Commission to represent a neighborhood. Mr. Bott explained
that for an individual to allege that they are a spokesperson for a group, they need to be able
to show that the group exists and show the membership of that organization. If the bylaws
of the organization state that once you belong to that organization you agree with the position
of the governing board, someone could then state the position of the group.

Mr. Bott addressed Commissioner Lefgren’s question related to signatures. He stated that
someone can gather signatures and submit a petition. However, it is important to remember
that the courts have stated that public clamor is not a basis for making a decision. The basis
is law and the application of facts to the law. Mr. Bott noted that public statements can be
taken into consideration by the Planning Commission but the Commissioners needed to
ensure that they are making decisions based on their own perceptions of law rather than
simply responding to public clamor.

Commissioner Breinholt asked about a dedicated spokesperson speaking on behalf of a
group of neighbors. Mr. Bott explained that if a group with similar opinions elect someone
to speak for them, that would be acceptable because they all shared their intent. It becomes
more complicated when there is a large group or organization involved. Commissioner
Cannon appreciated the fact that Mr. Bott had brought this issue to the attention of the
Planning Commission. He also thanked the public for their comments.

Commissioner Lefgren moved to recommend DENIAL of Application PLZ-21-4002
Rezoning 3.09 acres of land located at 13040 South Redwood Road, thus keeping the
zoning RR-22. Commissioner Cannon seconded the motion. The motion passed with
the unanimous consent of the Commission.

       d.     HOME OCCUPATION: GERBER FARMS TO BE LOCATED AT 12952
              SOUTH CROIX CIRCLE.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the above item is for a Conditional
Use Home Occupation located at 12952 South Croix Circle. He overviewed home
occupations with the Planning Commission. The home occupation ordinance specifies that
staff can review and approve home occupations if they meet all listed requirements. The
home occupation must not be on the prohibited list, meets all fixed standards, and meets all
