         Riverton City Choice Awards for “Excellence in Education”

                      FOOTHILLS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

                                      December 3, 2019


Brianne Belcher – 1st Grade Girl Student – Brianna Belcher is a fantastic example of our
Foothills Kindness initiative and an ideal representative of a Foothills Mustang. She is a leader
and role model in behavior as well as academic areas. She is aware of her current level of
achievement and sets personal goals to raise that achievement. She does not settle for
adequate, but rather strives for excellence and takes pride in her work. She is accepting of the
differences of others. She cheerfully and willingly helps her peers with their individual needs.
Mrs. Knowles, Brianna's first grade teacher, states that she always does the right thing even
when no one is watching. She exhibits exemplary citizenship and is respectful, courteous and
polite! We are proud to have Brianna Belcher as a student at Foothills Elementary.

Alexander Calton – 5th Grade Boy Student – Alex is a wonderful and dedicated student to his
academic learning. He is also dedicated to helping his peers. His 5th grade teacher, Ms. Gerber,
states that he works hard in and out of school on his studies, striving to always do his best. He
is always kind to everyone and goes that extra mile to help others. He is very respectful to his
teachers and peers. He is a great example of excellent citizenship and as a student that works
hard in everything he does. Alex is also a great role model of friendliness, respect, and
kindness. We are proud to have Alex Calton as a student at Foothills Elementary!

Mrs. Ivonne Huang – 4th Grade Chinese DLI Teacher – Mrs. Huang has taught for Jordan
School District for 8 years as a Dual Language Immersion teacher. She currently leads the team
of Chinese teachers at Foothills Elementary in best practices in the teaching of Chinese. She
mentors other Chinese teachers at Foothills and in the district on how to track student progress
and how to communicate with parents. She works well with students and is always finding ways
to engage students in various lessons. Through the years, a lot of teachers have looked up to
her and have followed her example of how to improve student achievement as well as how to
help all students feel safe and loved. Mrs. Huang is a great asset to Foothills Elementary and
we are lucky to have her!
