                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            February 21, 2023
Subject:         Ordinance 23-05, Amending Section 18.235, Water Efficiency Standards,
                 Updating and Amending Existing Language, Amendments Proposed By Riverton
                 City.


On February 7, 2023, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this proposed text
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission
voted to recommend the following motion:

          I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 23-05, amending Section 18.235 “Water
          Efficiency Standards”, as shown in Exhibit “A”, amending and updating the previously
          adopted recommended standards.

Background

The Riverton City Council has previously adopted water efficient landscaping standards for
development within the City. The standards are based on similar standards put forward by the
Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District and others. The standards as currently adopted
recommend methods of reducing water use within landscaped areas, both residential and
commercial. This can be accomplished both by reducing or eliminating more water intensive
landscape materials, and also by reducing the overall landscaped area.

This proposed amendment updates the standards for commercial and multifamily development, and
for front and side yard landscaping in new construction for single-family residential development,
from “recommended and encouraged” to required as part of the site review process for such
projects. This is consistent with development practices on recent projects. The standards are based
on both requirements of the Utah State Code and recommendations from the Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District. The requirements do include a limitation on the total percentage of
landscaping that be lawn (sod) in new residential construction front and side yards, and a prohibition
on sod/turf in parkstrips in new construction.

Staff will present additional information on this ordinance to the Planning Commission at the hearing.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance draft document.
        2. Backup information from JVWC standards and state code.


Report by: JL
2/15/2023
