                          FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
                       BETWEEN RIVERTON CITY AND
                 EMERY TELECOMMUNICATIONS & VIDEO, INC.

      THIS FRANCHISE AGREEMENT (hereinafter "Agreement") is entered into by and between
the Riverton City of Riverton Utah (hereinafter "CITY"), a municipal corporation and political
subdivision of the State of Utah with principal offices at 12830 S. Redwood Road, Riverton, Utah,
84065, and Emery Telecommunications & Video, Inc. (hereinafter "PROVIDER") with its principal
offices at 445 E SR 29, P.O. Box 629, Orangeville, UT 84537.

                                         RECITALS
     WHEREAS, PROVIDER desires to provide voice, data or video transmission services
within CITY and in connection therewith to establish a telecommunications network in, under,
along, over and across present and future rights-of-way of CITY; and
     WHEREAS, CITY has enacted Title 12, Chapter 25 of the _______Riverton___ City
Municipal Code (hereinafter the "Telecommunication Rights-of-Way Ordinance") which
governs the application and review process for Telecommunication Franchises in CITY; and
      WHEREAS, CITY, in exercise of its management of public Rights-of-Way, believes
that it is in the best interest of the public to provide PROVIDER a nonexclusive franchise to
operate a telecommunications network in CITY.
      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements of the
parties contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, CITY and
PROVIDER agree as follows:
      ARTICLE 1. FRANCHISE AGREEMENT AND ORDINANCE
1.1 Agreement. Upon execution by the parties, this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute
    a contract by and between CITY and PROVIDER.
1.2 Ordinance. CITY has adopted the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance which
    is incorporated herein by reference. PROVIDER acknowledges that it has had an
    opportunity to read and become familiar with the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
    Ordinance. The parties agree that the provisions and requirements of the
    Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance are material terms of this Agreement, and
    that each party hereby agrees to be contractually bound to comply with the terms of the
    Telecommunications       Rights-of-Way      Ordinance.    The    definitions    in   the
    Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance shall apply herein unless a different meaning
    is indicated. Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to require PROVIDER to comply
    with any provision of the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance which is
    determined to be unlawful or beyond CITY's authority.
1.3 Ordinance Amendments. CITY reserves the right to amend the Telecommunications Rights-
    of-Way Ordinance at any time. CITY shall give PROVIDER notice and an opportunity to be
    heard concerning any proposed amendment. If there is any inconsistency between
    PROVIDER's rights and obligations under the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
    Ordinance as amended and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern
    during its term. Otherwise, PROVIDER agrees to comply with any such amendments.
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, any ordinance, rule, or regulation adopted or amended by
    CITY after the Effective Date that applies to PROVIDER’s use of the Rights-of-Way shall (i)
    be reasonable and nondiscriminatory as applied to similarly situated providers, (ii) not
    materially impair PROVIDER’s rights under this Agreement or materially increase
    PROVIDER’s obligations hereunder in a manner that is not generally applicable to other
    providers, and (iii) not require the relocation, undergrounding, or modification of existing
    facilities except on a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis and, where such
    requirements are not generally applicable, subject to reimbursement of PROVIDER’s
    reasonable, documented costs.
1.4 Franchise Description. The Telecommunications Franchise provided hereby shall confer upon
    PROVIDER the nonexclusive right, privilege, and franchise to construct and maintain a
    telecommunications network in, under, above and across the present and future public Rights-
    of-Way in CITY. The franchise does not grant to PROVIDER the right, privilege or authority
    to engage in community antenna (or cable) television business; although, nothing contained
    herein shall preclude PROVIDER from: (1) permitting those with a cable franchise who are
    lawfully engaged in such business to utilize PROVIDER's System within CITY for such
    purposes; or (2) from providing such service in the future if an appropriate franchise is
    obtained and all other legal requirements have been satisfied; or (3) leasing all or part of
    PROVIDER’s telecommunications network to affiliates or third parties, provided that
    PROVIDER maintains ownership of the telecommunications network.
 1.4.1 Provider shall not assign the Franchise, or transfer control of PROVIDER without
         the prior written consent of the City, which shall not be unreasonably withheld,
         conditioned or delayed.
 1.4.2 Notwithstanding the foregoing, PROVIDER may, without CITY consent (i) use
         subcontractors, agents, and vendors in connection with its construction, maintenance,
         and operation of its telecommunications network under this Agreement; (ii) grant
         leases, IRUs, or other rights to use excess capacity of its facilities; (iii) assign this
         Agreement to an Affiliate, upon written notice to the CITY, provided such Affiliate
         assumes all obligations hereunder; and (iv) grant security interests in the
         PROVIDER’s facilities, assets, and revenues in connection with financing
         arrangements.
1.5 Licenses. PROVIDER acknowledges that it has obtained the necessary approvals,licenses or
    permits required by federal and state law to provide telecommunication services consistent
    with the provisions of this Agreement and with the Telecommunications Rights-of- Way
    Ordinance.
1.6 Relationship. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a joint venture or principal-agent
    relationship between the parties and neither party is authorized to, nor shall either party act
    toward third persons or the public in any manner that would indicate any such relationship
    with each other.

                              ARTICLE 2. FRANCHISE FEE
2.1 Franchise Fee. For the Franchise granted herein, PROVIDER shall pay to CITY a 3.5% tax
    in accordance with the Municipal Telecommunication License Tax Act (Utah Code Ann.
    §§10-1-401 tol0-1-410), less any business license fee or business license tax enacted by CITY.
    All payments shall be made to the Utah State Tax Commission, and sent as follows:
                                   Utah State Tax Commission
                                      210 North 1950 West
                                   Salt Lake City, Utah 84134
2.2 Equal Treatment. CITY agrees that if any service forming part of the base for calculating the
    franchise fee under this Agreement is, or becomes, subject to competition from a third party,
    CITY will either impose and collect from such third party a fee or tax on Gross Revenues from
    such competing service in the same percentage specified herein, plus the percentage specified
    as a utility revenue tax or license fee in the then current ordinances of CITY or waive collection
    of the fees provided for herein that are subject to such competition.
                        ARTICLE 3. TERM AND RENEWAL
3.1 Term and Renewal. The franchise granted to PROVIDER shall be for a period of ten (10)
    years commencing on the first day of the month following this Agreement, unless this
    Franchise be sooner terminated as herein provided. At the end of the initial ten (10) year term
    of this Agreement, the franchise granted herein may be renewed by PROVIDER upon the same
    terms and conditions as contained in this Agreement for an additional five (5) year term, by
    providing to CITY's representative designated herein written notice of PROVIDER's intent to
    renew not less than ninety (90) calendar days before the expiration of the initial franchise term.
3.2 Rights of PROVIDER Upon Expiration or Revocation. Upon expiration of the franchise
    granted herein, whether by lapse or time, by agreement between PROVIDER and CITY, or by
    revocation or forfeiture, PROVIDER shall have the right to remove from the Rights-of-Way
    any and all of its System, but in such event, it shall be the duty of PROVIDER, immediately
    upon such removal, to restore the Rights-of-Way from which such System is removed to as
    good condition as the same was before the removal was effected.
                         ARTICLE 4. PUBLIC USE RIGHTS
4.1 City Uses of Poles and Overhead Structures. CITY shall have the right, without cost, to use all
    poles owned by PROVIDER within CITY for fire alarms, police signal systems, or any lawful
    public use; provided, however, (i) any said uses by CITY shall be for activities owned, operated
    or used by CITY for any public purposes and shall not include the provision of
    telecommunications service to third parties, and (ii) the CITY’s use shall not interfere with
    PROVIDER’s operation and maintenance of its telecommunications network.
4.2 Limitations on Use Rights. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require
    PROVIDER to increase pole capacity, alter the manner in which PROVIDER attached
    equipment to the poles, or alter the manner in which PROVIDER operates and maintains its
    equipment. Such CITY attachments shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the
    reasonable requirements of PROVIDER and the current National Electrical Safety Code.
    CITY attachments shall be attached or installed only after written approval by PROVIDER,
    which approval will be processed in a timely manner and will not be unreasonably withheld.
4.3 Maintenance of CITY Facilities. CITY's use rights shall also be subject to the parties reaching
    an agreement regarding CITY's maintenance of CITY attachments.

                            ARTICLE 5. POLICE POWERS
       CITY expressly reserves, and PROVIDER expressly recognizes, CITY's right and duty
to adopt, from time to time, in addition to provisions herein contained, such ordinances and
rules and regulations as CITY may deem necessary in the exercise of its police power for the
protection of the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and their properties.

       ARTICLE 6. CHANGING CONDITIONS AND SEVERABILITY
6.1 Meet to Confer.      PROVIDER and CITY recognize that many aspects of the
   telecommunication business are currently the subject of discussion, examination and
   inquiry by different segments of the industry and affected regulatory authorities and that
   these activities may ultimately result in fundamental changes in the way PROVIDER
   conducts its business and the way CITY regulates the business. In recognition of the
   present state of uncertainty respecting these matters, PROVIDER and CITY each agree,
   upon request of the other during the term of this Agreement, to meet with the other and
   discuss in good faith whether it would be appropriate, in view of developments of the kind
   referred to above during the term of this Agreement, to amend this Agreement or enter
   into separate, mutually satisfactory arrangements to effect a proper accommodation of any
   such developments.
6.2 Severability. If any section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision of this Agreement or
   the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance is for any reason determined to be or
   rendered illegal, invalid, or superseded by other lawful authority, including any state or
   federal, legislative, regulatory or administrative authority having jurisdiction thereof, or
   is determined to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid by any court of competent
   jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision,
   and such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other section, sentence,
   paragraph, term or provision, all of which shall remain in full force and effect for the term
   of this Agreement or any renewal or renewals thereof. If the invalidated portion is
   considered a material consideration for entering into this Agreement, however, the parties
   will negotiate, in good faith, an amendment to this Agreement. As used herein, "material
   consideration" for CITY is its ability to collect the Franchise Fee during the term of this
   Agreement and its ability to manage the Rights-of-Way in amanner similar to that provided
   in this Agreement, the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance, and CITY's
   Excavation Permit Ordinance. For PROVIDER, "material consideration" is its ability to
   use the Rights-of-Way for telecommunication purposes in a manner similar to that
   provided in this Agreement, the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance, and
   CITY's Excavation Permit Ordinance.
 ARTICLE 7. EARLY TERMINATION, REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE
                   AND OTHER REMEDIES
7.1 Grounds for Termination. CITY may terminate or revoke this Agreement and all rights
   and privileges herein provided for any of the following reasons:
   a. PROVIDER fails to make timely payments of the franchise fee as required under Article
      2 of this Agreement and does not correct such failure within sixty (60) calendar days after
      written notice by CITY of such failure;
   b. PROVIDER, by act or omission, materially violates a material duty herein set forth in any
      particular within PROVIDER's control, and with respect to which redress is not otherwise
      herein provided. In such event, CITY, acting by or through its CITY Council, may
      determine, after hearing, that such failure is of a material nature, and thereupon, after
      written notice giving PROVIDER notice of such determination, PROVIDER, within sixty
      (60) calendar days of such notice, shall commence efforts to remedy the conditions
      identified in the notice and shall have ninety (90) calendar days from the date it receives
      notice to remedy the conditions. After the expiration of such 90-day period and failure to
      correct such conditions, CITY may declare the franchise forfeited and this Agreement
      terminated, and thereupon, PROVIDER shall have no further rights or authority hereunder;
      provided, however, that any such declaration of forfeiture and termination shall be subject
      to judicial review as provided by law, and provided further, that in the event such failure
      is of such nature that it cannot be reasonably corrected within the 90-day time period
      provided above, CITY shall provide additional time for the reasonable correction of such
      alleged failure if the reason for the noncompliance was not the intentional or negligent act
      or omission of PROVIDER; or
   c. PROVIDER becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, is adjudged bankrupt,
      or all or part of its facilities should be sold under an instrument to secure a debt and is not
      redeemed by PROVIDER within sixty (60) days.
7.2 Reserved Rights. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to preclude PROVIDER from
    pursuing any legal or equitable rights or remedies it may have to challenge the action of CITY.
7.3 Remedies at Law. In the event PROVIDER or CITY fails to fulfill any of its respective
    obligations under this Agreement, CITY or PROVIDER, whichever the case may be, shall
    have a breach of contract claim and remedy against the other, in addition to any other remedy
    provided herein or by law; provided, however, that no -remedy that would have the effect
    of amending the specific provisions of this agreement shall become effective without such
    actionthat would be necessary to formally amend the Agreement.
7.4 Third Party Beneficiaries. The benefits and protection provided by this Agreement shall inure
    solely to the benefit of CITY and PROVIDER. This Agreement shall not be deemed to create
    any right in any person who is not a party and shall not be construed in any respect to be a
    contract in whole or in part for the benefit of any third party (other than the permitted
    successors and assigns of a party hereto).

                         ARTICLE 8. PARTIES' DESIGNEES

8.1 CITY designee and Address. CITY Manager or his or her designee(s) shall serve as CITY's
    representative regarding administration of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified herein or
    in the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance, all notices from PROVIDER to CITY
    pursuant to or concerning this Agreement, shall be delivered to CITY's representative at
    Riverton City Hall, Attn: City Attorney, 12830 S. Redwood Road, Riverton, Utah 84065, or
    such other officer and address as CITY may designate by written notice to PROVIDER.

8.2 PROVIDER Designee and Address. PROVIDER's representative shall be Brock Johansen,
    Chief Executive Officer of Emery Telecommunications & Video, Inc. and shall serve as
    PROVIDER's representative regarding administration of this Agreement. Unless otherwise
    specified herein or in the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance, all notices from
    CITY to PROVIDER pursuant to or concerning this Agreement, shall be delivered to
    PROVIDER's headquarter offices at 445 E SR 29, P.O. Box 629, Orangeville, UT 84537.
8.3 Failure of Designee. The failure or omission of CITY's or PROVIDER's representative to act
    shall not constitute any waiver or estoppels by CITY or PROVIDER.

              ARTICLE 9. INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION
9.1 Insurance. Prior to commencing operations in CITY pursuant to this Agreement, PROVIDER
    shall furnish to CITY evidence that it has adequate general liability and property damage
    insurance. The evidence may consist of a statement that PROVIDER is effectively self-insured
    if PROVIDER has substantial financial resources, as evidenced by its current certified financial
    statements and established credit rating, or substantial assets located in the State of Utah. Any
    and all insurance, whether purchased by PROVIDER from a commercial carrier, whether
    provided through a self-insured program, or whether provided in some other form or other
    program, shall be in a form, in an amount and of a scope of coverage acceptable to CITY.
9.2 Indemnification. PROVIDER agrees to indemnify, defend and hold CITY harmless from and
    against any and all third-party claims, demands, losses, damages, and liabilities, and reasonable
    attorneys’ fees (collectively “Claims”) to the extent arising out of or resulting from
    PROVIDER's negligent acts or omissions or willful misconduct in the performance of this
    Agreement. CITY shall promptly give written notice to PROVIDER of any Claim with respect
    to which CITY seeks indemnification and, unless in CITY's judgment a conflict of interest
    may exist between the parties with respect to the Claims, CITY shall permit PROVIDER to
    assume the defense of such with counsel of PROVIDER's choosing, unless CITY reasonably
    objects to such counsel. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section to the contrary,
    PROVIDER shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold CITY harmless to the extent
    any Claims arise out of or in connection with (i) negligent acts or omissions or willful
    misconduct of CITY; (ii) CITY’s use of PROVIDER’s facilities or services in violation of this
    Agreement or applicable law; or (iii) modifications or attachments made by CITY or third
    parties without PROVIDER’s written approval.
                             ARTICLE 10. INSTALLATION
10.1 Coordinated Installation. In order to prevent and/or minimize the number of cuts to and
     excavations within CITY Rights-of-Way, PROVIDER shall coordinate with CITY and other
     providers or users of CITY Rights-of-Way, when such cuts and excavations will be made.
     Unless otherwise permitted, installation, repairs, or maintenance of lines and facilities within
     CITY Rights-of- Way shall be made in the same trench and at the time other installations,
     repairs or maintenance of facilities are conducted within CITY Rights-of-Way.
10.2 Underground Installation. Unless otherwise provided, all of PROVIDER's facilities within
     CITY shall be constructed underground. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1.3 of this
     Agreement, PROVIDER expressly agrees to install and maintain all of its facilities in
     accordance with CITY Ordinances regarding the undergrounding of utility lines, in effect at
     the time this Agreement is entered into and as subsequently amended during the term of this
     Agreement. Nothing herein shall require PROVIDER to convert existing overhead facilities
     to underground facilities until and unless other similarly situated providers in the same
     location are required to do so.
                      ARTICLE 11. GENERAL PROVISIONS
11.1 Binding Agreement. The parties represent that: (a) when executed by their respective parties,
     this Agreement shall constitute legal and binding obligations of the parties; and (b) each
     party has complied with all relevant statutes, ordinances, resolutions, by-laws and other legal
     requirements applicable to their operation in entering into this Agreement.
11.2 Utah Choice of Law, Jurisdiction and Venue. The laws of the State of Utah, without giving
     effect to its principles and conflicts of law, govern all adversarial proceedings arising out of
     or related to this Agreement. Jurisdiction and venue shall be in the Utah Third District Court
     located in West Jordan, Utah.
11.3 Time of Essence. Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement.
11.4 Interpretation of Agreement. The invalidity of any portion of this Agreement shall not
     prevent the remainder from being carried into effect. Whenever the context of any provision
     shall require it, the singular number shall be held in include the plural number and viceversa,
     and the use of any gender shall include any other and all genders. The paragraphs and section
     headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not constitute a part of the
     provisions hereof.
11.5 No Presumption. All parties have participated in preparing this Agreement. Therefore, the
     parties stipulate that any court interpreting or construing the Agreement shall notapply the
     rule of construction that the Agreement should be more strictly construed against the drafting
     party.
11.6 Amendments. This Agreement may be modified or amended by writtenagreement only. No
     oral modifications or amendments shall be effective.
11.7 Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon the heirs, successors,
     administrators and assigns of each of the parties.

11.8 Utah Governmental Records Management Act. Whenever the PROVIDER is required to
     make available to the City for inspection, any records of the PROVIDER, and such records
     are made available to the City with a written claim of confidentiality which meets, in the
     judgment of the City Representative, the requirements of the Utah Governmental Records
     Management Act (“GRAMA”), such records shall be classified by the City as “protected”
     within the meaning of GRAMA, and shall not be disclosed by the City except as may
     otherwise be required by GRAMA, by court order, or by applicable City ordinance or policy.


                             [Signature page to follow]
SIGNED AND ENTERED INTO this day of ____, __________, 2026




                                           “CITY”
                                           CITY OF RIVERTON




ATTEST:


APPROVED AS TO FORM:


City Attorney
                                           “PROVIDER:


                                           By: _______________________________


                                           Title:

STATE OF ____________________)
COUNTY OF __________________)


On the “_____________, 2026”, personally appeared before me ‘________________________’
who being by me duly sworn I day that he or she is the _________________, of ______________,
and that the foregoing instrument was signed in behalf of said corporation by authority of a
resolution from Its Owner; and they acknowledged to me that said corporation executed the same.


                                           ________________________________
                                           Notary Public
                                           Residing at:

My Commission Expires: ___________
