SCOPE OF SERVICES:
The City requires assistance to manage the public involvement and public outreach for the Secondary
Metering Project and is requesting public relations services from interested firms capable of providing
such services. The Riverton City Secondary Metering Project as described herein consists of three
construction seasons to install approximately 10,500 secondary water meters. This solicitation is for
Public Relations Services throughout the first construction season, and upon successful completion
and an exceptional performance throughout the first season, may be renewed for each of the
subsequent construction periods. The consultant/proposing firm (proposer) will prepare and deliver a
complete proposal outlining the public relationship services proposed by the firm and shall describe
the public involvement and public outreach efforts and services to be provided for this project and
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the services outlined below:

3.1 COORDINATION MEETING(S): It is anticipated that due to the volume of meters being
installed and the number of public relation (residential) issues that will arise from this
project periodic coordination meetings will be necessary – with the various contractors, as
well as with City staff and personnel.

3.2 SOCIAL MEDIA PREPARATION & INFORMATION DISSIMINATION: The proposer shall assist
the City by developing a public involvement plan that can be posted on the City web page
as well as on social media for the City. Other formats of notifications may also be
necessary.

3.3 FLYERS/DOOR HANGERS: The proposer shall assist the City and contractors in developing
public notifications to be used as flyers, door hangers, and neighborhood announcements,
and assisting in the distribution of such.

3.4 PHONE RECEIPT/RESPONSE: The anticipated volume of phone calls from residents
concerning their particular meter installation requires that the Public Relations firm
provide phone assistance and management, along with direct coordination with the
contractor(s) involved, along with the appropriate action and follow‐up.

3.5 ON‐SITE MEETINGS: Not all issues with the residents and/or the contractor(s) will be able
to be solved from the office or over the phone. A certain amount of “on‐site” meetings
with the property owners will be required to document the concerns and resolve any
issues. These meetings will mainly be at the request of the property owner.

3.6 OTHER: Other items that the proposer may see or recommend be included in the proposed
Scope of Services.
                                           RIVERTON CITY SECONDARY WATER METERING PROJECT | APRIL 2ND, 2020

PUBLIC RELATIONS WORK AND WORK PLAN




                                                                                                                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Local government leaders and staff have generally come to realize that the days of implementing projects with little
or no public involvement are gone. Citizens being served by water providers often take an active role in supporting
or resisting new public works projects, especially if rate increases are involved. In this day of social media, factual
information and non-factual information can spread quickly. It is important to determine the right scope of public
involvement and the right approach. This investment with the public can pay dividends with project budget and
schedule. It can also reduce risk, increase productivity, and foster a healthy relationship between the city and its
residents. We are excited to work with the City to meet and exceed your expectations on this important project. We
propose the following plan for this project:

                    PROJECT TEAM COORDINATION

  1>                Maintaining positive working relationships and the trust of the project team is critical to the
                    communication of accurate, timely information to the public. We understand team members




                                                                                                                           PROPOSER QUALS
                    have jobs to do and our role in the process is to make their lives easier by ensuring a smooth
                    interface with the public.

TASKS:
  • Attend preconstruction meeting (assumes 1 meeting at 2 hours)
  • OPTIONAL - As an agenda item for the preconstruction meeting, we propose to facilitate a mini project
    partnering meeting to discuss team roles and potential communications challenges and solutions. We propose
    to facilitate a follow-up partnering meeting at the halfway point of construction to check in on partnering
    results and needs.
  • Attend weekly construction team coordination meetings - Attendance and active participation at weekly
    team progress meetings will be an opportunity for us to engage with the team, receive schedule and impact




                                                                                                                           > WORK PLAN
    information and convey and address stakeholder concerns that may arise. We will provide weekly stakeholder
    contact reports to the project team for review at these meetings and propose a standing PI agenda item each
    week. (assumes attendance at 25 weekly meetings at 2 hours each, including travel time, may be adjusted to
    one hour each for online meetings pending COVID-19 status)
  • Maintain daily contact with the contractor(s) - We will establish close working relationships with the selected
    contractor and coordinate the resolution of resident concerns. (assumes 25 weeks at 2 hours per week)
  • OPTIONAL - GIS Progress Map: to provide a visual for city officials to review progress, our GIS specialists can
    create an interactive map detailing where work is complete, underway, planned, etc.




                                                                                                                           RELATED PROJECTS
                    PROJECT MESSAGING & COLLATERAL


2>                  Consistent, clear communication and messaging is critical to achieving stakeholder support. We
                    will work with the City to develop project branding and collateral to educate stakeholders and
                    provide them with the resources to keep them informed. Our in-house graphics & web team is
                    highly proficient at creating simple and cost-effective videos and visual aids for projects.

TASKS:
  • OPTIONAL - Create simple project logo for branding purposes.
  • Develop a list of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) - for posting prior to construction to the City website,
    newsletter and social media to educate the community.
                                                                                                                           COST PROPOSAL




  • Draft (2) project information fliers - one for preconstruction notification and another for 48-hour advance
    notice to affected property owners. These may also be used as utility billing inserts.
  • Provide regular construction updates - messaging for ongoing posting to City website, newsletter and social
    media in coordination with City PIO, Casey Saxton. (assumes 25 weeks at 1 hour per week)
  • OPTIONAL - Develop an infographic poster for posting at city hall, post office, recreation centers, etc.

PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLIC OUTREACH                                                                                  |7
                                          RIVERTON CITY SECONDARY WATER METERING PROJECT | APRIL 2ND, 2020
  • OPTIONAL - As needed, draft media press releases for dissemination by the City to the Riverton Journal and




                                                                                                                        EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
    other local media outlets.
  • OPTIONAL - Develop an informational video explaining the project and meter installation process, for posting
    to the City website and social media. This could serve as a preconstruction online open house to educate the
    public on what is being done, when, where, why and how. Today the public has high demands and expectations
    to participate in projects visually. Pictures will be an important component to telling the project story.

                   STAKEHOLDER OUTREACH, COORDINATION &


3>
                   AVAILABILITY
                   On-the-ground public outreach and communication will ensure the success of our PI plan.
                   Despite the best efforts and use of technology, there will always be a need for one-on-one or
                   small group facilitation and conflict resolution.




                                                                                                                        PROPOSER QUALS
                    *Elements of our approach indicated with an asterisk* may be implemented fully in subsequent
years of construction when COVID-19 is no longer a concern. For 2020 project purposes, we propose substituting
in-person meetings with contacting through social media and online outreach methods. Fliers may still be delivered
with appropriate social distancing precautions.

TASKS:
  • *Preconstruction Door-to-Door Visits and Flier Delivery (Proposed for the second and third years of
    construction, assumes distribution to 3,550 residents with the use of three staff members for 2 full days
    with travel time. Online outreach will be substituted for 2020 construction) - The initial personal contacting is
    critical to building relationships with affected property owners and addressing questions and concerns upfront.
    We will leave the information fliers behind with our phone number and email address to establish TLG as the




                                                                                                                        > WORK PLAN
    public point of contact.
  • *48-Hour Construction Advance Notice Fliers - Our team will deliver door-hangers (produced by our team with
    our contact information) to residences within 48-hours of construction beginning on respective properties. To
    help reduce costs, the contractor could deliver fliers to affected residences.
  • Single Point of Public Contact - Stakeholders appreciate having “their person” to go to with questions or
    concerns. To maintain consistency and continuity of messaging, Jennifer Fowler of our team will serve as
    project contact throughout the duration of the project. During unexpected times when Jennifer is unavailable,
    or if escalation is required, Siobhan Locke will be the secondary point of contact. Siobhan and Allison will also
    assist and support Jennifer with stakeholder responses as needed. We will establish a toll-free project hotline




                                                                                                                        RELATED PROJECTS
    number (on our Jive Voice cloud-based online phone system which is text-enabled) to facilitate stakeholder
    communications.
  • 24-Hour Stakeholder Availability - Acting as an extension of your team, we will serve as the primary public
    point of contact. We will respond to stakeholder questions and comments received by email, phone, social
    media or direct contact. This allows your team members to focus on their many roles and responsibilities.
    Responses will be provided within one hour if the contact is from a residence where construction is currently
    occurring and within 24 hours for all other inquires. (assumes 25 weeks at 5 hours per week)
  • *Individual and Group Stakeholder Meetings - As construction progresses, we will be available to meet on-site
    with individual property owners or groups upon request. Meeting in person helps further develop relationships
    of trust with stakeholders and allows them to express concerns while pointing out issues specific to their
    property. As necessary while COVID-19 restrictions are in place, we can substitute Zoom meetings for in-person
                                                                                                                        COST PROPOSAL




    meetings. Our team is adept at facilitating individual or group Zoom meetings. (assumes 25 meetings at 2 hours
    each, including travel)
  • Stakeholder Database - We will document all stakeholder contacts and comments and provide weekly reports
    so you’re kept in the loop. Every stakeholder interaction and formal comment will be recorded. We have a
    database system that helps to collect, analyze and report comments. (assumes 25 weeks at 1 hour per week)
  • OPTIONAL - Staff a project information booth at the Riverton Town Days event

PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLIC OUTREACH                                                                               |8
