                    FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
   RIVERTON CITY & VAIX INC. DBA SENAWAVE COMMUNICATIONS


      THIS FRANCHISE AGREEMENT (hereinafter “Agreement”) is entered into by and
between Riverton City, Utah, a municipal corporation and political subdivision of the State of
Utah (hereinafter “CITY”), with principal offices at 12830 South 1700 West, Riverton, Utah,
84065, and Vaix Inc. DBA Senawave Communications, a Utah corporation (hereinafter
“PROVIDER”) with its principal offices at 2075 S Pioneer RD Salt Lake City, UT 84104.

                                    WITNESSETH:

      WHEREAS, the PROVIDER desires to provide voice, data, or video transmission
services (“Services”) to residents and businesses in CITY (“Customers”) and in
connection therewith to establish a telecommunications network (“Network”) in, under,
along, over and across present and future rights-of-way of the CITY; and

     WHEREAS the CITY has enacted Title 12, Chapter 12.25 of the Riverton City
Municipal Code (hereinafter the “Telecommunication Rights-of-Way Ordinance”) which
governs the application and review process for Telecommunication Franchises in the CITY;
and

      WHEREAS, the CITY, in exercise of its management of public Rights-of-Way,
believes that it is in the best interest of the public to provide the PROVIDER a nonexclusive
franchise to operate a telecommunications network in the CITY.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements of
the parties contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the CITY and
the PROVIDER agree as follows:


          ARTICLE 1. FRANCHISE AGREEMENT AND ORDINANCE.

      1.1      Agreement. Upon execution by the parties, this Agreement shall be deemed to
constitute a contract by and between CITY and PROVIDER.

      1.2      Ordinance. The CITY has adopted the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Ordinance which is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by
reference. The PROVIDER acknowledges that it has had an opportunity to read and become
familiar with the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance. The parties agree that the
provisions and requirements of the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance are
material terms of this Agreement, and that each party hereby agrees to be contractually bound
to comply with the terms of the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance. The
definitions in the Telecommunications Rights-of- Way Ordinance shall apply herein unless a
different meaning is specifically indicated herein. Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to

                                          Page 1 of 11
require the PROVIDER to comply with any provision of the Telecommunications Rights-of-
Way Ordinance which is determined to be unlawful or beyond the CITY’s authority.

      1.3    Ordinance Amendments. The CITY reserves the right to amend the
Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance at any time. The CITY shall give the
PROVIDER notice and an opportunity to be heard concerning any proposed amendment to the
Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance. If there is any inconsistency between the
PROVIDER’s rights and obligations under the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance
as amended and this Agreement, the provisions of this
Agreement shall govern during its term. Otherwise, the PROVIDER agrees to comply
with any such amendments.

       1.4     Franchise Description. The Telecommunications Franchise (“Franchise”)
provided hereby shall confer upon the PROVIDER the nonexclusive right, privilege, and
franchise to own, construct, maintain, lease, use, and operate a telecommunications network
in, under, above and across the present and future public Rights-of-Way in the CITY and on
other CITY property as authorized. The Franchise does not grant to the PROVIDER the
right, privilege or authority to engage in community antenna (or cable) television business;
although, nothing contained herein shall preclude the PROVIDER from: (1) permitting those
with a cable franchise who are lawfully engaged in such business to utilize the
PROVIDER’s System within CITY for such purposes; or (2) from providing such service in
the future if an appropriate franchise is obtained and all other legal requirements have been
satisfied or (3) leasing all or a part PROVIDER’s telecommunications network to affiliates
or third parties, provided that PROVIDER maintains ownership of the telecommunications
network.

      1.5     Facilities. The Network may consist of equipment and facilities that may
include aerial strand; aerial or underground fiber optic cables, wires, lines, or strands;
underground conduits, vaults, access manholes and handholes; electronic equipment; power
generators; batteries; pedestals; boxes; cabinets; and other similar facilities (“Network
Facilities”).

     1.6      Licenses. The PROVIDER acknowledges that it has obtained the necessary
approvals, licenses or permits required by federal and state law to provide
Telecommunication services consistent with the provisions of this Agreement and with the
Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance.

       1.7     Relationship. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a joint venture or
principal-agent relationship between the parties and neither party is authorized to, nor shall
either party act toward third persons or the public in any manner that would indicate any such
relationship with each other outside the scope of this agreement.


                          ARTICLE 2. FRANCHISE FEE.

      2.1     Compensation. PROVIDER will pay CITY a fee (“Franchise Fee”) to
compensate CITY for PROVIDER’s use and occupancy of public Right-of-Way pursuant to
the Franchise. PROVIDER and CITY acknowledge and agree that the Franchise Fee provides

                                         Page 2 of 11
fair and reasonable compensation for PROVIDER’s use and occupancy of public Right-of-
Way and other CITY property as authorized. The Franchise Fee will begin accruing on the
Effective Date (as defined below) and will be calculated as follows.

      2.2    Franchise Fee. PROVIDER will pay CITY two percent (2%) (“Revenue
Percentage”) of Gross Revenues for a calendar quarter, remitted on a quarterly basis,
commencing upon the first date on which PROVIDER receives any Gross Revenues (as
defined below). Such payments are due forty- five (45) days after the end of the calendar
quarter.

      2.3      Gross Revenues. As used herein, “Gross Revenues” means all consideration of
any kind or nature, including without limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind
contributions (services or goods) received by PROVIDER from Customers for Services that
are provided to Customers through Network Facilities located at least in part in public Right-
of-Way. Gross Revenues do not include:
        i)      any revenue not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt;
        ii)     refunds, rebates, or discounts made to Customers or CITY;
        iii) revenue received from the sale of Services for resale in which the purchaser is
required to collect and remit similar fees from the purchaser’s customer;
        iv) any forgone revenue from PROVIDER’s provision of Services to
Customers at no charge if required by law;
        v)     any tax of general applicability imposed upon PROVIDER or its Customers by
CITY or by any state, federal, or any other governmental entity, and collected by PROVIDER
and remitted to the taxing entity (including but not limited to sales and use tax, gross receipts
tax, excise tax, utility users tax, public service tax, communications taxes, and fees not
imposed by this Agreement); and
        vi) any forgone revenue from PROVIDER’s provision, in PROVIDER’s discretion
or otherwise, of free or reduced cost Services to any person; provided, however, that any
forgone revenue which PROVIDER chooses not to receive in exchange for trades, barters,
services, or other items of value will be included in Gross Revenues.

       2.4      Pass Through. PROVIDER may identify and collect, as a separate item on the
regular bill of any Customer whose Services are provided through Network Facilities located
at least in part in public Right-of-Way, that customer’s pro rata amount of the Franchise Fee.

       2.5      Interest. Any payments that are due and payable under this Agreement that are
not received within fifteen (15) days from the due date will be assessed interest compounded
at the rate of 18% per annum from the due date. All sums paid with interest within thirty (30)
days of the due date shall not constitute a material breach under Article 7.

       2.6     Change in Law. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event of
a change in local, state, or federal law that (i) prohibits collection of any right-of-way access
fee from any provider of video programming or communications services, including Services,
or (ii) reduces the percentage of revenue on which the right-of-way access fee paid by any
provider of video programming or communications services is based to a percentage that is
lower than the Revenue Percentage, then PROVIDER will have no obligation to pay the
Franchise Fee or to pay a Franchise Fee based on the Revenue Percentage, as the case may be.

                                           Page 3 of 11
In the case of a reduction in the percentage of revenue on which a right-of-way access fee
may be based, the Revenue Percentage will be commensurately reduced.

      2.7      Equal Treatment. CITY agrees that if any service forming part of the base for
calculating the Franchise Fee under this Agreement is, or becomes, subject to competition
from CITY or a third party, the CITY will either impose and collect from such third party a fee
or tax on Gross Revenues from such competing service in the same percentage specified
herein, plus the percentage specified as a utility revenue tax or license fee in the then current
ordinances of the CITY, or waive collection of the fees provided for herein that are subject to
such competition.

       2.8      Audit. City may examine the business records of PROVIDER as permitted under
state or local law, but in any event only during reasonable times and following reasonable
notice, and only to the extent reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with this Article 2.
PROVIDER will keep all business records reflecting its Gross Revenues for at least two (2)
years.


                           ARTICLE 3. TERM AND RENEWAL.

       3.1       Term and Renewal. The Franchise granted to PROVIDER shall be for a period
of ten (10) years commencing on the date the last party to sign executes this Agreement
(“Effective Date”), unless this Franchise be sooner terminated as herein provided. At the end of
the initial ten (10) year term of this Agreement (the “Franchise Term”), the Franchise granted
herein may be renewed by the PROVIDER upon the same terms and conditions as contained in
this Agreement for an additional five (5) year term, by providing to the CITY’s representative
designated herein written notice of the PROVIDER’s intent to renew not less than ninety (90)
calendar days before the expiration of the initial Franchise Term.

      3.2      Rights of PROVIDER upon Expiration or Revocation. Upon expiration of the
franchise granted herein, whether by lapse of time, by agreement between the PROVIDER
and the CITY, or by revocation or forfeiture, the PROVIDER shall have the right to remove
from the Rights-of-Way any and all of its System, but in such event, it shall be the duty of the
PROVIDER, immediately upon such removal to restore the Rights-of-Way from which such
System is removed to as good condition as the same was before the removal was effected.



                        ARTICLE 4. PUBLIC USE RIGHTS.

      4.1      City Uses of Poles and Overhead Structures. The CITY shall have the right,
without cost, to use all poles owned by the PROVIDER within the CITY for fire alarms,
police signal systems, or any lawful public use; provided, however, any said uses by the
CITY shall be for activities owned, operated or used by the CITY for any public purposes
and shall not include the provision of telecommunications service to third parties.

      4.2     Limitations on Use Rights. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to
require the PROVIDER to increase pole capacity, alter the manner in which the PROVIDER

                                          Page 4 of 11
attached equipment to the poles, or alter the manner in which the PROVIDER operates and
maintains its equipment. Such CITY attachments shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with the reasonable requirements of the PROVIDER and the current National
Electrical Safety Code. CITY attachments shall be attached or installed only after written
approval by the PROVIDER, which approval will be processed in a timely manner and will
not be unreasonably withheld.

      4.3      Maintenance of CITY Facilities. The CITY’s use rights shall also be
subject to the parties reaching an agreement regarding the CITY’s maintenance of the
CITY attachments.

                          ARTICLE 5. POLICE POWERS.

       The CITY expressly reserves, and the PROVIDER expressly recognizes, the CITY’s
right and duty to adopt, from time to time, in addition to provisions herein contained, such
ordinances and rules and regulations as the CITY may deem necessary in the exercise of its
police power for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and their
properties.



        ARTICLE 6. CHANGING CONDITIONS AND SEVERABILITY.

       6.1      Meet to Confer. The PROVIDER and the CITY recognize that many aspects of
the telecommunication business are currently the subject of discussion, examination and
inquiry by different segments of the industry and affected regulatory authorities and that these
activities may ultimately result in fundamental changes in the way the PROVIDER conducts
its business and the way the CITY regulates the business. In recognition of the present state of
uncertainty respecting these matters, the PROVIDER and the CITY each agree, upon request
of the other during the term of this Agreement, to meet with the other and discuss in good faith
whether it would be appropriate, in view of developments of the kind referred to above during
the term of this Agreement, to amend this Agreement or enter into separate, mutually
satisfactory arrangements to effect a proper accommodation of any such developments.

       6.2      Severability. If any section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision of this
Agreement or the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance is for any reason determined
to be or rendered illegal, invalid, or superseded by other lawful authority, including any state
or federal, legislative, regulatory or administrative authority having jurisdiction thereof, or is
determined to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision, and such
determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other section, sentence, paragraph,
term or provision all of which shall remain in full force and effect for the term of this
Agreement or any renewal or renewals thereof. Provided that if the invalidated portion is
considered a material consideration for entering into this Agreement, the parties will negotiate,
in good faith, an amendment to this Agreement. As used herein, “material consideration” for
the CITY is its ability to collect the Franchise Fee during the term of this Agreement and its
ability to manage the Rights-of-Way in a manner similar to that provided in this Agreement,
the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance, and the City’s Excavation Permit

                                           Page 5 of 11
Ordinance. For the PROVIDER, “material consideration” is its ability to use the Rights-of-
Way for telecommunication purposes in a manner similar to that provided in this Agreement,
the Telecommunications Rights-of- Way Ordinance, and the CITY’s Excavation Permit
Ordinance.


ARTICLE 7. EARLY TERMINATION, REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE,
                  AND OTHER REMEDIES.

     7.1     Grounds for Termination. The CITY may terminate or revoke this
Agreement and all rights and privileges herein provided for any of the following reasons:

        a) The PROVIDER fails to make timely payments of the franchise fee as required
under Article 2 of this Agreement and does not correct such failure within sixty (60) calendar
days after written notice by the CITY of such failure;
        b) The PROVIDER, by act or omission, materially violates a material duty herein set
forth in any particular within the PROVIDER’s control, and with respect to which redress is
not otherwise herein provided. In such event, the CITY, acting by or through its CITY
Council, may determine, after hearing, that such failure is of a material nature, and thereupon,
after written notice giving the PROVIDER notice of such determination, the PROVIDER,
within sixty (60) calendar days of such notice, shall commence efforts to remedy the
conditions identified in the notice and shall have ninety (90) calendar days from the date it
receives notice to remedy the conditions. After the expiration of such 90-day period and
failure to correct such conditions, the CITY may declare the franchise forfeited and this
Agreement terminated, and thereupon, the PROVIDER shall have no further rights or
authority hereunder; provided, however, that any such declaration of forfeiture and
termination shall be subject to judicial review as provided by law, and provided further, that
in the event such failure is of such nature that it cannot be reasonably corrected within the 90-
day time period provided above, the CITY shall provide additional time for the reasonable
correction of such alleged failure if the reason for the noncompliance was not the intentional
or negligent act or omission of the PROVIDER; or

       c) The PROVIDER becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, is
adjudged bankrupt, or all or part of its facilities should be sold under an instrument to
secure a debt and is not redeemed by the PROVIDER within sixty (60) days.

      7.2       Reserved Rights. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to preclude the
PROVIDER from pursuing any legal or equitable rights or remedies it may have to challenge
the action of the CITY.

       7.3      Remedies at Law. In the event the PROVIDER or the CITY fails to fulfill any
of its respective obligations under this Agreement, the CITY or the PROVIDER, whichever
the case may be, shall have a breach of contract claim and remedy against the other, in
addition to any other remedy provided herein or by law; provided, however, that no remedy
that would have the effect of amending the specific provisions of this agreement shall become
effective without such action that would be necessary to formally amend the Agreement.



                                           Page 6 of 11
       7.4     Third Party Beneficiaries. The benefits and protection provided by this
Agreement shall inure solely to the benefit of the CITY and the PROVIDER. This Agreement
shall not be deemed to create any right in any person who is not a party and shall not be
construed in any respect to be a contract in whole or in part for the benefit of any third party
(other than the permitted successors and assigns of a party hereto).



                       ARTICLE 8. PARTIES’ DESIGNEES.

      8.1      CITY designee and Address. The City Manager or his or her designee(s) shall
serve as the CITY’s representative regarding administration of this Agreement. Unless
otherwise specified herein or in the Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance, all
notices from the PROVIDER to the CITY pursuant to or concerning this Agreement, shall be
delivered to the CITY’s representative at 12830 South 1700 West, Riverton, Utah 84065, or
such other officer and address as the CITY may designate by written notice to the
PROVIDER.

      8.2      PROVIDER Designee and Address. The PROVIDER’s Franchise Manager,
_______________, or his designee(s) shall serve as the PROVIDER’s representative
regarding administration of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified herein or in the
Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Ordinance, all notices from the CITY to the PROVIDER
pursuant to or concerning this Agreement, shall be delivered to PROVIDER’s designee at
____________________________________, and such other officer and address as the
PROVIDER may designate by written notice to the CITY. PROVIDER’s telephone number is
_______________________.

      8.3      Failure of Designee. The failure or omission of the CITY’s or PROVIDER’s
representative to act shall not constitute any waiver or estoppels by the CITY or PROVIDER.



              ARTICLE 9. INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.

       9.1      Insurance. Prior to commencing operations in the CITY pursuant to this
Agreement, the PROVIDER shall furnish to the CITY evidence that it has adequate general
liability and property damage insurance. The evidence may consist of a statement that the
PROVIDER is effectively self- insured if the PROVIDER has substantial financial resources,
as evidenced by its current certified financial statements and established credit rating, or
substantial assets located in the State of Utah. Any and all insurance, whether purchased by
the PROVIDER from a commercial carrier, whether provided through a self-insured program,
or whether provided in some other form or other program, shall be in a form, in an amount
and of a scope of coverage acceptable to the CITY. The parties agree that the form, amount,
and scope of coverage of the insurance policy set forth in Exhibit B hereto shall be accepted
by the CITY as fulfilling the obligations of this Article.

    9.2     Indemnification. The PROVIDER agrees to indemnify, defend and hold the
CITY harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, liens, and all liability or

                                          Page 7 of 11
damage of whatsoever kind on account of or arising from the PROVIDER’s acts or omissions
pursuant to or related to this Agreement, and to pay any and all costs, including reasonable
attorneys’ fees, incurred by the CITY in

defense of such claims. The CITY shall promptly give written notice to the PROVIDER of any
claim, demand, lien, liability, or damage, with respect to which the CITY seeks
indemnification and, unless in the CITY’s judgment a conflict of interest may exist between
the parties with respect to the claim, demand, lien, liability, or damage, the CITY shall permit
the PROVIDER to assume the defense of such with counsel of the PROVIDER’s choosing,
unless the CITY reasonably objects to such counsel. Notwithstanding any provision of this
Section to the contrary, the PROVIDER shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold
the CITY harmless to the extent any claim, demand, lien, damage, or liability arises out of or
in connection with negligent acts or omissions of the CITY or PROVIDER suffers a force
majeure event as set forth in Section 12.25.440 of the Telecommunication Rights-of-Way
Ordinance or any event necessitating the declaration of a state of emergency as described in
Section 53- 2a-101 of the Utah Code.

       9.3     Bond and surety. Except as expressly provided herein, PROVIDER shall not be
required to obtain or maintain bonds or other surety as a condition of being awarded the
Franchise or continuing its existence. The PROVIDER and the CITY recognize that the costs
associated with bonds and other surety may be ultimately borne by the subscribers in the form
of increased rates for telecommunications services. Initially, no bond or other surety will be
required. In the event that one is required in the future, the CITY agrees to give the
PROVIDER at least sixty (60) days prior written notice thereof stating the exact reason for
the requirement. Notwithstanding the above provisions, the PROVIDER shall be responsible
for standard performance bonds and insurance required for encroachment permits for work
done within Rights-of-Way.



                           ARTICLE 10. INSTALLATION.

       10.1     Coordinated Installation. In order to prevent and/or minimize the number of
cuts to and excavations within the CITY Rights-of-Way, PROVIDER shall coordinate with
the CITY and other providers or users of the CITY Rights-of-Way, when such cuts and
excavations will be made. When possible, installation, repairs, or maintenance of lines and
facilities within the CITY Rights-of-Way shall be made in the same trench and at the time
other installations, repairs or maintenance of facilities are conducted within the CITY Rights-
of-Way. The CITY will give PROVIDER a schedule of street repairs in advance of CITY
work which scheduled may be subject to change based upon funding. In addition, the CITY
will hold regular meetings with the PROVIDER to provide updates to road projects and
opportunities to share costs on burying lines.

      10.2     Underground Installation. In portions of the CITY where other utilities are
underground, PROVIDER shall construct its facilities underground. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Article 1.3 of this Agreement, PROVIDER expressly agrees to install and
maintain all of its facilities in accordance with CITY Ordinances regarding the
undergrounding of utility lines, in effect at the time this Agreement is entered into and as

                                           Page 8 of 11
subsequently amended during the term of this Agreement. PROVIDER may be permitted to
install facilities overhead if (1) it is infeasible to go underground at the time; (2) lines can be
placed on already existing poles; and (3) PROVIDER agrees to move the facilities
underground when the CITY directs and so long as the CITY, at the same time, directs other
franchises with overhead facilities in the same location to move their facilities underground.
Nothing herein shall require PROVIDER to convert existing overhead facilities to
underground facilities until and unless other similarly situated providers in the same location
are required to do so.

       10.3     Notice by developers. In case of new construction or property development
where utilities are to be placed underground, the CITY shall require the developer or
property owner to give the PROVIDER reasonable notice of not less than thirty (30) days
prior to such construction or development, of the particular date on which open trenching
will be available for PROVIDER's installation of conduit, pedestals, anchor vaults, and the
laterals to be provided at PROVIDER's expense. PROVIDER shall also provide
specifications as needed for trenching. The developer or property owner may close the
requisite trenches when (i) PROVIDER has placed the conduit and other equipment
required to provide telecommunication service, (ii) seven (7) days after the property owner
or developer has given a second written notice that the requisite trench has been opened, or
(iii) PROVIDER has waived its right in writing to place its facilities under this provision,
whichever comes sooner. Cost of trenching and easements required to bring service to the
development shall be borne by the developer or property owner.

      10.4    General Installation standards. PROVIDER shall comply with best practices
described in Exhibit “C” with the following exceptions:

      a) PROVIDER shall comply with CITY’s Trench Backfill Standard as described in
         APWA Plan 381; and shall comply with T-Patch Standards as described in APWA
         Plan 255.

      b) POVIDER shall not install any facilities requiring any sort of access box within a
         CITY sidewalk.

      c) PROVIDER shall obtain separate permission from the appropriate canal company
         before installing facilities which cross under canals, within the CITY’s public
         right of way.


                       ARTICLE 11. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

      11.1      Binding Agreement. The parties represent that: (a) when executed by their
respective parties, this Agreement shall constitute legal and binding obligations of the
parties; and (b) each party has complied with all relevant statutes, ordinances, resolutions,
by-laws and other legal requirements applicable to their operation in entering into this
Agreement.

      11.2     Utah Law. This Agreement shall be interpreted pursuant to Utah law.


                                            Page 9 of 11
      11.3     Time of Essence. Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement.

       11.4    Interpretation of Agreement. The invalidity of any portion of this Agreement
shall not prevent the remainder from being carried into effect. Whenever the context of any
provision shall require it, the singular number shall be held to include the plural number and
vice versa, and the use of any gender shall include any other and all genders. The paragraphs
and section headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and do not constitute a part
of the provisions hereof.

      11.5     No Presumption. All parties have participated in preparing this Agreement.
Therefore, the parties stipulate that any court interpreting or construing the Agreement shall
not apply the rule of construction that the Agreement should be more strictly construed
against the drafting party.

     11.6    Amendments. This Agreement may be modified or amended by written
agreement only. No oral modifications or amendments shall be effective.

      11.7     Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon the heirs,
 successors, administrators and assigns of each of the parties.
SIGNED AND ENTERED INTO this                  day of                   , 2022


RIVERTON CITY, UTAH:



      ____________________
      Trent Staggs, Mayor


ATTEST:



      ____________________
      City Recorder


VAIX INC. DBA SENAWAVE COMMUNICATIONS



      By: __________________________

      Title: _________________________



                                          Page 10 of 11
                         [Remainder of Page Intentionally left blank.]



                                   ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    ) ss
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       Before me,                     , on this day personally appeared
       , known to me to be the person whose name is subscribed to the foregoing instrument and
known to me to be a                                 of ______________ a __________
Corporation/Limited Liability Company, and acknowledged to me that he executed the said
instrument for the purposes and consideration therein expressed, on behalf of said
Corporation/Limited Liability Company.

       Given under my hand and seal of office this         day of              , 2022.


       Notary Public:

       Printed Name:

My Commission Expires:

[S E A L]




                                         Page 11 of 11
