                                               EXHIBIT B


5.15 CATASTROPHIC LEAVE
Catastrophic Leave is a voluntary program and is not a guaranteed benefit.

Who is Eligible. All employees, regardless of their length of service and employment status are eligible
to receive contributions of leave from other employees. Full-time, three-quarter time, and half-time/job
share employees who have been employed with the City at least six (6) months may donate time.

When an Employee is Eligible. An employee is eligible to receive catastrophic leave donations upon
date-of-hire. An employee can donate time after six (6) months of employment.

Benefit. The purpose of Catastrophic Leave is to permit employees to contribute a portion of their
accrued vacation leave or compensation time to another City employee, when such employee has
suffered a catastrophe injury or illness. This type of leave may also apply to an employee who is caring
for a terminally ill member of his/her family. Under hardship circumstances described below, an
employee may donate, to other employees of equal or lesser grade and step, accrued vacation or
compensation time, if donating employee will have a combined minimum of ten (10) days of accrued
vacation and compensation time left on the books, after the donation. Sick leave may be donated to
other employees of equal or lower grade and step; however, only 50% of the donated leave may be
credited to the receiving employee. After the donation, the donating employee must retain a combined
minimum balance of ten (10) days of accrued sick and no one employee can donate more than 25 hours
of sick leave from their bank per catastrophic leave event. All donations for catastrophic leaveThe
donation must be approved by the employee’s Department Head and the City Manager. The donated
leave will be allocated on an as-needed basis to the employee receiving the leave. Those donating will
have time deducted from their accrued vacation or compensation accrual balances only when the
receiving employee uses the time. If the employee receiving the donation returns to work before all
“committed” donated time is used, the donation will be returned to the employee committing the
donation without being deducted.

Listed below are the provisions of the plan:

    1. Participation is voluntary.
    2. For the purposes of this leave program, “catastrophe” shall include an illness or event which is
       monumental, unusual, unexpected, immediate in nature, and which is expected to preclude the
       employee’s returning to work for an extended period of time. The City reserves the right to
       request supporting documentation.
    3. The receiving employee must have been absent from work due to injury or illness and have
       exhausted all earned leave credits, including but not limited to sick leave, vacation leave, holiday
       leave, compensation time, executive leave, etc., and is therefore facing financial hardship.
    4. If the employee is approved for long term disability benefits, they are no longer eligible to
       receive catastrophic leave donations.
    5. The hours will be deducted from the donor’s leave, converted to dollars and used to
       compensate the recipient at the recipient’s regular rate of pay. Sick leave added to the recipient
       will first be reduced to 50% and then converted to dollars to be used.
6. Donations will be listed in the order in which the Finance Department Head receives them. For
    each pay period, a sufficient number of donor hours will be converted and used to compensate
    the recipient. Unconverted donations shall revert to the donor.
7. Donations must be in half-hour increments.
8. Donated hours are irrevocable.
9. Employees may donate vacation, or compensation, or sick time to employees at or below their
    same pay grade on the classification schedule.
10. Requests must be initiated by the employee, recommended by the Department Head, and
    receive final approval from the City Manager.
