         Riverton City Choice Awards for “Excellence in Education”
                   OQUIRRH HILLS MIDDLE SCHOOL
                                         March 3, 2020



Jessica Richards – 9th Grade Girl Student – Jessica is a 4.0 student who also has H in
citizenship in all of her classes. As a member of the National Junior Honor Society, she serves
on the council. Even though leadership is something she has never done before, this
outstanding student is willing to try something new and meet new people. Jessica is not daunted
by taking difficult classes - her schedule is full of honors and Advanced Placement classes. She
comes prepared for class and for assessments, and will come before or after school to make
sure she gets corrections done on the rare occasions she needs them. She is also a good friend
of her classmates. Jessica has great potential and we are proud to have her be part of our
Eagles' Nest.


Brandon Martin – 9th Grade Boy Student – Brandon is an outstanding student and amazing
musician. He has a 4.0 GPA and straight honors in citizenship. He is a hard worker, and a
natural leader. He is new to our school, coming from South Hills Middle School, and he has
done a wonderful job not only adjusting to a new school culture, but helping others to feel
comfortable in a new setting. Brandon plays saxophone in the Symphonic Band and the Jazz
Band, as well as having started a saxophone small ensemble from other students in our band
classes. His leadership is an asset to not only his band class, but to the school.


Ms. Jamie Buttars–Family and Consumer Sciences – Jamie Buttars is new to Oquirrh Hills
Middle School this year. From the day we hired her, she has helped us to recruit and train other
teachers - before she had even started her first day, she was making an impact. As an
administrative team, we know we can count on Ms. Buttars to support our school programs.
Jamie helps other teachers and if she sees a need, she fills it. This is a teacher who goes above
and beyond to make her class fun for her students, working hard outside of school to make fun
lessons. Building positive relationships with students is a strength for this amazing teacher. Ms.
Buttars cares about OHMS and tries to make her teaching the best for all students. She
captures student attention by using creativity and hands-on learning. Jaime is calm, kind, easy
to approach and always make every person feel important. We are so fortunate to have her here
in our Nest.
