                                  MEMORANDUM
To:               Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:             Planning Department
Date:             June 2, 2026
Subject:          Ordinance 26-12, Amending Section 9.20.010(1), Adopting Standards for the
                  Discharge of a Firearm as Part of the Firearm Manufacturing Process,
                  Amendments Proposed by Zev Technologies.


This item does not require review or recommendation by the Planning Commission.

     I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 26-12, amending Section 9.20.010, adopting
     standards for the discharge of a firearm as part of the firearm manufacturing process, as
     shown in Exhibit “A”

Background


Riverton City Code Section 9.20.010 currently prohibits the discharge of a firearm within
Riverton City limits. Zev Technologies has submitted this application to amend that section to
allow the discharge of a firearm for testing purposes during the manufacturing process. Testing
of firearms and associated equipment during the manufacturing process is typical, and staff has
reviewed the proposed language with the City Attorney’s Office and the Riverton Police
Department. Both made amendments to the proposed language, and the code before the
Council for consideration reflects the input from those offices. It should be noted that this
amendment only allows the discharge of a firearm during manufacturing under control and
permitted circumstances, and does not allow for outside or external discharge, nor for any type
of recreational, “shooting range”, or other firearm discharge.

The proposed text reads as follows:

     Discharge of a firearm or dangerous weapon as defined by statute is allowed for testing incidental to the
     manufacturing of firearms and firearm accessories, so long as discharge is conducted within an enclosed
     commercial gun clearing or bullet trap/containment facility which has been designed to accept the type of
     firearm and caliber of ammunition discharged.
          a. A firearms manufacturer must possess an active Federal Firearms License and Riverton City Business
              License for the manufacture of firearms at that facility prior to discharge of a firearm or dangerous
              weapon under § 9.20.010(1)(a).




Report by: tjp
5/27/2026
Attachments

The following items are attached:

      1. Application and applicant submittals.
      2. Proposed Amendment




Report by: tjp
5/27/2026
Proposed Amendment:

Section 9.20.010
(2) It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or shoot any firearm or dangerous weapon as defined by
    statute, BB gun, pellet gun or bow and arrow within the limits of the city, except in defense of life or property,
    or in the case of any officer in the discharge of their duty, or under specified conditions at an approved and
    licensed gun range.
         a. Discharge of a firearm or dangerous weapon as defined by statute is allowed for testing incidental to
              the manufacturing of firearms and firearm accessories, so long as discharge is conducted within an
              enclosed commercial gun clearing or bullet trap/containment facility which has been designed to
              accept the type of firearm and caliber of ammunition discharged.
                   i. A firearms manufacturer must possess an active Federal Firearms License and Riverton City
                       Business License for the manufacture of firearms at that facility prior to discharge of a firearm
                       or dangerous weapon under § 9.20.010(1)(a).




Report by: tjp
5/27/2026
