                             MEMORANDUM
 To:            Honorable Mayor and City Council
 From:          Planning Department
 Date:          November 12, 2024
 Subject:       Ordinance 24-23, Code Text Amendment Amending Riverton City Code,
                Section 2.95.060 “Organizations, actions, and recommendations” of the
                Planning, Amendments Proposed by Riverton City.


 This item is not a land use ordinance and therefore does not require review and
 recommendation by the Planning Commission.

 I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 24-23, amending Riverton City Code Chapter
 2.95.060, “Organizations, actions, and recommendations” of the Planning Commission, as
 described in Exhibit “A”.


 Background

 This is a public hearing for an amendment to Riverton City Code 2.95.060 “Organizations,
 actions, and recommendations”, of the Planning Commission, and is intended to bring the code
 up in compliance with current practices related to the Commission.

 The Planning Commission typically meets on the second and fourth Thursdays of each month.
 However, in July, November, and December, the Commission typically does not meet on the
 fourth Thursday, as that falls on or near the Pioneer Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas holidays
 respectively. This has been the practice for many years, and staff manages agenda scheduling
 to account for these. In addition, there has been situations where a meeting was not held due
 to a lack of scheduled agenda items or quorum, although that is a rare occurrence.

 It recently came to light that City Code Section 2.95.060 states that the Commission “shall”
 meet bimonthly, and when the word ‘shall’ is used it is typically interpreted to mean a mandatory
 requirement. To address this staff is proposing the following amendment:

       The planning commission shall meet bimonthly and at such other times as the planning
       commission may determinemeetings monthly, with meetings generally held on the second
       and fourth Thursdays of each month. The meeting frequency may be amended due to a need
       for joint discussion with the City Council, a lack of agenda items requiring review, proximity of
       major holidays to the meeting date, or other reasons determined by the City provided proper
       notice is provided if required..

This amendment would allow for the scheduling of Commission meetings consistent with current
practice. As this section was being reviewed, another section was identified as inconsistent with
Commission practices, as it stated that a commission member could make a dissenting
recommendation or report. While commissioners often express concerns or object to a motion of
proposed conditions both vocally and in their vote, the Commission does not make alternative or
dissenting recommendations that accompany the adopted action or recommendation of the
Commission. The amendment also addresses this by removing the reference in the code as follows:

Reports of official actions and recommendations of the planning commission shall be public and
made by the chair in writing to the governing body and shall indicate how each member of the
commission voted with respect to such action or recommendation. Any member of the commission
may also make a concurring or dissenting report or recommendation to the governing body.

 Public Notices and Response
 Notices for Zone Text Changes are published on the City’s website and State of Utah’s Noticing
 page. Direct mailers are not sent as it does not impact a single property or location.

 No public comments had been received at the time of this report.
2.95.060 Organizations, actions and recommendations.
The members of the planning commission shall adopt rules and regulations for their
organization and for the transaction of business and the conduct of their proceedings.

Reports of official actions and recommendations of the planning commission shall be public
and made by the chair in writing to the governing body and shall indicate how each member of
the commission voted with respect to such action or recommendation. Any member of the
commission may also make a concurring or dissenting report or recommendation to the
governing body.

The planning commission shall meet bimonthly and at such other times as the planning
commission may determinemeetings monthly, with meetings generally held on the second and
fourth Thursdays of each month. The meeting frequency may be amended due to a need for
joint discussion with the City Council, a lack of agenda items requiring review, proximity of
major holidays to the meeting date, or other reasons determined by the City provided proper
notice is provided if required..

A majority vote of the members present shall be required to pass or deny any measure.
