                            MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            February 16, 2021
Subject:         Text Change, Amending Sections 18.100.040(2) and 18.100.070(3), Setbacks
                 adjacent to non-compatible uses, in the PCC Zone. Amendments proposed
                 by Riverton City.



On January 14, 2021, the Planning Commission, following a public hearing, voted to
recommend approval of this proposed text change. Minutes from that meeting are
included below. The Planning Commission recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 21-06, amending Section 18.100.040(2) and
18.100.070(3), amending setbacks in the PCC Zone adjacent to non-compatible uses to a
consistent 40 feet, as shown on the attached exhibit.

Background

The PCC Zone was established and applied to large tracts of undeveloped land on the western
side of the city. At the time the ordinance was written it was unclear how the surrounding area
would develop, and certain assumptions were made regarding building standards. Much of the
surrounding area has now developed and we have approved a project in the PCC zone. With
this development the city made adjustments to the PCC Zone. This Zone Text Change would
clarify a seeming discrepancy in the PCC Zone and making the PCC Zone setbacks consistent
with setbacks in other commercial zones.

There are two section of the PCC zone that mention setbacks from residential zones. In section
18.100.040 the set back is set at 40-ft, with an additional foot for every foot in building height
where adjacent to residential uses. However, section 18.100.070 indicates the set back is set at
100-ft where adjacent to non-compatible uses. The proposed amendments will make the PCC
Zone setbacks consistent in the section itself, and with the Commercial Regional and other zones
where adjacent to residential zoning, and includes a few minor clarifications to the section titles
and building to building setbacks.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of this amendment as proposed by Riverton
City.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1. Exhibit A, showing proposed amendment
Report by: TJP
2/10/2021
Exhibit A:
18.100.040 Setbacks requirements.
(2) Side and Rear Yard Setbacks.


       (a) Compatible Land Uses. Setbacks from the property line, or between buildings of compatible
       land use where no lot line exists, shall be a minimum of 20 feet. Zero lot lines, or structures
       constructed with no setback from the side property lines, may be allowed where approved as part
       of a master site plan.


       (b) Non-Compatible Land Uses. Rear Yard Setbacks. The setback shall be a minimum 40 feet to
       property line. Where adjacent to residential zones, the minimum rear yard setback shall be one foot
       for every one foot in building height, with a minimum 40 feet. Zero lot lines, or structures
       constructed with no setback from the rear property lines, may be allowed where approved as part of
       a master site plan.

18.100.070 Development standards.
(3) Buffering Between Noncompatible Land Uses. Between noncompatible land uses, an eight-foot
masonry wall plus 10 feet of landscaping is required. No buildings shall be allowed within 100 feet of a
noncompatible zone. Special considerations may be made when the rear or side yard is adjacent to
compatible or future commercial holding zones. The landscaped strip shall include a combination of trees
and shrubs that, along with the fence, shall maintain proper screening from adjacent residential uses.
Unless otherwise specified by the city council as part of site plan approval, no land disturbance or
construction not associated with placement and installation of fencing shall be allowed prior to installation
of fencing required by ordinance or by action of the city council.




Report by: TJP
2/10/2021
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 12
January 14, 2021

       E.     ZONE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO
              THE SETBACKS IN THE PLANNED COMMERCIAL CENTER ZONE.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the matter was brought forth by staff.
It was noticed as a public hearing and published in the newspaper and on the City’s
webpage. Mr. Prestwich stated that the Commission will make a recommendation. If the
Planning Commission forwards a recommendation to the City Council, the Council would
make a legislative decision to change the laws. Mr. Prestwich presented the current City
zoning map and noted that the discussion pertained to the PCC Zone, which is south of
12600 at 4150 West. It is tucked in between Bangerter Highway and the Parkside
development, which is RM-14. On the east side of Eagle Flight Rise Road is the Riverton
Business Park. On the west, PCC comes up against residential. Mr. Prestwich stated that
there is a bit of conflict there, an ambiguity in the ordinance.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the PCC Zone was adopted around 2014. The City recognized
there was a huge field and there was no master plan. A zoning ordinance was prepared
that anticipated a large development there. Mr. Prestwich reported that master plans of the
area have been seen several times as part of the SLR development. The RM-14 area was
removed from the PCC and zoned multi-family residential. Holiday Oil has also obtained a
rezone to CR to avoid ambiguities of the PCC. Mr. Prestwich reported that there is an
ordinance with two different standards. One specifies that rear yard setbacks or side yard
setbacks from residential shall be 40 feet to the property line. The other says that whenever
the development in the PCC goes up against a non-compatible use like residential, there
must be 10 feet of landscaping plus 100 feet to the building. Staff was asking for clarification
of the 40 feet and 100 feet.

Mr. Prestwich reported that an applicant has met with staff about developing. He displayed
a rendering showing how narrow the piece becomes for the 100-foot setback to be met. No
comments were received on the item. Mr. Prestwich stated that no direct mailers were sent
because this is a zone text change. He pointed out that the units in Parkside are fairly close
to the property line. When it was approved, the applicant indicated that the property to the
east was to be developed as residential. The setbacks are now 10 or 15 feet. Mr. Prestwich
further stated that this only impacts the PCC’s west boundary unless SLR develops housing
there. Mr. Prestwich stated that it could be changed to 40 feet with 100 feet removed from
the other section. Other minor changes were identified. He noted that on a large parcel the
setbacks from building to building will be 20 feet.

Commissioner Rushton questioned whether if it was shared with the residents of Parkside if
there would be no buildings within 100 feet of where they’re built. Mr. Prestwich stated that
the change would be from 100 to 40. That is where the ambiguity lies. The ordinance has
both requirements, which are listed. With the ambiguity, an applicant could argue that it is
in his favor even if it is to the detriment of the neighbors.

Mr. Prestwich reiterated that Holiday Oil was able to do it at 40 feet because of the rezone
to CR. It would be possible for a three-story commercial building to be developed 40 feet
from the property line plus the height of the building. As soon as it gets to 41 feet, the
setback would increase. The eight-foot fencing requirement and 10-foot landscape buffer
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                          13
January 14, 2021

do not change. In response to a question raised regarding whether neighbors would be
noticed on any future rezone or site plan, Mr. Prestwich stated that they would and added
that they are looking at developing under the current zone and then doing a site plan. It
would be noticed to neighbors within 300 feet.

Chair Hartley opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Lefgren moved to recommend APPROVAL of the Zone Text Change to
Section 18.100, PCC Zone to fix setback adjoining residential zones to a minimum of
40 feet as shown on the attached exhibit. Commissioner Hansen seconded the
motion. Vote on motion: Brian Russell-Aye, Dennis Hansen-Aye, Troy Rushton-Aye,
Grant Lefgren-Aye, Chair Kent Hartley-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

There were no Decision Items.
