                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            July 20, 2021
Subject:         21-19, Amending and Updating Riverton City’s Ordinance Regulating
                 Noticing of Public Hearings, Amendments Proposed by Riverton City.


On May 27, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this proposed text
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are attached below. The Planning Commission
recommended approval of the amendment, via the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 21-19, amending Sections 118.135.020, 18.190.050,
18.215.050 Noticing for Public Hearings, as described in Exhibit “A”.

Ordinance and Issues

Public Notice to announce Public Hearings for Land-Use applications is required by state and city
code. Recent changes to the state code eliminated the need to announce public hearings by
publishing notices in the newspaper. The requirement was replaced with requirements to post
the notice on the city web-page.

The proposed text change harmonizes the city’s land-use code and brings it into conformity with
the state code as regarding method and timing of making announcements. It eliminates the
newspaper requirement, and better addresses the posting to the City’s website. It also sets the
date range for noticing consistent with State Code and makes all section of the City Code
standardized.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of this amendment, and staff concurs with that
recommendation.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
         1. Proposed Amended Noticing Text




Report by: tjp
7/13/2021
                                          Proposed City Code

18.135.020 Amendments.
     (1) The zoning map and use restrictions may be amended by the city council from time to time,
         but any amendment shall be first submitted to the planning commission for its review and
         recommendation. No proposed amendment affecting the number, shape, boundary or zoning
         classification of any zone shall be adopted unless the proposed zoning ordinance
         amendment complies with the following criteria:
             a. (1) The proposed amendment will place all property similarly situated into the same
                  zoning classification or in complementary classification.
             b. (2) That all uses permitted under the proposed zoning amendment are in the general
                  public interest and not merely in the interest of an individual or small group.
             c. (3) All uses permitted under the proposed zoning classifications amendment will be
                  appropriate in the area to be included in the proposed zoning amendment.
             d. (4) The character of the neighborhood will not be adversely affected by any use
                  permitted in the proposed zoning classifications.
             e. (5) The proposed zoning amendment is consistent with the city’s master plan.

Before adopting any amendment to this title the city council shall hold a public hearing. Notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be given by at least one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city, at least 14 days before the hearing. The cost of publication shall be paid by the
applicant for the zoning change. Labels acquired through the Salt Lake County recorder’s office for
the required notification to adjacent property owners shall be provided by the applicant, and the
applicant shall take responsibility for providing accurate and complete mailing lists.

On any property requested for rezoning (except for rezoning initiated by the city to implement
general planning objectives), the applicant shall be required to post the property in question with a
notification of rezoning which states the zone classification being requested and the time and place
of public hearing. The signs shall be obtained from the city and be posted at appropriate intervals
around the property and on all corners at least 14 days prior to the public hearing. All adjacent
property owners and all owners within 1,000 feet shall be notified 14 days prior to the date of the
hearing. Mailed notification shall comply with requirements set forth by the city. Cost and
responsibility of such posting and notification shall be borne by the applicant.

     (2) Public Notice. At least 10 days prior to the planning commission or city council meeting at
         which the proposed rezoned is scheduled for review, the planning department shall mail to
         all owners of property located within 1,000 feet of the boundary of the proposed rezone a
         written notice of the time, date, and place where the planning commission or city council will
         review and consider the proposed. In addition, a notice shall be posted on the city’s webpage
         at least 10 days prior to the public hearing. The written notice shall also advise the property
         owner that he/she has the right to be present and the right to comment on the proposed site
         plan.

     (3) The applicant will be responsible to pay fees associated with the noticing and public hearing.




Report by: tjp
7/13/2021
18.190.050 Conditional use home occupation.
(1) The planning commission will hold a public hearing for home occupation applications that meet
all of the fixed standards but are unable to meet all of the qualifications or have been referred by the
planning manager.

(2) The planning commission may deny, approve, or approve with any of the conditions included in
RCC 18.190.080, Conditional use permit required. The planning commission may also alter or waive
any of the qualifications described in RCC 18.190.070. The planning commission may not alter or
waive any of the fixed standards of RCC 18.190.060.

(3) Applications for conditional use home occupation permits will be noticed for a public hearing
before the planning commission. Notices will be sent to property owners within 300 feet of the
applicant property at least 15 10 days prior to the hearing and a notice will be published in a
local newspaper.posted on the city’s webpage.

(4) The applicant will be responsible to provide address labels and pay fees associated with the
noticing and public hearing.




18.215.050 Application.
Application shall be made by the property owner or an authorized agent on a form prescribed for this
purpose by the city. Applicants for development approval must provide complete and accurate
information regarding the specific site and the proposed use on the application. No application shall
be processed until it has been reviewed for completeness and accepted by the planning department.
Incomplete applications shall not be processed under any circumstance.

(3) Public Notice. At least 10 days prior to the planning commission meeting at which the site plan is
scheduled for review, the planning department shall mail to all owners of property located within 300
feet of the boundary of the proposed site plan a written notice of the time, date, and place where the
planning commission will review and consider the site plan proposal. In addition, a notice shall be
published at least one time in a newspaper of general circulationposted on the city’s webpage at
least 10 days prior to the planning commission public hearing. The developer shall have the sole
responsibility to provide properly addressed, stamped envelopes to the department including all
property owners within 300 feet for mailing the required notice. The written notice shall also advise
the property owner that he/she has the right to be present and the right to comment on the proposed
site plan.




Report by: tjp
7/13/2021
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               7
May 27, 2021

shown. Commissioner Brown seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission. Commissioner Breinholt was not present
for the vote.

      d.     ZONE TEXT CHANGE: RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO
             THE LAND USE CODE FOR NOTICING PUBLIC HEARINGS.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the above item involves a City-
initiated change to the zoning text. The State Land Use Code changed during the most
recent Legislative Session and they were no longer required to public notices in the
newspaper. This change will bring the City Ordinance in line with the State Code and
remove the newspaper requirement from the City Code. It came to his attention that the
note card notice has several different standards and this will harmonize it within the
Ordinance and create fluency. Rezone notices will remain for those who are 1,000 feet
from the edge of the property with all other site plans and subdivisions. Conditional uses
will remain 300 feet from the property edge. Staff will continue to provide notice on the
Utah Public Noticing website and on the City’s website. Mailings will be sent out 10 days
prior to the meeting. He noted that the Ordinance states that the applicant is required to
obtain place a notice on the property. That process has been problematic and
inconsistent and has created confusion for those visiting the site. He confirmed that they
would like to remove that requirement and rely on mailers and the City’s webpage to
provide public notice.

Commissioner Lefgren expressed support for the proposed text change and believed it
was long overdue.

There were no public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Lefgren moved to recommend APPROVAL of the proposed
amendments to Sections 118.135.020, 18.190.050, and 18.215.050 Noticing for
Public Hearings, as described. Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission. Commissioner
Breinholt was not present for the vote.

The Commission took a short break.

4.    DECISION ITEMS

      a.     AMENDED COMMERCIAL BUILDING:                  “WALMART” LOCATED AT
             13502 SOUTH HAMILTON VIEW ROAD.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the above request is for an
amended commercial building. The matter was before the Commission in April for a site
plan amendment. A rendering of the property was displayed. The arched areas were
