                                   MEMORANDUM
To:               Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:             Dustin Jensen, Applicant
Date:             May 16, 2023
Subject:          Ordinance 23-10, Proposed amendment to the M-1 (Manufacturing Light
                  Industrial) Zone, Riverton Municipal Code 18.95.010, to allow a "zero lot line"
                  setback for certain structures. Applicant – Dustin Jensen


On March 23, 2023, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this application for a
text amendment. Minutes from that meeting are attached below. The Planning Commission
recommended DENIAL, with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council DENY Ordinance 23-10, proposed amendment to Section 18.85.010,
(Manufacturing Light Industrial), allowing a zero lot line setback for certain structures.

Background

This is a request by a property owner, Dustin Jensen, to change the text in the M-1 Zone to enable him to
build storage units with a zero lot line on an existing site in that zone.

Mr. Jensen owns the carwash at 3191 West 12600 South, the carwash was built in 2004. The carwash
property is 1.52-acres and is in the M-1 Zone. The M-1 Zone has its own Table of Uses (18.95.010) and
development standards (18.95.010).       Currently there are only eleven (11) sites or about fourteen (14)
parcels that are zoned M-1. With most being on the south side of 12600 South near Castlewood Estates,
and the others on the east side of Stampin Up.

As stated in the text of the M-1 zone, the purpose of the M-1 Zone is: “To provide areas in appropriate
locations where light manufacturing, industrial processes and warehousing may be established with sensitive
relationships to adjacent agricultural, residential and commercial land uses.”

The applicant is requesting a change to the text of the Development Standards to allow a zero-lot line1
development as described in the exhibit attached to his application. The requested language for a zero-lot
line comes from existing city code found in the C-G Zone and would be applied only where structures were
being used as the perimeter enclosure of some of all of a property.




1
 The application says a request for a 10’ to 20’ setback, but also refers to the attached exhibit which is the code for a
zero-lot line. Staff talked with the applicant to determine the attached exhibit describing a zero-lot line is the
applicant’s request.


5/10/2023
            Current M-1 Setbacks                                 Proposed Amended M-1
                                                                       Setbacks


                                                           Zero lot lines, or structures constructed with
                                                           no setback from the property lines, may be
                                                           allowed for storage unit facilities where the
                                                           structure(s) are being incorporated in
                                                           perimeter fencing or enclosure of some or all
                                                           of the site. A conditional use permit in
                                                           conjunction with site plan approval is
                                                           required for zero lot line development.
                                                           Where adjacent to residential zones, criteria
                                                           for consideration may include the proposed
                                                           building height at property line and control of
                                                           runoff and drainage.




The M-1 Zone, which allows for a wide range of “light industrial” uses, has a more substantial setback
requirement for buildings adjacent to residential zoning, sixty (60) feet. The zero lot line allowance for
storage units is already in place in the City’s Commercial Regional and Commercial Gateway zones, and
has proven effective for developments in those zones that were exclusively storage unit facilities. The
applicant is proposing this amendment to incorporate a row of storage units along the south side of an
existing car wash property within the M-1 zone. The Planning Commission in their review of the application
voted to recommend denial. Staff concurs with that recommendation, in part as the zero lot line, or even
reduced building setback, is more appropriate in the above mentioned commercial zones, and in situations
where a property is being developed exclusively as a storage unit facility.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

    1. Application page.
    2. Exhibit containing the proposed Zero-lot line language.
    3. Zoning Area map showing M-1 Zone area.




5/10/2023
            M-1




                  M-1




5/10/2023
            M-1




                  M-1




3/20/2023
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
March 23, 2023


       8.     The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval from the Planning
              Commission prior to any construction commencing on the subdivision.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Rushton. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       C.     M-1 USES, CODE TEXT AMENDMENT, PLZ-23-5004, A PROPOSAL TO
              AMEND THE PERMITTED USES IN THE M-1 (MANUFACTURING LIGHT
              INDUSTRIAL) ZONE, RIVERTON MUNICIPAL CODE 18.95.010, TO
              ALLOW STORAGE UNITS. APPLICANT - DUSTIN JENSEN.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the above matter will go to the City Council for a final decision
and will change City Code. It is similar to a rezone. The decision will impact the M-1 Zone.
A text change is being proposed by Dustin Jensen who has worked with staff to implement
language from the C-G Zone. It allows for a zero lot line or for a structure to be constructed
with no setbacks from the property line for storage unit facilities where the structures are
being incorporated in perimeter fencing or enclosure of some or all of the site. A Conditional
Use Permit in conjunction with site plan approval is required for zero lot line development.
Where adjacent to residential zones, criteria for consideration may include the proposed
building height and property line control of runoff and drainage.

A rendering of the subject property was displayed. The applicant is interested in developing
storage units along the fence line where people could pull in to utilize more of his property.
Mr. Jensen would like to amend the M-1 standards. Currently, the setbacks in the M-1 Zone
call for commercial and industrial buildings to be located no closer to residential district
boundaries of 60 feet. Side yards adjoining each residential use shall be no less than the
height of the building but no less than 50 feet. The intent was to place the storage units on
the property line with the back side of the storage unit acting as the fence to separate the
properties.

The zoning map was displayed and showed areas of the City that are zoned M-1. The
difference between a rezone and a zone text change was described. Procedural issues
were discussed. It was noted that the Manufacturing/Light Industrial Zone is to provide areas
and appropriate locations where light manufacturing, industrial processes, and warehousing
may be established with sensitive relationships to adjacent agricultural, residential, and
commercial land uses. The question tonight was if a zero lot line with an architectural wall
acting as the fence meets the purpose and intent of the Manufacturing Zone. It was noted
that there are instances where storage units are adjacent to residential properties.

Commissioner Rushton referenced the aerial map and identified areas where a zero-lot line
would be appropriate. Mr. Prestwich addressed height and was of the understanding that
the maximum height in the M-1 Zone is 50 feet. Commissioner Rushton asked if that would
be considered with no notice to the neighbors. Possible options available to the applicant
were discussed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  6
March 23, 2023

Commissioner Matheson reported that he owns some farmland and if someone proposed to
put something next to his property he would be happy because it would provide a fence to
keep his horses in. He has seen nice homes going in in the area and feels it is wrong to
consider proceeding in instances where neighbors have no input. He expressed strong
opposition to the proposed change.

Commissioner Cannon felt that the proposed change would infringe on the personal property
rights of residents.

Chair Gilchrist stated that while the storage unit land use is not necessarily light industrial,
perhaps the storage unit would be more acceptable with a zero lot line. The point of the M-1
Zone is to allow light industrial land uses with appropriate setbacks adjacent to residential,
other commercial, and agricultural areas. He shared the opinion of Commissioners
Matheson and Cannon.

The applicant’s representative, David Mortensen, from Civil Science was present and stated
that the proposed setback is 10 or 20 feet. He is proposing to develop RV storage units on
the property. He is unable to use the east line because there is a 50-foot easement. While
the applicant does not need a height of 50 feet, he would like to have as much height as
possible. Access would be along the west side.

Commissioner Cluff asked Mr. Mortensen if the storage will be accessed through the car
wash parking lot. Mr. Mortensen confirmed that it would be through the west side.
Mr. Prestwich clarified that if the zone text change were approved the request would have
to be reviewed again by the Planning Commission for site plan approval.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Chair Gilchrist commented that it seems strange to consider amending the Land Use
Ordinance for one applicant. Mr. Carter explained that anyone has the right to petition the
Planning Commission and request an Amendment to the Land Use Ordinance. An applicant
pays the fee and has the right to have the matter vetted before the Planning Commission
and City Council.

Commissioner Cluff commented that currently the setback is 50 feet and asked about the
logic behind that. Mr. Prestwich responded that the M-1 Zone is an old zone and it has not
been updated as frequently as some of the other zones. Because different uses are allowed
in the area, the thought was to pull them back even further from a property line. There is
also a building height limit of up to 50 feet in the zone. He commented that changing the
setbacks across all properties for all uses could be dangerous. The storage units
themselves may be different at 10 or 20 feet with a max height.

Mr. Carter explained that the concept of the zero lot line and storage units came up to make
a project work off of Redwood Road. There have not been many since then but they have
been problematic at times. It is a touchy subject in this circumstance where a change to the
M-1 zone after residential properties have moved in next to it.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
March 23, 2023


Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL of
the requested amendment to the M-1 Zone due to the following:

       1.     Incompatibility with the stated applicant’s zero lot line and residential.

       2.     It is concerning to see a specific text amendment for a specific property
              as there is no notice required to the surrounding property owners.

       3.     In the existing M-1 Zone, there have been a number of projects that went
              through due process.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Matheson.            Vote on motion:
Commissioner Matheson-Aye, Commissioner Rushton-Aye, Commissioner Cluff-
Aye, Commissioner Cannon-Aye, Chair Gilchrist-Nay. The motion passed 4-to-1.

       D.     COMMERCIAL USES, CODE TEXT AMENDMENT, PLZ-23-5003,
              PROPOSES AMENDMENTS TO 18.65, 18.70, 18.75, 18.80, 18.85, AND
              18.100 TO REMOVE LANGUAGE ADDRESSING COMMERCIAL USES IN
              EACH ZONE AND DEFER TO THE TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES.
              APPLICANT - RIVERTON CITY.

Ms. Halversen reported that the above matter came before the Planning Commission
previously at which time they were asked to recommend an amendment to the Table of
Commercial Uses. There is a lot of confusion when people ask if certain uses are allowed
in specific zones. There are also often conflicts between the Table of Uses and the written
text. The Code specifies that the written text takes precedence over the tables in the event
of a conflict. What was done last month was to combine the two Tables of Commercial
Uses. There was one for all of the zones with the exception of the PCC. The Planning
Commission recommended they combine the two tables.

The next step is to eliminate all references to commercial uses in each commercial zone
description. In the Downtown Commercial Zone, the two tables of commercial uses were
combined into one but there is still the written text, which supersedes the table that was
approved. The written text still calls out various uses as being permitted or conditional. Staff
proposed to strike all instances in all zones and replace it with alternative language.

Chair Gilchrist asked about storage units and referenced the previous matter addressed by
the Commission. His understanding was that because it is the M-1 Zone and not CG, it
would have been permitted. Ms. Halversen stated that it would have been permitted or
conditional depending on the location.

The proposed changes were presented. Commissioner Cluff referenced the conditional
uses being stricken in the Commercial Neighborhood Zone and stated that they have
temporary and seasonal uses. She did not see a comparable to that in the table.
Ms. Halversen reported that they updated the table and condensed the contents.
