                                       Chapter 8.45
                                   PROHIBITED CAMPING

8.45.010 Definitions
(1) “To Camp” means to set up or to remain in or at a campsite.
(2) “Campsite” means any place where bedding, sleeping bag, or other material used for bedding
purposes, or any stove or fire is placed, established, or maintained for the purpose of maintaining
a temporary place to live, whether or not such place incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to,
shack, or any other structure, or any vehicle or part thereof.
(3) “Personal property” means for the purposes of this Chapter, any item reasonably recognizable
as belonging to a person and having apparent utility or monetary value.


8.45.020 Camping Prohibited
(1) No person may occupy a campsite in or upon any sidewalk, street, alley, lane, public right of
way, park, bench, or any other publicly-owned property or under any bridge or viaduct, unless (i)
otherwise specifically authorized by this Code, (ii) by a formal declaration of the City Manager
in emergency circumstances, or (iii) subject to subsection (2), the Riverton City Council passes a
Resolution which exempts a special event from the prohibitions in this Chapter.
       (a) The City Council may grant an exemption only if the Council finds that such
       exemption is in the public interest and consistent with Council goals and notices.
       (b) The City Council may impose any reasonable condition upon an exemption to
       mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed camping special
       event.
(2) Any applicant seeking an exemption to this Chapter may be required to provide evidence of
adequate insurance coverage and agree to indemnify the City for any liability, damage or
expense incurred by the City as a result.
(3) Any exemption shall specify the exact dates and location covered by the exemption.
(4) Violation of this Section is considered a nuisance and punishable as a class B misdemeanor.


8.45.030 Removal of Campsite on Public Property
(1) Upon discovery of a campsite on public property, removal of the campsite by the Riverton
Police Department may occur under the following conditions:
        (a) Prior to removing the campsite, the City shall post a notice, 24-hours in advance.
        (b) At the time a 24-hour notice is posted, the City shall inform a local agency (delivering
        social services to homeless individuals) of the location of the campsite.
        (c) After the 24-hour notice period has passed, the Riverton Police Department is
        authorized to remove the campsite and all personal property related thereto.
(2) Upon the completion of conditions in subsection (1) of this Section, by an authorized
official of the Riverton Police Department, Personal Property having no apparent utility or
monetary value and items in an unsanitary condition may be immediately discarded. Weapons,
drug paraphernalia, items appearing to be stolen, and evidence of a crime may be retained as
evidence by the Riverton Police Department until an alternate disposition is determined. All
personal property removed from the campsite which is not retained, disposed of, or held as
evidence (as provided herein) shall be stored by the Riverton Police Department for a department
of 30 days, during which time it shall be reasonably available for and released to an individual
confirming ownership.


8-45-040 Mitigation
(1) Upon conviction for a violation of this Chapter, in addition to any other factors deemed
appropriate by the Court, the Court shall consider in mitigation whether or not the person
immediately removed all personal property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans,
and garbage from the campsite after being informed it was in violation of the law.
