                                      City Council Meeting Agenda
                                              June 3, 2025


PRESENTER:                Jason Lethbridge

                          Ordinance No. 25-18 - “Priority Builders Rezone,” General Plan Amendment
                          and Rezone of approximately 4.28-acres located near the northwest corner of
                          11800 South and Redwood Road. Changing the General Plan Designation to
ITEM:
                          High Density Residential and the zoning to RM-8, a multi-family residential
                          zone up to 8 dwelling units per acre. Applicant- Scott Yermish of Priority
                          Builders - Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director

SUMMARY:

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant, Scott Yermish representing
Priority Builders. This request covers multiple parcels which have multiple General Plan Designations
and multiple Zoning Designations. If approved, this application would place all the subject property in
the same General Plan Designation and the same Zone.
The subject property is approximately 4.28-acres located near the northwest corner of 11800 South and
Redwood Road with frontage on each road.
The requested RM-8 Zone allows for a maximum density of eight dwelling units per acre. Permitted
uses in the RM-8 Zone include Condos, Townhomes (attached or detached), Residential planned
developments, parks, open space, and household pets.
The applicant describes his proposed use on the property as “Townhome Community that mimics plans
from the adjoining townhome subdivisions to the northwest and south

FISCAL IMPACT:            NA

FUNDING SOURCE:           NA

ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance No. 25-18 - Priority Builders Rezone Ordinance.pdf
25-18 Priority Builders Rezone CC Staff Report.pdf

RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:

On May 8, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this application. The Commission at
that hearing voted to recommend approval, with the addition of an SD designation limiting use on the
property to “townhomes” only. The Commission recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 25-18, “Priority Builders Rezone,” changing the General Plan
Designation to Medium High Density Residential (5-8 du/acre) and Rezoning the subject properties to
RM-8 (multi-family residential, 8 du/acre) for properties located at the northwest corner of 11800 South
Redwood Road and shown on the attached map, with a Specific Development Designation limiting the
                                                                                                           1
development to “townhomes” only, as described in Exhibit “A”.




                                                                2
