                                       MEMORANDUM
To:                 Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:               Planning Department
Date:               July 18, 2023
Subject:            23-13, Text Amendment, Amendment to the Riverton City Code Section
                    18.(20,25,30,35,40).050.9, Amending the total allowed lot coverage in single-family
                    residential zones, and amending Section 18.05.030 Definitions, excluding pools from
                    coverage calculations. Amendments proposed by Riverton City.


On May 11, 2023, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider this Code amendment.
Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission recommended approval,
with the following suggested motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 23-13, amending Sections 18.(20,25,30,35,40).050.9 to
change maximum lot coverage in single-family zones from 30 to 40%, and amending section 18.05.030,
to exclude pools from the calculation of building coverage on a property, as described herein.


Background

Riverton City code sections for single-family residential lots currently sets the maximum coverage, the area
of the property that can be taken up by structures, at thirty (30) percent of the total lot area. This includes
the home footprint, and all accessory structures. City Code also currently includes swimming pools in the
definition of “structure” and so the area of a swimming pool counts towards that maximum coverage area.
The coverage limitation is to the footprint of the structures only, not to total square footage.

At the request of the City Council, staff looked into the basis for both the current maximum coverage
allowance and the inclusion of swimming pools in that calculation. At the state and local levels, reduction
of irrigated landscaping areas is being encouraged, and increasing the allowed coverage area is one way
to address the issue. In a comparison with surrounding and similarly sized cities, Riverton City’s maximum
coverage area requirement was one of the most restrictive. That comparison indicated a 40% maximum
coverage was more consistent across jurisdictions, and that Riverton City was the only City that currently
included swimming pool area in that allowance. At a work session discussion, the City Council directed
staff to prepare and process a code amendment proposing the increase to 40% coverage, and removing
swimming pools from that calculation.

The amendment changes the “Building Coverage” section of each single-family zone as shown below,
increasing the coverage to 40%. It also amends the definition of “structure” found in 18.05.030, Definition
of Terms, to indicate that pool area is not included in the calculation of building coverage. The Planning
Commission voted in their review to recommend approval of the amendments. Staff will present additional
information at the hearing.

Attachments:
      1.  Proposed Text Amendments
      2.  Summary of comparison data


Report by: JSL
7/13/2023
18.05.030 Definition of terms.

“Structure” means anything constructed or erected either above or below ground, which
requires location on the ground attached to something having a location on the ground. For the
purpose of calculating the total allowed building coverage of a single-family lot, swimming pools
are not considered a structure or building.



18.20.050 Density and lot regulations.

(9) Building Coverage. Lots in the R-1 zone shall have a lot coverage of no more than 30 forty
(40) percent.

This change shall be made to the corresponding “Building Coverage” line in the following sections:

    •   18.20.050(9) - R-1 Zone
    •   18.25.050(9) - RR-22 Zone
    •   18.30.050(9) - R-2 Zone
    •   18.35.050(9) - R-3 Zone
    •   18.40.050(9) - R-4 Zone
    •   18.45.050(9) - RM-6 Zone
Current Ordinance
• Maximum Lot Coverage: 30% of Lot Area
   • “Building Coverage. Lots in the R-4 zone shall have a lot coverage of no more than 30
     percent.”
   • “Building” means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls”
   • Special Districts (Western Springs, Monarch, etc) regulated by those ordinances.
• Total Accessory Structure Area: 10% of Lot Area
   • Maximum Size. “[T]he maximum total size of all accessory structure(s) on any parcel
     shall be limited to 10 percent of the total lot area”
   • Swimming pools: “Structure” means anything constructed or erected either above or
     below ground”



rivertonutah.gov
Other Cities
City                          Coverage Limitation            Notes
Riverton City                 30%                            Includes pools, not pavement
Herriman                      50%                            Pavement/pools not counted
South Jordan                  40% (50%+ in higher density)   Pavement/pools not counted
Draper                        40-45% based on zone           Pavement/pools not counted
Bluffdale                     30% (40% where ≤10,000sf)      Pavement/pools not counted
Sandy                         40-50%                         Includes impervious surface & all
                                                             structures but pools


         Recommended Amendment: 40%, with swimming pools and pavement excluded



rivertonutah.gov
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             8
May 11, 2023

there would need to be a fair and equitable agreement. There had been a lot of previous
discussions about this matter.

Commissioner Matheson wanted to know if UDOT would do anything to make the area look
better. Mr. Lethbridge was not aware of any plans to do so at the current time.
Commissioner Park asked if UDOT was under the same code enforcement requirements for
weed mitigation that others were. It was noted that UDOT is a property owner like anyone
else. The standard of maintenance was to at least knock the weeds down. UDOT was not
entitled to any different treatment. With more eyes on the property, there would likely be
more response from UDOT to address complaints and take mitigation efforts. The City
would also continue to explore ways to improve the situation.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-22-
8011, “Sycamore Glen Townhomes,” Final Site Plan, with the following conditions:

      1.     Address any outstanding Riverton City Staff redline comments on the
             plans.

      2.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations comply with Riverton City
             Standards and Ordinances and with the recommendations of the
             Riverton City Engineering Division, including a storm drain system to
             control runoff generated from this phase of the development.

      3.     The applicant must obtain any necessary approvals or permits from
             applicable outside agencies or jurisdictions.

      4.     Any necessary easements or agreements on the property be recorded
             with the Salt Lake County Recorder.

      5.     Maple Brook Lane shall be a private street with private maintenance
             provided by the HOA, and signage for “No Parking,” according to Fire
             Code.

      6.     Perimeter fencing to be installed as shown on the plans and described
             in this report, prior to Building Permits being issued for the property.

      7.     The HOA shall be responsible to maintain the common and open space
             parcels within the subdivision.

Commissioner Cannon seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      C.     "LOT COVERAGE CODE TEXT AMENDMENT," PLZ-23-5005, AN
             AMENDMENT TO RIVERTON CITY CODE REGULATING THE TOTAL
             BUILDING FOOTPRINT COVERAGE ON SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
             LOTS. APPLICANT - RIVERTON CITY
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 9
May 11, 2023

Mr. Lethbridge reported that Code Amendments come before the Planning Commission in
several different ways. Sometimes, the amendments are initiated by an applicant who is
seeking a code change. Other times, Staff brings them forward as an issue that has been
recognized. In this instance, the City Council has been discussing an amendment. It
pertained to the Lot Coverage Standard, which is the maximum percentage of each lot that
can be covered by buildings or structures. The current ordinance in the single-family zones
allow for 30% lot area coverage. That includes the home footprint and accessory structures.
City Code also includes swimming pools in the definition of “structure.” As a result, the area
of a swimming pool currently counts toward that maximum coverage area.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the current definition of structure is anything constructed or
erected above or below ground. That had been consistently interpreted to include swimming
pools. When the 10% calculation was done for accessory structures, the swimming pool
calculation was considered. That counted toward the allowed 10%. He shared an example
image with the Commission. Measurements are down to the foundation. The home is
measured from the property line to the foundation of the home. For any kind of deck or other
accessory structures that are supported by posts, the measurement was done to the support
structure.

The City Council started to discuss the Lot Coverage Standard in part because of some of
the waterwise landscaping and water use reduction that had been mandated by the State
and had been encouraged by the City. There was concern that by limiting the footprint on
the property, additional lawn space was being forced in some circumstances. At the request
of the Council, City Staff looked at the standards in other cities. In looking at surrounding
and similarly-sized cities, Riverton City's maximum coverage area requirement was one of
the most restrictive. Based on the comparisons, 40% maximum coverage is a median
number. In addition, Riverton was the only place that counts swimming pools in the
calculation for accessory structures. As a result, the City Council directed City Staff to
prepare a code amendment that proposed an increase to 40% coverage and removed
swimming pools from the calculation. The amendments were in the Meeting Materials
Packet, which included changes to the Building Coverage section and an amendment to the
definition of “structure,” which was in 18.05.030 and would remove swimming pools.

Mr. Lethbridge noted that there was more expansion happening in the City, with the
allowance of Accessory Dwelling Units (“ADU”) and infill development. The 30% to 40%
increase in the square footage would reduce the landscaped area and allow for additional
home expansion. This would be proportional to the lot size, which meant that the additional
10% would have less of an impact on a one-quarter acre lot and more of an impact on the
higher acreage sizes. The matter was coming to the Planning Commission for consideration
and a recommendation to the City Council. A sample motion was shared.

Chair Gilchrist wondered if Staff anticipated that this amendment would lead to
developments with larger homes on smaller lots. Mr. Lethbridge referenced some of the
special districts that had smaller lots. The City was already seeing larger homes on smaller
lots, so the impact of this would likely relate more to additions. He explained that this
amendment would not apply to the special districts. It would mostly impact the infill projects.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                10
May 11, 2023

That being said, the change would allow larger homes on smaller lots. Chair Gilchrist noted
that future developments may not necessarily need to be in a special district.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the setbacks would continue to work if the amendments
were made. Mr. Lethbridge explained that it would depend on the lot. The setbacks are the
other constraint that would determine how much of a property could be covered by
structures. There was no suggestion that the setbacks be amended as that could lead to
additional impacts on surrounding properties. With the proposed amendments, there would
be more allowance but there would not be impacts on the surrounding properties.
Commissioner Rushton wanted to know whether City Staff felt the need to change the
setbacks in conjunction with the lot coverage amendments.             This was denied.
Mr. Lethbridge explained that setbacks could be monitored. If the amendment moved
forward and there were situations where residents or builders were having issues, the
setbacks could be considered at that time. It made sense to ease into that and see what
happened with the 40% lot coverage before the City considered reducing the setbacks.

Commissioner Rushton noted that most of the small lot developments the Commission had
seen recently related to senior housing, which had a Homeowners Association (“HOA”). He
wanted to know whether the ordinance would require the HOA to allow that percentage of
coverage in the lots or if the HOA could determine that it should be less. Mr. Lethbridge
reported that an HOA could not allow something that the City Code did not allow, but an
HOA could place some restrictions on the lots, as long as those restrictions were not less
restrictive than the Riverton City Code. Mr. Carter confirmed this. HOAs might impose
standards that were not in City Code if they had the ability to enforce them. Cities did not
enforce regulations that HOA may have placed on their properties.

Mr. Lethbridge believed that with the proposed amendments, there would be more impact
caused by the change to the “structure” definition. There was an increase in the number of
swimming pools in the City and an increase in the number of situations where residents were
not able to accommodate the pool they wanted to have because of the current limitations.
The swimming pool change would create some more immediate changes in terms of what
residents were able to build on their properties.

Commissioner Park asked if this would apply to both new construction and existing homes
that were looking to expand. This was confirmed. It would apply to all of the single-family
zones in the City and it was not specific to new construction. Commissioner Cluff asked for
clarification about the current ordinance slide. It specified 10% of the lot area for accessory
structures. She asked if that would be changed. Mr. Lethbridge clarified that it would not
be changed. It was included because it was relevant to the swimming pool calculation. That
10% would remain the same and was not part of this proposal. The amendment from 30%
to 40% addressed the overall lot coverage. Commissioner Cluff believed this meant a
homeowner could not build an oversized ADU, but the homeowner could expand the size of
their primary dwelling. Mr. Lethbridge confirmed this.

Commissioner Matheson supported the proposed amendments. However, as larger
structures are placed on lots and the amount of grass is reduced, he wondered if there would
be more heat production. Mr. Lethbridge explained that the State was looking into ways to
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                11
May 11, 2023

save water and conserve. The flip side was that the heat island effect could increase. As a
result, it was important to find the right balance as changes were made.

Commissioner Cannon asked about the height requirement of an accessory dwelling garage
as well as the exterior and how it needs to be compatible with the primary residence.
Mr. Lethbridge reported that there are two height thresholds in terms of accessory
structures. The first was 20 feet and that could be within five feet of the property line. When
it is above 20 feet it can be as high as 25 feet, but the distance from the property line
increased. The exterior materials on an accessory structure were limited to materials that
were present on the primary structure. For instance, if the home was stucco and siding,
those were the materials that could be used on the accessory structure.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of the proposed amendments to Sections 18 (20, 25, 30, 35, 40).050.9,
amending the maximum lot coverage in single-family zones from 30% to 40%, and
amending section 18.05.030, excluding pools from the calculation of building
coverage on a property, as described herein. Commissioner Cluff seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

       D.     "PRO LAWN MAINTENANCE," PLZ-23-2019, AN APPLICATION FOR A
              CONDITIONAL USE HOME OCCUPATION LANDSCAPING COMPANY
              LOCATED AT 1871 WEST GRASSY KNOLL COURT. APPLICANT -
              LAMAR ELISON.

Chair Gilchrist reported that public notices were mailed to neighbors for the item but it would
not be heard tonight. Notices would be resent.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

       A.     None.

4.     DISCUSSION ITEMS

       B.     Planning Commission Training by Ryan Carter.

Mr. Carter provided follow-up training from the training the Commissioners received several
months earlier from Craig Hall, where information about public clamor was shared.
Mr. Carter explained that he would share an example of when public clamor and the resulting
decision-making collide with Federal Law. In this instance, the Federal Law being discussed
was the Federal Fair Housing Act. The Federal Fair Housing Act was written in a way to
protect everyone. It prevents people from using housing decisions to discriminate against
people based on gender, race, age, and other factors.
