                                           Legislative Copy




2.105.010 Compensation and salaries.

(1) The salary of the elected o icials, o icers and employees of this city shall be paid according to
salary grades and ranges in the amount as is below speciﬁed.:

        (a) Mayor: 25 percent of the mid-range of the salary for a grade 20 employee;

        (b) Council member: 15 percent of the mid-range of the salary for a grade 20 employee..

(1) Compensation Schedule. The compensation of elected o icials, o icers, justice court judges,
and all other employees of the city shall be according to the compensation schedule adopted by
the city council and in compliance with Utah Code §10-3-818 or successor statute. Amendments
or adjustments to the compensation schedule shall be conducted as part of the ordinary budgeting
process, or in the event an employment position is in need of a market adjustment as determined
by the Human Resources Department, and provided that budgeted funds are available to conduct a
market adjustment. The amounts adopted under the compensation schedule do not include other
compensation, such as retirement, medical beneﬁts, or other compensatory items as approved by
the city. These other amounts shall be included in the calculation of total compensation as part of
the market study. Increases in compensation shall be given according to the annual market study
conducted pursuant to the Personnel Policy and Procedures Manual. Also, annual incremental
increases may be given based on merit, as provided in the Personnel Policy and Procedures
Manual.



(2) If the mayor or any council member misses more than four regularly set administrative meetings
or council meetings, per calendar year, a deduction of $100.00, per meeting missed, shall be taken
from the monthly salary of the mayor or any council member missing the meeting.

(3) For purposes of subsection (2) of this section, a “missed meeting” means nonattendance at
more than 20 percent of the total time in the administrative session, or nonattendance at more than
20 percent of the total time spent in the council meeting.

(4) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, no council member’s or mayor’s salary
shall be reduced below $100.00 per month.

(5) In addition to the salary paid the o icers and employees of this city, they shall receive the
following beneﬁts:

        (a) The employee’s share of the Social Security tax.

        (b) Health and accident insurance for themselves and their families on such basis and cost
        to the employee or o icer as the city council may from time to time establish by resolution.
       (c) Vacation and sick leave on such basis as the city council may from time to time establish
       by resolution.

       (d) Participation in the Utah State Retirement Program on such basis and cost as the city
       council may from time to time by resolution establish.

(6) Whenever any person serves in two or more positions either as o icers or employees of this city,
unless otherwise speciﬁcally provided in the employment agreement, by ordinance or resolution,
the person shall receive the salary or compensation of the o ice or employment paying the greater
amount.

(7) Compensation Schedule. The compensation of statutory o icers, justice court judges, and all
other employees of the city shall be according to the compensation schedule attached to the
ordinance codiﬁed in this section. The amounts do not include other compensation, such as
retirement, medical beneﬁts, or other compensatory items as approved by the city. These other
amounts shall be included in the calculation of total compensation as part of the market study.
Increases in compensation shall be given according to the annual market study conducted
pursuant to the Personnel Policy and Procedures Manual. Also, annual incremental increases may
be given based on merit, as provided in the Personnel Policy and Procedures Manual.
