                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            November 17, 2020
Subject:         Zone Text Change- Approving a Text Amendment to Chapter 18.135
                 regarding the required distance separating agricultural animals from other
                 land uses - Riverton City, Applicant - Jason Lethbridge, Development
                 Services Director


On September 10, 2020, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this
proposed text change. At that meeting, the Commission voted to recommend APPROVAL
of this text amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning
Commission recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 20-28, amending Sections 18.135.090 regarding
structures for keeping animals or fowl, as shown in Exhibit “A”.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Zoning Text Change proposed by Riverton City. This Zone Text
Change is designed to eliminate an ambiguity and potential ordinance conflict in the existing code.

The conflict was identified when the Legal Department was asked to investigate a complaint about
animals in an RR-22 zone. The RR-22 Zone comes with animal rights and includes requirements
for where animals may be kept in relation to residential structures.
       General Regulations 18.135.090                        RR-22 Zone 18.25.110 (2)
               Animals and Fowl                                    Farm Animals
 No agricultural animals shall be kept or Keeping of Farm Animals. No agricultural
 maintained within 75 feet of any dwelling nor animals shall be kept within 40 feet of any
 shall any such animal be kept or maintained residential dwelling. No structure for the
 within 40 feet of any zone district boundary keeping of agricultural animals or fowl shall be
 that prohibits such use. No coop or shelter for constructed or maintained within 40 feet of a
 keeping of agricultural fowl shall be residential dwelling.
 constructed or maintained within 75 feet of a
 dwelling nor 40 feet of a zone district boundary
 which prohibits such use.

Staff is recommending adjusting the ordinance to make all set-backs a consistent 40-ft from a
residential dwelling to agriculture animals or animal structures.



Report by: TJP
11/11/2020
Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Code changes for:
           a. 18.135.090




                 Proposed Changes to Agriculture Structures

18.135.090 Animals and Fowl
No agricultural animals shall be kept or maintained within 75 feet of any dwelling nor shall any such animal
be kept or maintained within 40 feet of any zone district boundary that prohibits such use. No coop or shelter
for keeping of agricultural fowl shall be constructed or maintained within 75 feet of a dwelling nor 40 feet of
a zone district boundary which prohibits such use.

No agricultural animals or fowl shall be kept within 40 feet of any residential dwelling. No structure for the
keeping of agricultural animals or fowl shall be constructed or maintained within 40 feet of a residential
dwelling.




Report by: TJP
11/11/2020
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
September 10, 2020

              Riverton City Standards and ordinances, and with                            the
              recommendations of the Riverton City Engineering Division.
       3.     The applicant shall complete a Long-Term Stormwater Management
              Plan or Storm Water Maintenance Plan according to Riverton City
              standards and ordinances.
       4.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
              construction or grading on the site.
       5.     The site and structures comply with any and all applicable Riverton
              City standards and ordinances, including the International Building
              and Fire Codes.
       6.     The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.
       7.     The private lane shall be a minimum 25-foot paved width and a
              minimum 30-foot easement width.
       8.     According to the Conditional Use Permit PLZ-19-2030, the north and
              east property lines may keep the existing fences in place. The south
              property line shall keep the existing fence in place and install a new
              six-foot reinforced vinyl fence north of and parallel to the existing
              fence.
       9.     Fencing improvements must be completed prior to issuance of
              building permits.
       10.    Building permits may be issued before the lane is paved if the Fire
              Department believes there is adequate access and fire protection, but
              no house may have a final inspection or receive a certificate of
              occupancy until the lane is paved and other improvements are
              complete.

Commissioner Hansen seconded the motion.

It was clarified that the reinforced vinyl fencing will be installed before construction
commences to allow staff to inspect it and ensure that it meets the definition of what was
granted previously. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the building permits will not be issued until
the fencing is inspected.

Vote on motion: Brian Russell-Aye, Dennis Hansen-Aye, Ed James-Nay, Troy
Rushton-Aye, Gary Cannon-Aye. The motion passed 4-to-1.

2.     ZONE TEXT CHANGE, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO TITLE 18
       REGARDING DISTANCES FROM RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS TO STRUCTURES
       FOR KEEPING ANIMALS.

Mr. Prestwich reported that a complaint was received from a neighbor regarding chickens
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  5
September 10, 2020

that were being kept on a neighboring property. Code enforcement visited the site and
discovered that there is a conflict regarding how far animals or an animal shed can be from
the home or zoning boundary. The ordinance requires it be 40 feet from a dwelling. The
General Regulations specify that no agricultural animals may be kept or maintained within
75 feet of a dwelling or kept within 40 feet of any zoning district that prohibits such use.
Mr. Prestwich explained that if there is a conflict, staff can only enforce the requirement that
is the least burdensome on the owner.

The proposed change would specify that no agricultural animals or fowl shall be kept within
40 feet of any residential dwelling and no structure for the keeping of agricultural animals or
fowl shall be constructed or maintained within 40 feet of a residential dwelling. Specific
examples were discussed. Mr. Prestwich further stated that if a home is built near an already
existing animal shed, the shed need not be removed.

Mr. Prestwich commented on the issue of backyard chickens and stated that in 2008 it
became an issue. The City Council ultimately settled on an ordinance that allowed chickens
in residential zones. They are also allowed in special districts on lot sizes of 10,000 square
feet or larger. He clarified that the proposal would not impact residential chickens and
resolves the ambiguity.

Mr. Prestwich explained that despite there being an exception for residential chickens, there
is a restriction in the R2, R3, and R4 zones, which allow only six hens to be kept. Roosters
are not allowed in these zones. Mr. Prestwich commented on pet goats, which were
approved as therapy goats for autistic children. He explained that two goats of a special
breed that are licensed by a veterinarian are allowed in any zone.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing. There were no public hearings. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend approval
of the Zone Text Change to Section 18.135.090 for Agricultural Structures as shown
with an exception to read as follows: “No structure for the keeping of agricultural
animals or fowl shall be constructed within 40 feet of a residential dwelling.”
Commissioner James seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      DECISION ITEMS

1.     COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN AMENDMENT, BARBARA CATRON IS SEEKING
       APPROVAL OF ARCHITECTURAL CHANGES TO THE PREVIOUSLY APPROVED
       PHASE 2 OF BECKSTEAD-BUTTERFIELD OFFICE CONVERSION LOCATED AT
       13024 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the renovation of the home is
complete and looks great. When the site plan was approved there was a master site plan
with two phases. The physical improvements have been completed but the building for
Phase 2 has not. After completing Phase 1, the applicant wished to make modifications to
