Riverton City Code Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES                                                    Page 1 of 9




                                               Chapter 18.225
                                           ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

Sections:
18.225.020    General standards.

18.225.030    Location of accessory structures.

18.225.040    Architectural standards.

18.225.050    Agricultural structures.

18.225.060    Carports/temporary vehicle storage.

18.225.070    Swimming pools.

18.225.080    Accessory dwelling units.

18.225.020 General standards.
(1) General Standards. In addition to the use limitations and other regulations for the zoning district in which the
accessory structure is proposed, no accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed unless it complies
with the following requirements:

     (a) All accessory structures shall be incidental and subordinate to the principal use and/or structure on the
     property.

     (b) An accessory structure shall be under the same ownership or control as the principal structure and/or
     use on the property.

     (c) No accessory structure shall be established or constructed before the main dwelling or structure is
     under construction, and no accessory structure shall be occupied prior to issuance of a certificate of
     occupancy for the main dwelling or structure.

     (d) No accessory structure shall include a residential dwelling or kitchen facilities, nor may an accessory
     structure be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling, except as provided in RCC 18.225.080.

     (e) All accessory structures shall comply with any and all applicable standards and requirements of the
     International Building and Fire Codes.

     (f) Play structures less than 15 feet in height and with a covered and/or enclosed floor area of less than 30
     square feet are exempt from the general restrictions of this chapter, but must comply with all setback
     requirements for accessory structures.



                 The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-07, passed March 2, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES                                                    Page 2 of 9




     (g) It shall be the sole responsibility of the property owner to obtain a release from the utility companies and
     any other entity holding rights to public utility or other easements on the property prior to any construction
     within those areas. [Ord. 19-21 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.030 Location of accessory structures.
(1) Measurements. For the purpose of this chapter, measurements shall be from the foundation of the accessory
building to property line, or to foundation on the main dwelling.

(2) Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from the main dwelling.

(3) A minimum distance of five feet shall be maintained between accessory structures.

(4) Accessory structures may not encroach into any public utility or other easement without written permission
to encroach from all parties with rights to the easement.

(5) Front Yards. All accessory structures are prohibited within any required front yard area, and no accessory
structure shall extend within 10 feet of the front plane of the main dwelling.

(6) Side Setbacks. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the side property line,
except as follows:

     (a) All accessory structures located between the main structure and the side property line shall maintain
     the same side yard setback as required for the main structure.

     (b) All accessory structures on corner lots shall maintain the minimum corner side yard setback as
     required for the main dwelling.

     (c) Accessory structures of 200 square feet or less may be located a minimum of one foot from the side
     property lines, provided no portion of the building extends over the property line and runoff is contained to
     the property.

     (d) Accessory structures over 20 feet in height shall have a minimum side yard setback of 15 feet.

(7) Rear Setbacks. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the rear property line,
except as follows:

     (a) Accessory structures of 200 square feet or less shall be located a minimum of one foot from the rear
     property line, provided no portion of the building extends over the property line and runoff is contained to
     the property.




                The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-07, passed March 2, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES                                                    Page 3 of 9



     (b) Accessory structures over 20 feet in height shall have a minimum rear yard setback of 15 feet. [Ord.
     20-31 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-21 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.040 Architectural standards.
(1) Maximum Size. The maximum size of any accessory structure is two times the size of the footprint of the
principal structure (house and attached garage), and the maximum total size of all accessory structure(s) on any
parcel shall be limited to 10 percent of the total lot area, with any private lane as approved by Riverton City
excluded from the lot area.

(2) Maximum Height.

     (a) The maximum height of accessory structures shall be 20 feet. On property of at least 10,000 square
     feet the maximum height may be up to 25 feet, but may not exceed the height of the main dwelling,
     measured at the highest pitch of the roof.

     (b) Accessory structures shall be limited to one story. Unfinished storage areas under the roof trusses may
     be permitted, but shall not include finished space or utilities such as plumbing or electrical not associated
     with mechanical equipment. On property of at least one-third acre and zoned R-3, R-2, RR-22, R-1, or A-5,
     a second story may be allowed; provided, that no residential dwelling or kitchen facilities are included, nor
     may the structure be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.

     (c) Height shall be measured from finished grade to the highest point on the structure.

(3) Exterior Materials and Design. Architectural standards, including general appearance, building materials, and
color, shall be as follows:

     (a) Accessory structures of 200 square feet or less shall be consistent in color and design with the main
     dwelling. Exposed plywood or particle board, corrugated metal, or similar materials are prohibited as
     exterior materials.

     (b) Accessory structures greater than 200 square feet shall utilize only exterior building materials that are
     present on the main dwelling, excluding trim and nonarchitectural elements, structural materials, and
     prohibited materials. Colors shall be similar in tone and complementary to those used on the main dwelling.
     Wood or wood product siding, exposed plywood or particle board, corrugated metal, or similar materials are
     prohibited as exterior materials. Fiber-cement siding and aluminum or other metal siding may be substituted
     for vinyl siding if such siding is similar in color and appearance to the vinyl siding used on the main
     dwelling, as approved by the planning manager.

     (c) Accessory structures greater than 1,200 square feet shall include a minimum of 20 percent of the front
     exterior walls, and of the street side(s) of a corner lot, in masonry such as brick or stone same type,
     coloring, and/or style as on the main dwelling.


                 The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-07, passed March 2, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES                                                   Page 4 of 9


     coloring, and/or style as on the main dwelling.

          (i) On property of at least one acre and zoned RR-22, R-1, or A-5, split-face or honed block may be
          used in place of stucco or other materials, but may not be substituted for any required brick, stone or
          other masonry consistent with that used on the home.

     (d) For accessory structures greater than 200 square feet where exterior materials on the main dwelling
     consist exclusively of masonry such as brick or stone, the exterior side of the accessory structure facing
     the front of the lot shall be entirely masonry of the same type and style on the main dwelling. For the
     remaining sides, the lower one-third of each side shall be masonry as used on the front elevation, and the
     remaining exterior may consist of stucco and/or vinyl or fiber-cement siding that is complementary to the
     main dwelling in color and design. [Ord. 20-31 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-21 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 18-14 § 1 (Exh.
     A); Ord. 12-26 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.050 Agricultural structures.
(1) Agricultural Structures. Accessory structures constructed on parcels of at least one-half acre and used
exclusively for agricultural use, defined as exclusively for the storage of farm animals and/or feed, as defined by
ordinance, or of equipment used for commercial agricultural production on parcels of at least 20 acres, shall
comply with the requirements of this chapter except as follows:

     (a) Agricultural structures must be designed such that the primary function of the structure is the keeping of
     farm animals and/or feed.

     (b) Agricultural structures shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from side and rear property lines, and, if
     located on a corner lot, shall comply with standard corner lot setback requirements.

     (c) Agricultural structures may not be located within 40 feet of any residential dwelling.

     (d) Maximum height of agricultural structures shall be 35 feet.

     (e) Agricultural structures may, on approval from the planning department, utilize such exterior building
     materials that are appropriate to the use, while complementary to the main dwelling and to the surrounding
     community. [Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.060 Carports/temporary vehicle storage.
(1) Temporary carports and other such temporary vehicle covers are permitted as follows:

     (a) Temporary carports may only be used for parking or/and storage of vehicles and/or trailers.

     (b) Temporary carports must be less than 200 square feet, have a maximum of two enclosed sides and
     may not be placed on a permanent foundation.




                The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-07, passed March 2, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES                                                       Page 5 of 9



     (c) Temporary carports shall meet the same setback, height, and coverage requirements as other
     accessory structures. However, carports may be placed directly adjacent to the main dwelling, provided the
     same side yard setbacks which apply to an attached garage are met.

     (d) Setbacks for temporary carports or other such structures are measured to the base of the support
     structure.

     (e) Temporary carports must comply with any and all applicable requirements and standards of the
     currently adopted building and fire codes.

(2) Storage containers, freight containers, box cars, and similar storage equipment are prohibited. Temporary
storage containers may be used during a move, but may not be present on the property for more than 72 hours.
[Ord. 19-11 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-26 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.070 Swimming pools.
(1) Swimming pools shall have a minimum setback of five feet from all property lines, and must have a minimum
separation of five feet from any other structure, excluding unenclosed mechanical equipment associated with the
pool or other water features, and slides or similar play equipment. Setbacks are measured to water’s edge.

(2) Any swimming pool shall be completely surrounded by a non-accessible wall or fence having a height of at
least six feet in which there shall be no openings larger than 36 square inches except for gates which shall be
equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices. [Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.080 Accessory dwelling units.
(1) Applicability. Accessory dwelling units are limited to all single-family zones, provided the lot under
consideration for an accessory dwelling unit can meet all technical requirements of this chapter, and applicable
building/fire codes. Accessory dwelling units shall not be permitted on a parcel of property which does not meet
the minimum square footage requirements of the underlying zone.

(2) Methods of Creation. An accessory dwelling unit may be created through the following methods:

     (a) Converting existing living area within a single-family dwelling, as an addition to an existing single-family
     dwelling, or within a single-family dwelling created as new construction;

     (b) Converting an existing detached accessory building, as an addition to an existing accessory building; or

     (c) As a newly constructed accessory building.

(3) Standards. Accessory dwelling units shall conform to the following requirements:

     (a) General Requirements Applicable to All Accessory Dwelling Units.




                  The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-07, passed March 2, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES                                                       Page 6 of 9




          (i) One per Lot. One accessory dwelling unit for each lot that contains a single-family dwelling.

          (ii) Not a Unit of Density. Accessory dwelling units are not considered a unit of density and therefore
          are not included in the density calculation for residential property.

          (iii) Ownership. An accessory dwelling unit shall not be sold separately or subdivided from the principal
          dwelling unit or lot.

     (b) Owner Occupancy. The city shall only permit an accessory dwelling unit when an owner occupant lives
     on the property within either the principal or accessory dwelling unit. Owner occupancy shall not be
     required when:

          (i) The owner has a bona fide, temporary absence of three years or less for activities such as military
          service, temporary job assignments, sabbaticals, or voluntary service (indefinite periods of absence
          from the dwelling shall not qualify for this exception); or

          (ii) The owner is placed in a hospital, nursing home, assisted living facility or other similar facility that
          provides regular medical care, excluding retirement living facilities or communities.

(4) Number of Residents. The total number of residents that reside in an accessory dwelling unit may not exceed
the number allowed for a “family” for the lot on which the accessory dwelling unit is found, as defined in RCC
18.05.030, Definition of terms. This chapter shall not be construed to expand or increase the number of residents
who would otherwise be allowed to occupy a parcel of property under existing limitations for single-family zones.

(5) Home Occupations. Home occupations may be conducted in an accessory dwelling unit as per Chapter
18.190 RCC.

(6) Parking. An accessory dwelling unit shall require a minimum of one dedicated on-site parking space. If the
property has an existing driveway, the driveway area located between the property line with an adjacent street
and a legally located off-street parking area can satisfy the parking requirement if the parking requirement for the
principal use complies with applicable parking standards for the appurtenant residence, and the driveway area
has a space that is at least 20 feet deep by eight feet wide.

(7) Additional Requirements for Accessory Dwelling Units Located within a Single-Family Dwelling. Accessory
dwelling units located within a single-family dwelling shall comply with the following standards:

     (a) Any addition shall comply with the building height, yard requirements, and building coverage
     requirements of the underlying zoning district.

     (b) Size Requirements. No accessory dwelling unit shall occupy more than 50 percent of the gross square
     footage of the single-family dwelling, as determined by the city. The square footage of a loft within an



                The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-07, passed March 2, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES                                                       Page 7 of 9



     accessory dwelling unit shall not be included in calculating the gross square footage. The square footage of
     an attached garage shall not be included in the gross square footage unless the accessory dwelling unit is
     located in a basement that includes habitable space below the garage.

     (c) Entrance Locations. Entrances to an accessory dwelling unit that are located within a single-family
     dwelling shall only be permitted in the following locations:

          (i) An existing entrance to the single-family dwelling;

          (ii) When located on a building facade that faces a corner side yard, the entrance shall be set back a
          minimum of 20 feet from the front building facade;

          (iii) Exterior stairs on a corner lot leading to an entrance above or below the first level of the principal
          structure shall only be located on the rear elevation of the building;

          (iv) Side entrances to an accessory dwelling unit are not considered a principal entry to the building;

          (v) Exterior stairs on lots other than a corner lot, leading to an entrance above or below the first level
          of the principal structure, may be located on a side or rear elevation of a building;

          (vi) Located on the rear facade of the dwelling.

(8) Additional Requirements for an Accessory Dwelling Unit Located in a Detached Accessory Building. An
accessory dwelling unit located in a detached accessory building or as an addition to an existing accessory
building shall comply with the following standards:

     (a) Bulk Requirements. Shall comply with all applicable general yard, square footage size and height
     limitations found in this chapter and any accessory building regulation found in the underlying zoning district
     unless otherwise regulated by this section. An accessory dwelling unit located in an additional accessory
     building shall count towards the maximum square footage of all accessory buildings as stated in this
     chapter. The accessory building containing an accessory dwelling unit shall not have a footprint that is
     greater than 50 percent of the footprint of the principal dwelling. Any loft within the accessory dwelling unit
     of an accessory building shall not be included in calculating the footprint of the accessory dwelling unit. An
     accessory building that contains an accessory dwelling unit and any other permitted accessory use shall
     comply with all building coverage requirements of this chapter.

     (b) Maximum Coverage. Shall comply with the accessory building maximum coverage requirements of the
     underlying zoning district.

     (c) Setbacks. Shall comply with the accessory building setback requirements of the underlying zoning.




                The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-07, passed March 2, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES                                                   Page 8 of 9



     (d) Building Height. Shall comply with the accessory building height requirements of the underlying zoning.

     (e) Size Requirements. An accessory building that contains an accessory dwelling unit shall be subject to
     the building coverage requirements for accessory buildings found in this chapter.

     (f) Entrance Locations. The entrance to an accessory dwelling unit in an accessory building shall be
     located:

         (i) Facing an alley, public street or facing the rear facade of the single-family dwelling on the same
         property.

         (ii) Facing a side or rear property line provided the entrance is located a minimum of 10 feet from the
         side or rear property line.

         (iii) Exterior stairs leading to an entrance shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from a side or rear
         property line.

     (g) Requirements for Windows. Windows on an accessory building containing an accessory dwelling unit
     shall comply with the following standards:

         (i) Windows shall maintain a similar dimension and design as the windows found on the principal
         structure, as approved by the planning department.

         (ii) Window openings located on the ground floor within an existing accessory building, whether
         conforming or nonconforming with window regulations in this chapter, may be retained if compliant with
         building and fire codes, as determined by the planning department.

     (h) Balconies and Decks. Balconies and decks shall be designed as follows:

         (i) Shall not exceed 80 square feet in size when located above the ground level of the building;

         (ii) Shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from a side or rear yard lot line unless the applicable side or
         rear yard lot line is adjacent to an alley;

         (iii) Rooftop decks or second-story decks are prohibited on an accessory structure used as an
         accessory dwelling unit.

(9) Registration Process. The owner occupant(s) seeking to establish an accessory dwelling unit shall apply for
a permit to establish an accessory dwelling unit, using forms provided by the planning department. Each
successive owner occupant seeking to maintain an existing, lawfully permitted accessory dwelling unit shall
renew the existing permit, using forms provided by the planning department. Registration shall include a




                The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-07, passed March 2, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.225 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES                                                     Page 9 of 9



processing fee of $175.00, which will include the cost of any city inspections not associated with a building
permit. The owner occupant shall comply with all applicable provisions of this title including, but not limited to:

     (a) Building Permit. Obtain a building permit for construction associated with the proposed accessory
     dwelling unit, regardless of method of creation. No ADU permit and/or certificate of occupancy shall be
     issued for an accessory dwelling unit until all associated construction is complete and inspected.

     (b) Statement of Owner Occupancy. An application for an accessory dwelling unit shall include
     documentation, using forms provided by the planning department, that demonstrates an owner occupant
     resides on the property.

(10) Occupancy. A certificate of occupancy/ADU permit for the ADU shall not be issued until all applicable
requirements of this title have been complied with.

     (a) Certificate of Occupancy. No accessory dwelling unit shall receive a certificate of occupancy/ADU
     permit or be occupied until the property owner completes the registration process outlined in this section.
     Registration is not required if the ADU is occupied by family members of the property owner.

     (b) Failure to comply with the standards and requirements of this section, and any and all other applicable
     ordinances, standards, or regulations of the city, may result in revocation of the ADU permit and/or
     certificate of occupancy for the accessory dwelling unit. [Ord. 19-21 § 1 (Exh. A).]




                The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-07, passed March 2, 2021.
