Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                               Page 1 of 14



                                                Chapter 18.150
                                         SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE

Sections:

                                             Article I. General Provisions

18.150.010    Short title.

18.150.020    Purpose and scope of chapter.

18.150.030    Interpretation.

18.150.040    Definitions.

                                         Article II. Application of Regulations

18.150.050    Conformity of signs.

18.150.060    Construction standards.

18.150.070    Sign permit.

18.150.080    Fees.

18.150.090    Exempt signs for which no sign permit is required.

                                            Article III. Sign Requirements

18.150.100    General provisions.

18.150.110    Types of signs which are permitted, permitted only upon successful application for a
conditional use permit, and signs which are not permitted in each zoning district – Sign standards.

18.150.120    Exceptions and qualifications for specific sign types.

18.150.130    Visual appearance of signage along major streets.

18.150.140    Prohibited signs.

                                           Article IV. Nonconforming Signs

18.150.150    Nonconforming signs.

                                         Article V. Enforcement and Appeals

18.150.160    Enforcement.

18.150.170    Appeals.

                                            Article I. General Provisions

18.150.010 Short title.
This chapter shall be known as the Riverton City sign regulation ordinance. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04
§ 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-320-101.]

18.150.020 Purpose and scope of chapter.
Because Riverton City is a large, diverse and rapidly expanding municipality, the city council finds that
consistent sign control is necessary. The provisions of this chapter are made to establish reasonable, objective
and constitutional time, place, and manner regulations for all signs in Riverton City which are visible to the
public. Within those legal constraints, sign regulations adopted under this chapter are necessary to protect the
general public health, safety, welfare, convenience, and aesthetics; to protect and enhance property values; and
to protect and enhance the natural setting of the city. At the same time, this chapter is also intended to
reasonably serve the public’s need to be given helpful directions and to be informed of available products,
businesses, and services. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997
§ 12-320-102.]

18.150.030 Interpretation.
In interpreting and applying this chapter, the sign area requirements contained herein are declared to be the
maximum allowable for the purpose set forth. The types of signs allowed by this chapter are fully described
herein. Sign types not specifically set forth within this chapter are prohibited. This chapter shall not nullify more
restrictive provisions of covenants, agreements, easements, deed restrictions, other ordinances, or laws, but
shall prevail over such provisions which are less restrictive. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A);
Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-320-103.]

18.150.040 Definitions.
The terms, phrases, words and their derivatives shall have the meaning as stated and defined in this chapter
unless the context indicates a contrary meaning. Terms defined in this title shall have the same meaning when
used in this chapter. Where inconsistent with definitions in other provisions of this title, the definitions found in
this chapter shall be applied to this chapter.

“Abandoned sign” is a sign that is left on property for a period of time in excess of 45 calendar days after the
business or use that it advertises has moved to another location or ceased doing business.

“A-frame sign” is a freestanding, permanently permitted portable sign usually constructed of two separate sign
faces attached at the top.

“Animated sign” is a sign with parts or sections which revolve or move or which has flashing or intermittent
lights, but not including time and temperature signs or electronic signs.

“Awning sign” is a sign constructed of a framework that is mounted to a building or canopy. The framework is
usually covered with a light fabric that may be translucent. The awning cover may contain advertising or
identifying copy, graphics, or design and may be backlighted. Awnings used strictly as protective structures for
windows and doors and having no sign copy or design are not signs and may display the building address only.




                                       The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                                 Page 2 of 14



“Backlighted sign” is a sign with the light source positioned inside or behind the sign face, such as behind raised
letters and awnings or inside sign cabinets, the lighting source of which is not itself visible to the observer.

“Banner” is any cloth, bunting, plastic, paper, or similar material used for temporary advertising which is
attached to or appended from a building.

“Bench sign” is a sign that is applied to the back of a bench located at a bus stop designated by the Utah Transit
Authority.

“Billboard sign” is a freestanding ground sign designed or intended to direct attention to a business, product, or
service that is not sold, offered or existing on the property where the billboard is located.

“Changeable copy sign” is a sign on which the text or copy is changed manually or electronically.

“Conforming sign” is a sign that meets all provisions of this chapter.

“Construction sign” is a sign, on-premises or off-premises, which directs to, identifies or describes the
development or construction of a use, building or buildings which are planned or currently underway located
within the city boundaries.

“Copy” is the wording on the display surface of a sign.

“Directional sign” is a sign limited to directional messages such as one way, entrance and exit and has no
advertising copy.

“Directory sign” means a variation of a monument or wall sign on which the names and locations of occupants or
the use of a building or property is identified, but which does not include any advertising message.

“Electronic message sign” is a display consisting of an array of light sources, panels, or disks that are
electronically activated.

“Extending sign” is a sign that projects more than 24 inches from a wall.

“Freestanding sign” is a sign that is self-supported by poles, pylons, or other structural supports mounted in the
ground.

“Freeway-oriented sign” is an on-premises sign located on and providing advertising for a regional commercial
site which is adjacent to a limited access highway or freeway.

“Illegal sign” is any sign that violates any provision of the Riverton City Code or is determined to not be a
conforming sign.

“Illuminated or lighted sign” is a sign equipped with artificial lighting devices for the purpose of improving the
sign’s visibility.

“Inflated sign” is any advertising device that is supported by heated or forced-air or lighter-than-air gases.

“Kiosk sign” is a structure with four sides or less upon which a subdivision, planned residential development,
homebuilder, multifamily development or public service sign panel may be mounted.

“Low-maintenance sign” is a sign composed of sign materials that do not require frequent replacement, painting,
or refurbishing as a result of exposure to the elements.

“Maintenance” means to repair, refurbish, repaint, or otherwise keep an existing billboard and its structure safe
and in a state suitable for use, including signs destroyed or damaged by vandalism, an act of God, or casualty.

“Major pylon sign” is a freestanding sign, not more than 25 feet in height.

“Major street construction” means the repair or reconstruction of a street where access to adjacent properties is
restricted for more than seven consecutive days.

“Minor pylon sign” is a freestanding sign, not more than 12 feet in height.

“Monument sign” is a freestanding identification, advertising or business sign which is supported by a base
which is equal to or greater than the width of the sign and is mounted permanently in the ground.

“Nameplate sign” is a wall sign indicating the name and/or occupation of a person or persons residing on the
premises or legally occupying the premises, or indicating a home occupation legally existing on the premises.

“Neighborhood entryway sign” is a permanent sign used to identify the main entrance(s) of a neighborhood,
which is incorporated into an approved wall or fence.

“Noncommercial sign” is any structure, housing, sign, device, figure, statuary, painting, display, message,
placard or other contrivance, which is designed, constructed, created, engineered, intended or used to provide
data or information that does not do any of the following:

(1) Advertise a product or service for profit or for a business purpose;

(2) Propose a commercial transaction; or

(3) Relate solely to economic interests.

“Off-premises sign” is a sign indicating the availability of goods or services at a location other than the location
of the sign.

“On-premises sign” is a sign located on the property that it serves.

“Pedestal sign” is a portable sign supported by a column or columns and a base.

“Pole sign” is a freestanding sign which is supported by a pole or poles mounted permanently to the ground.

“Political sign” is any sign that supports the candidacy of any candidate for public office or conveys a message
relating to any other political issue.




                                         The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                               Page 3 of 14


“Portable reader sign” is a reader sign that is mounted on a portable framework and intended for temporary use.

“Portable sign” is any sign which is prominently displayed to identify, advertise, direct, or promote any person,
product, company, entity or service, and which is movable in nature, such as A-frames, pedestals, signs on
vehicles, banners attached to freestanding poles, or similar signs which are not permanently installed in the
ground.

“Projecting sign” is a sign that is attached to and projects from a building, pole or other support.

“Promotional sign” is a temporary device such as banners, streamers, flags, balloons, pennants, searchlights,
and inflated signs.

“Reader sign” is a changeable copy display that allows for the manual or electrical changing of the copy or text.

“Roof sign” is a sign which is supported wholly or in part by and which projects over a roof.

“Sculptured sign” is a free-form or three-dimensional sign that has a depth greater than two feet.

“Sign” means materials placed or constructed, or light projected, that (1) conveys a message or image and (2) is
used to inform or attract the attention of the public. Some examples of signs are materials or lights meeting the
definition of the preceding sentence and which are commonly referred to as signs, placards, A-boards, posters,
billboards, murals, diagrams, banners, flags, or projected slides, images or holograms, and also includes the
structure, supports, lighting system attachments, and other features of the sign. The scope of the term “sign”
does not depend on the content of the message or image conveyed.

“Sign alteration” is the changing or rearranging of any structural part, sign face, enclosure, lighting, coloring,
copy (except on reader signs), graphics, component, or location of a sign.

“Sign area” is the portion of a sign used for display purposes, excluding the frame and supports. Only one side of
a double-faced sign (covering the same subject) shall be used for computing the sign area when the signs are
parallel (no greater than two feet apart) or diverge from a common edge by an angle not greater than 30 degrees.
For signs that do not have defined display areas, sign area shall be the area of the smallest rectangle or square
that will frame the display.

“Sign clearance” is the height of the lower edge of the face of a freestanding sign from the finished grade.

“Sign density” is the concentration of signs in a given area, frontage, district, or lot. “Density,” as used in this
chapter, will usually be defined in terms of numbers of signs per lot or frontage.

“Sign design” is the form, features, colors, and overall appearance of a sign structure.

“Sign development plan” is a comprehensive plan for all signs proposed for a development and may include a
combination of site plans, architectural elevations, and written specifications which illustrate and describe
proposed location, height, design, colors, and materials for such signs.

“Sign height” is the height of a sign measured from the elevation of the nearest sidewalk or, if there is no
sidewalk, from the nearest curb or, if there is no curb, from the elevation of the nearest street paving surface.

“Sign location” is the position on a property where a sign is to be placed.

“Sign separation” is the horizontal distance between signs measured parallel with the street or curb.

“Sign setback” is the horizontal distance between the property line (front or side) and the closest edge of the
sign structure.

“Snipe sign” is a sign for which a permit has not been obtained which is attached to a public utility pole, service
pole, support for another sign, fence, tree, etc.

“Structural modification” is any change other than incidental repairs that would prolong the life of the supporting
members of the sign.

“Suspended sign” is a sign that overhangs a pedestrian walkway beneath a canopy, eave, or awning.

“Temporary sign” is any exterior sign, banner, pennant, valance, or advertising display constructed of paper,
cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard, or other light materials, with or without light frames, intended to
be displayed for a short period of time. Examples of temporary signs include but are not limited to A-frame signs,
balloons, banners, garage/yard sale signs, real estate signs, or special event signs.

“Vehicle sign” is a sign or advertising device that is attached to, painted on, placed upon, or supported by any
truck, trailer, boat, other vehicle, or portable structure conspicuously or regularly parked on- or off-premises
expressly to attract attention to a business, product, or promotion. This definition does not apply to signs or
lettering on public transit vehicles, taxis, or company vehicles operating during the normal course of business or
parked in a legally designated on-site parking space at the location of the company owning the vehicle.

“Wall sign” is a sign that is painted on or affixed to a building wall and projects not more than 12 inches from the
wall. [Ord. 18-34 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-08 § 1(A); Ord. 08-24
§ 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-320-104.]

                                       Article II. Application of Regulations

18.150.050 Conformity of signs.
No sign shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, located, relocated, placed, replaced, restored, extended,
enlarged, modified, altered, or repaired except in conformity with this title. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04
§ 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-321-101.]

18.150.060 Construction standards.
All sign construction and use shall comply with the International Building Code, the National Electrical Code, this
chapter, and all federal, state and other applicable city regulations, including those concerning power line and
other utility clearances. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997
§ 12-321-102.]

18.150.070 Sign permit.
(1) Permit Required. A sign permit shall be required prior to the erection, construction, reconstruction, location,




                                       The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                                Page 4 of 14


relocation, placement, replacement, restoration, extension, enlargement, modification, alteration, repair, or use
of any sign within the city, unless designated as an exempt sign in RCC 18.150.090. Sign permits requiring
review of the city council are not automatically approved. Signs installed without a permit or in violation of the
terms of a permit shall render the sign and its owner subject to the enforcement provisions of this chapter.

(2) Issuance. The planning department is empowered to:

     (a) Issue permits to erect, construct, reconstruct, locate, relocate, place, replace, restore, extend, enlarge,
     modify, alter, repair or use signs which conform to this chapter and are a part of a sign development plan
     which has received approval of the city council; and

     (b) Determine that all sign applications conform to this chapter.

(3) Zoning District Approval. Before any sign permit shall be issued, the planning department shall review the
sign application to determine compliance with the land use provisions of the respective zone in which the
relevant sign is found or proposed to be located.

(4) City Council Approval. Before a sign permit may be issued, the following levels of review and approval shall
be obtained:

     (a) A sign development plan for all nonresidential developments must be approved by the city council. A
     sign development plan may be reviewed and approved as a part of the applicant’s application for site plan
     approval;

     (b) Revised sign development plans for existing developments must be approved by the planning
     commission where an existing sign is proposed to be relocated or undergo a material change to the height
     or width of the sign;

     (c) A sign conditional use permit must be obtained where required by this chapter.

(5) City Staff Approval. All other sign permits may be approved by the planning department.

(6) Application Submittal. Permit applications for a temporary or permanent sign shall be made by submitting the
following information to the planning department:

     (a) Applications for Monument and Pole Signs.

          (i) A site plan showing the relationship of the sign to buildings, other signs, and property lines and
          setbacks from public rights-of-way, intersections, easements and driveways;

          (ii) Accurately dimensioned, scaled drawings showing height, color, dimensions, landscaping, sign
          composition, type of illumination, and how the sign will appear from the street;

          (iii) Details of sign construction, including: electrical plan, foundation scheme, and value of the sign;
          and

          (iv) Length of property street frontage.

     (b) Applications for Wall Signs.

          (i) Scaled drawings or accurate, scaled photos showing dimensions of both the building face and the
          sign, sign composition, and type of illumination;

          (ii) An architectural elevation drawing of the sign on the building to show how the sign will appear from
          the street/parking area; and

          (iii) Details of sign construction and attachment including an electrical plan, if applicable.

     (c) Applications for Temporary Signs.

          (i) Site plan showing the relationship of the sign(s) to buildings, property lines, and other signs; and
          setbacks from each public right-of-way, intersection, easement, and driveway existing and adjacent to
          the property on which the temporary sign is to be situated. The site plan does not need to be
          professionally drawn; and

          (ii) Length of requested period for display.

     (d) Applications for Off-Premises Development and Private Directional Signs. Written consent from the
     owner of the property upon which the sign will be located.

     (e) Applications for Kiosk Signs.

          (i) Written approval from the property owner of the proposed location for the kiosk sign;

          (ii) A letter of approval from UDOT, if applicable;

          (iii) A kiosk location plan shall be prepared showing the site of each kiosk;

          (iv) An approved kiosk location plan shall be resubmitted for approval every 12 months; and

          (v) An annual fee, in an amount established by resolution of the city council.

     (f) Additional Information Required for All Sign Permits.

          (i) Proof of current Riverton City business license, where applicable;

          (ii) Business address and phone number;

          (iii) Address of real property owner and phone number;

          (iv) General or electrical contractor license, phone number, and address; and

          (v) Estimated fair market value of the sign and its cost of manufacture or construction; and

          (vi) Property owner approval.




                                        The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                                Page 5 of 14



(7) Expiration of Permit. All sign permits shall expire 180 days following the date of issuance of the sign permit
by the planning department, unless the sign is fully constructed according to the plans submitted with the
application for the sign permit. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code
1997 § 12-321-103.]

18.150.080 Fees.
Fees as established by resolution of the city council shall be paid at the time of the issuance of the sign permit.
[Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-321-104.]

18.150.090 Exempt signs for which no sign permit is required.
The following types of signs are exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter, but shall be in compliance
with all other applicable provisions:

(1) On-Premises Development or Construction Signs. Two on-premises development or construction signs per
street frontage of at least 100 feet, each no larger than 64 square feet in area and not exceeding 10 feet in height
and which comply with the same size, location, spacing and display period standards as an off-premises
development sign, may be placed on real property on which new subdivisions or homes are being constructed.
The permitted number of on-premises development or construction signs located on real property shall not
increase with the participation of multiple developers or builders participating in the development project. These
signs must be removed within one year from the date the last building permit is issued within the development.

(2) On-Premises Real Estate Sign – Small Lots. Lots with less than 200 feet of frontage on a street may display
one on-premises sign per lot; provided, that the sign is securely attached to the ground; advertises only that the
home on the lot is for sale or rent, including signs titled “For Rent,” “For Sale,” “Open House,” “For Lease,” or
similar signs; is no larger than eight square feet in area; and does not exceed six feet in height. “Open house”
signs may only be displayed for the duration of the open house or eight consecutive hours, whichever is less,
and shall be removed within 30 minutes after the conclusion of the advertised “open house.”

(3) On-Premises Real Estate Sign – Large Lots. Notwithstanding the number limit in subsection (2) of this
section, lots with 200 or more feet of frontage on a street may display two on-premises signs per lot, which are
no larger than 16 square feet in area. The other provisions of subsection (2) of this section shall apply.

(4) Temporary Real Estate Directional Signs. Temporary real estate directional signs located to direct a potential
customer to real property for sale or lease. The size of the sign shall not exceed four square feet and shall be
placed at the entrance to the subdivision in which the subject property is located. The sign shall not be located
within any public right-of-way, including park strip between curb and sidewalk, and shall be subject to the
following:

     (a) Directional signs to a residence shall be limited to one on-premises and three off-premises signs. If a
     realtor has more than one house open for inspection in a single development, off-premises signs are limited
     to four for the entire development;

     (b) The signs are permitted only during daylight hours and when the realtor or seller or an agent is in
     attendance at the property for sale or lease; and

     (c) The directional signs shall be a minimum of 25 feet from any other freestanding sign and outside the
     clear vision area at street intersections.

(5) Noncommercial Signs. Noncommercial signs, not exceeding eight square feet in size, located on private
property with the owner’s permission. Noncommercial signage referring to a specific event must be removed 15
days after the event has occurred. Anywhere a display, structure or sign is permitted by this chapter, a
noncommercial message may be placed on such display, structure or sign.

(6) Temporary Use On-Premises Sign. One 32-square-foot, temporary use on-premises sign placed in
connection with a Christmas tree lot, fireworks stand or other temporary use that is approved and licensed by
the city.

(7) Vacant Property Signs. Signs on undeveloped or vacant property including “No Dumping” or “No
Trespassing” signs, provided the sign is eight square feet or less in area.

(8) Nameplates. A nameplate sign, provided the sign is no larger than four square feet in area.

(9) Directional Signs. Service or directional signs or signs located only on private property and not exceeding
four square feet in area, which serve to designate the location or direction to any use or structure on the
premises such as signs titled “Entrance,” “Exit,” “Parking,” “Restrooms,” “No Smoking,” or “Delivery.”

(10) Public Necessity or Regulatory Signs. Public necessity or regulatory signs which warn or inform as required
by law, if erected by or on behalf of public agencies.

(11) Window Signs. Window signs, including posters, messages or displays painted or mounted on the interior
side of a window; provided, that no more than 50 percent of the total window area on which the sign is located is
covered.

(12) Garage/Yard Sale Signs. Temporary home production or garage sale signs on private property in residential
zones; provided, that sign is no larger than four square feet in area.

(13) Public/Quasi-Public Signs. Flags, banners or pennants of governments, public agencies or institutions.

(14) Civic and Nonprofit Events. Signs which announce events, activities, or celebrations sponsored by, or
conducted in conjunction with, Riverton City, Salt Lake County or the state of Utah. While no permit is required,
such signs shall comply with the requirements and provisions of this chapter, including RCC 18.150.120(12).

(15) Interior Signs. Interior signs or signs used within buildings and not intentionally positioned to be visible from
the outside.

(16) Temporary Banners and Freestanding Signs Placed during Holiday Periods. In addition to the display
periods specified in RCC 18.150.120(12)(b), a business may display one banner, securely attached to the
building facade, and one freestanding sign during the holiday periods specified below. Freestanding holiday signs
shall not be larger than 50 square feet in size. The sign may be erected in front of the business on private
property and shall be securely attached to the ground. The holiday periods during which temporary banners and




                                        The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                                Page 6 of 14


freestanding signs may be displayed are as follows:

     (a) Presidents’ Day. Four days before the date of the holiday, on the holiday and one calendar day after the
     holiday;

     (b) Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. Four calendar days before the date of the holiday, on the holiday and
     one calendar day after the holiday;

     (c) Memorial Day. Four days before the date of the holiday, on the holiday and one calendar day after the
     holiday;

     (d) Independence Day. June 30th through July 3rd, and July 5th;

     (e) Pioneer Day. July 20th through July 23rd, and July 25th;

     (f) Labor Day. Four calendar days before the date of the holiday, on the holiday and one calendar day after
     the holiday;

     (g) Columbus Day. Four calendar days before the date of the holiday, on the holiday and one calendar day
     after the holiday;

     (h) Veterans’ Day. Four calendar days before the date of the holiday, on the holiday and one calendar day
     after the holiday;

     (i) Thanksgiving. One calendar day before the date of the holiday, on the holiday and four calendar days
     after the holiday; and

     (j) Christmas/Hanukkah/New Year’s Day. December 15th through January 2nd.

(17) Art. Art or art forms that do not contain or imply any commercial message.

(18) Temporary Signs during Road Construction. Temporary signs displayed during periods of major road
construction, as described by RCC 18.150.120(13), or any successor section.

(19) Handheld Signs. Commercial handheld signs; provided, that each is no larger than six square feet in size, is
displayed only during daylight hours, and is subject to the limitations of RCC 18.150.140(2).

(20) New Building Construction – Temporary Signs. Shall be approved for 30 days before the estimated date of
certificate of occupancy, and last until 14 days after the certificate of occupancy is issued; normal temporary
sign ordinances apply.

(21) Political Signs. Political signs may be displayed without permit and are allowed; provided, that the signs are
not erected in such a manner as to constitute a roof sign, are not located on property in a way that constitutes a
safety or visibility problem and are not erected on utility poles, street signs or in public rights-of-way. Political
signs lawfully erected without a sign permit must be located on private property with the property owner’s
consent and shall not be located within the city right-of-way or on any city-owned property or structure. All other
provisions of this chapter shall continue to apply to political signs. Any sign placed in public right-of-way is
subject to removal by city staff. When signs are removed for this reason, the responsible party shall be notified
of the reason for the removal and the location. The sign will be made available for five calendar days to be
picked up. After that time, the confiscated sign will be destroyed. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh.
A); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-321-105.]

                                           Article III. Sign Requirements

18.150.100 General provisions.
The following provisions shall apply to all signs:

(1) Minimum Side Yard Setback. Signs shall not be constructed in or project into any required side yard in any
zone. Where no side yard is required, signs shall not be located closer than five feet from the property line
unless otherwise stated herein.

(2) Maintenance. Signs, sign structures, and the areas around sign bases shall be kept in good repair and
maintained in a safe and attractive condition. This includes the replacement of defective parts, repainting,
cleaning and other acts for proper maintenance. The ground space within a radius of five feet from the base of
any sign shall be kept free and clear of all weeds, trash and flammable material. “Sign maintenance” does not
mean altering a sign in any way without a sign permit.

(3) Repair of Building Facade. Any building facade from which a sign is removed or on which a sign is repaired,
changed or replaced shall be repaired, if damaged, within 30 calendar days of removing the sign from the
building.

(4) Highway Frontage. Limited access highway frontage shall not be considered frontage for purposes of this
chapter.

(5) Clear Vision Zone. Any sign located in a clear vision area shall maintain required clearances as specified in
this section. For traffic safety, signs exceeding three feet in height shall not be located within the triangular area
formed by street curb lines (or where curb lines would exist) and a line connecting them at points 40 feet from
intersection of street curb lines (or where curb lines would exist). A sign shall not be erected within 10 feet of
any drive aisle or point of access to a street.

(6) Minimum Clearance of Signs. Where pedestrian traffic is anticipated near a sign, minimum clearance of not
less than 10 feet shall be maintained from the bottom edge of a projecting sign, suspended sign, pole sign,
billboard or any similar sign to the final grade beneath the sign. The minimum clearance for signs near driveways
or parking areas shall be 14 feet. Signs shall be located not less than six feet horizontally or 12 feet vertically
from overhead electrical conductors. The term “overhead conductors” as used in this subsection means any
electrical conductor, either bare or insulated, installed above the ground, except such conductors as are
enclosed in iron pipe or other material covering of equal strength.

(7) Construction. All signs shall be constructed of durable, low-maintenance materials. The area around all
freestanding signs shall be landscaped. All wiring and similar components shall be concealed.

(8) Illumination. External or internal lighting or backlighting shall be allowed for illuminated signs.




                                        The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                                                                                                                                               Page 7 of 14



(9) Urban Design Standards. All signs shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the following
guidelines:

      (a) Signs shall be designed to incorporate colors, materials, and architectural design that are compatible
      with the development that they serve. The supports or base of signs shall complement the overall design
      scheme or shall be enclosed with architectural coverings;

      (b) Sign locations should be integrated with other elements on the site and the adjacent streetscape:

            (i) Signs shall not be located so as to obscure signs on adjacent sites;

            (ii) Signs shall not be placed in an area that can confuse motorists and pedestrians and cause potential
            safety hazards;

            (iii) Traffic directional signs should be placed to promote safe and efficient traffic flow; and

            (iv) Signs should be oriented to promote readability and serve their intended function; and

      (c) Although landscaping may not initially appear to obscure a sign, it may significantly reduce or eliminate
      the sign’s effectiveness unless taken into account in the planning stage. Signs should be placed so they are
      not obscured by landscaping when it has reached full maturity. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1
      (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-322-101.]

18.150.110 Types of signs which are permitted, permitted only upon successful application for a
conditional use permit, and signs which are not permitted in each zoning district – Sign standards.
(1) Signs permitted are designated with a “P”; signs permitted by conditional use only are designated with a “C.”
A sign which shows no designation is not permitted within the applicable zoning district. In this subsection (1),
an “*” denotes nonresidential uses only.




                                                                                                                                           Sign Type
                                                                                                                                                              Neighborhood                  Off-
           A-                                                                                       Freeway-               Inflated                                          Neighborhood                      Pylon Pylon                          Temporary
                    Animated Awning Bench Changeable Directional Directory                                      Historic              Kiosk Monument Nameplate Entryway                     Premises   Pole                  Sculptured Suspended                 Wall
           Frame                                                                   Electronic/LED Oriented                 Display                                           Entryway                          Sign, Sign,                          Promotional
Zoning              Sign      Sign    Sign Copy Sign Sign                 Sign                                  Marker                Sign Sign        Sign   Monument                      Development Sign                 Sign       Sign                      Sign
           Sign                                                                                     Sign                   Sign                                              Sign                              Minor Major                          Sign
District                                                                                                                                                      Sign                          Sign
A                                                                  P                      C*                       P                          C*          P                                        C                                                       P*      C
Zones

R-1                                                                P                      C*                       P                          C*          P          C              P              C                                                       P*
Zone

RR-22                                                              P                      C*                       P                          C*          P          C              P              P                                                       P*
Zone

R-2                                                                P                      C*                       P                          C*          P          C              P              C                                                       P*
Zone

R-3                                                                P          P           C*                       P                          C*          P          C              P              C                                                       P*
Zone

R-4                                                                P          P           C*                       P                          C*          P          C              P              C                                                       P*
Zone

RM-6                                                               P          P           C*                       P                           C          P          C              P              C                                                       P
Zone

RM-8                                                               P          P           C*                       P                           C          P          C              P              C                                                       P
Zone

RM-12                                                              P          P           C*                       P                           C          P          C              P              C                                                       P
Zone

RM-18                                                              P          P           C*                       P                           C          P          C              P              C                                                       P
Zone

C-N             P                P                   P             P          P              P                     P                           P          P                                        P                                C                      P       P
Zone

C-PO            P      C                             P             P          P              P                     P                           P          P                                        P                                C                      P*      P
Zone

C-G             P      C         P                   P             P          P              P                     P          P                P          P                                        P     P                          C          P           P       P
Zone

C-D             P      C         P                   P             P          P              P                     P          P                P          P                                        P     P                          C          P           P       P
Zone

C-R             P      C         P                   P             P          P              P           C         P          P                P          P                                        P     P                          C          P           P       P
Zone

PCC             P      C         P                   P             P          P              P           C         P          P                P          P                                        P     P                          C          P           P       P
Zone

M                                                    P             P          P              P                     P                           P          P                                        P                                C                      P       P
Zone

P-OS                   C                             P             P          P              P                     P                           P          P                                              C                                                         P
Zone

(2) Sign Standards.

                                                            SIGN STANDARDS
                               Maximum
                SIGN TYPE                            Max.                                           Front
                              Area (square                             Density      Spacing
                                               Height/Projection                                   Setback
                                  feet)
            A-frame signs*     10 s.f. per       Height: 4 feet        One per    75 feet from    Signs must
                              sign face with                           business    any other     be within 20
                               a maximum                                              sign        feet of the
                               of two sign                                                         primary




                                          The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                          Page 8 of 14


                        faces                                                              entrance to
                                                                                           the business

   Animated         Integrated in           N/A                N/A             N/A             N/A
   signs            the design of
                       another
                      approved
                    sign and not
                      to exceed
                     25% of the
                    area of such
                         sign

   Awning signs*    Sign: 25% of       Height: 5 feet          N/A             N/A           Awnings
                     the building     Projection: 3 feet                                     shall not
                       facade         or less than 33%                                     project into
                       Copy or        of window height                                      any public
                    design: 25%                                                              R.O.W.
                    of the awning
                         area

   Changeable        Integrated             N/A                N/A             N/A             N/A
   copy signs*      with another
                      approved
                    sign and not
                      to exceed
                     30% of the
                    area of such
                         sign

   Directional            6            Height: 6 feet      See spacing     50 feet from     Public use
   signs*                                                                   any other       directional
                                                                           freestanding     signs may
                                                                               sign         be located
                                                                                           within public
                                                                                           rights-of-way
                                                                                              Other
                                                                                            directional
                                                                                             signs: 18
                                                                                              inches

   Directory              50           Height: 10 feet     One for each        N/A            10 feet
   signs*                                                    primary
                                                           entrance into
                                                                a
                                                           commercial,
                                                           industrial or
                                                              office
                                                             complex

   Electronic/LED    Integrated             N/A                N/A             N/A             N/A
                    with another
                      approved
                      sign up to
                     50% of sign
                         area

   Flags/blade           N/A          Height: Maximum       Allowed in     25 feet from      May not
   signs                                   15 feet          groups of       any other       extend into
                                                               three       freestanding    or over any
                                                                               sign        public right-
                                                                                            of-way or
                                                                                           parking area

   Freeway-              950           Height: 50 feet     See spacing     One sign for        N/A
   oriented          For master          For master                         each 1,000
   signs*, **          planned            planned                             feet of
                    developments       developments                          highway
                    having 5,000      having 5,000 l.f.                      frontage
                    l.f. or more of      or more of
                    frontage on a      frontage on a
                    freeway, not        freeway, not
                     more than         more than one
                    one sign may sign may be up to
                       be up to       72 feet in height
                     1,500 s.f.,
                    including the
                     area of any
                      shopping
                     center logo

   Historical             8            Height: 6 feet          N/A             N/A            10 feet
   markers*

   Inflated sign         N/A           Height: 25 feet       One per       200 feet from        In
   display*                                                commercial       any other      compliance
                                                           complex or      freestanding        with
                                                           one for each        sign        setbacks of
                                                           business not                     the zone in
                                                           located in a                     which the
                                                           commercial                         sign is
                                                             complex                         located.

   Kiosk sign*      Overall kiosk      Height: 12 feet         N/A         300 feet from       N/A




                                  The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                          Page 9 of 14


                    sign: 12 feet                                            any other
                      x 4 feet 6                                             kiosk sign,
                       inches                                               50 feet from
                    Sign panels:                                             any other
                    1 foot x 4 feet                                         freestanding
                                                                                sign

   Monument               50             Height: All         One per        Not less than   18 inches
   signs              60 for city     monument signs          eligible      100 feet from
                      signs on          shall sit on a     development.      any other
                        public         base not less           One          freestanding
                       property         than 2 feet in       additional         sign.
                                      height. The sign     sign may be           On
                                       itself shall not     obtained for     secondary
                                       exceed 6 feet.         eligible      side streets,
                                       The cumulative      development      a monument
                                         height of a       with frontage sign shall not
                                       monument sign       on 2 or more      be placed
                                      shall not exceed     streets. The      within 200
                                      8 feet. In the C-D      second         feet of any
                                          zone, the         monument         residential
                                      maximum height       sign must be zone or use.
                                       shall be 6 feet,     located on
                                       measured from            the
                                         the nearest        secondary
                                          sidewalk           frontage.
                                         elevation.

   Neighborhood           20           Height: 4 feet       2 per main      50 feet from     20 feet
   entryway                           above grade or 6       entrance        any other
   monument                            feet above the          along         monument
   sign*                               elevation of the    collector and      sign, 100
                                      nearest sidewalk,       arterial      feet from any
                                        whichever is        streets for         other
                                           greater         each planned     entrance or
                                                           development        pole sign
                                                                and
                                                            subdivision

   Neighborhood           20               Height:          2 per main      50 feet from     10 feet,
   entryway sign*                     incorporated into      entrance        any other      outside of
                                      a wall to assume         along        neighborhood clear vision
                                      the approved wall collector and         entryway        area
                                           height             arterial        sign, 100
                                                              streets       feet from any
                                                                                other
                                                                            monument or
                                                                              pole sign

   Off-premises           32           Height: 8 feet      One sign per     50 feet from    18 inches
   development                                             25 residential    any other
   signs*                                                    units in a     freestanding
                                                           development,        sign or
                                                            maximum 2         structure
                                                               signs

   Pole signs*       80% of the        Height: 25 feet     One sign per 200 feet from       18 inches
                        street                             nonresidential    any other
                     frontage of                           development       pole sign,
                     the lot upon                            which is       150 feet from
                      which the                            developed on         any
                     sign will be                           a site equal     monument
                    located up to                          to or greater    sign, and 50
                     a maximum                             than 5 acres feet from any
                    of 200 square                          in size. One         other
                         feet                                additional     freestanding
                                                           sign may be          sign
                                                            obtained for
                                                              eligible
                                                           nonresidential
                                                           developments
                                                           with frontage
                                                           on 2 or more
                                                              streets.

   Pylon sign,            64           Height: 12 feet     Approved as Not less than        18 inches
   minor                                                   an element of 150 feet from
                                                              a sign         any other
                                                           development      freestanding
                                                            plan for an      sign within
                                                             approved        the same
                                                            commercial      development
                                                           development
                                                           of at least 20
                                                               acres

   Pylon sign,           200           Height: 25 feet     Approved as 200 feet from        18 inches
   major                                                   an element of     any other
                                                              a sign        pylon sign or
                                                           development        pole sign
                                                            plan for an      within the




                                  The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                                    Page 10 of 14


                                                                    approved          same
                                                                   commercial      development,
                                                                  development 150 feet from
                                                                  of at least 20       any
                                                                      acres         monument
                                                                                    sign within
                                                                                    the same
                                                                                   development,
                                                                                   and 75 feet
                                                                                     from any
                                                                                      other
                                                                                   freestanding
                                                                                    sign within
                                                                                    the same
                                                                                   development

           Sculptured        As approved       Height: 8 feet          N/A             N/A           10 feet
           signs              by planning      above grade or
                              commission      10 feet above the
                                               elevation of the
                                              nearest sidewalk,
                                                whichever is
                                                   greater

           Suspended                4                N/A               N/A             N/A            N/A
           signs

           Temporary         Wall banners:     Wall banners:      Wall banners:        Wall       Wall banners
           promotional           30 s.f.             N/A             One per       banners: N/A     shall be
           signs*            Freestanding Freestanding sign business plus Freestanding              securely
                             signs: 50 s.f.     height: 8 feet    one additional    signs: 50     attached to
                                                                  banner for a feet from any the building
                                                                    business          other         facade.
                                                                   located in a    freestanding Freestanding
                                                                     building          sign        signs: 18
                                                                  having a front                     inches
                                                                   face of 150                    Searchlights:
                                                                   l.f. or more                   50 feet from
                                                                  Freestanding                    the edge of
                                                                   signs: One                      any street
                                                                  per business.                    pavement
                                                                  Sign shall be
                                                                    securely
                                                                   attached to
                                                                   the ground.

           Wall signs*           15% of         Height: N/A          Allowed           N/A            N/A
                               facade for      Projection from    primary wall
                              primary wall building: not more       sign area
                               sign. Two       than 18 inches        may be
                               secondary                           divided into
                             wall signs: up                       multiple signs
                               to 30 s.f.                         on the same
                                  each                               facade

*    This section is subject to exceptions and qualifications in RCC 18.150.120.

**   No more than one sign per development, with a minimum of 20 acres and 1,000 feet of contiguous frontage
on a freeway, required. In addition, a minimum of 300 feet between freeway signs, and a minimum separation of
100 feet from any other freestanding sign, is required.

[Ord. 20-17 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-16 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-01 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 18-34 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 16-08
§ 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-08 §§ 1(C), (D); Ord. 09-05 §§ 1 – 3; Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A).
Code 1997 § 12-322-102.]

18.150.120 Exceptions and qualifications for specific sign types.
(1) Awning Signs. Awning signs may be displayed, but striping shall not consist of more than one color (including
black and white). The background shall not be considered design space.

(2) Bus Bench Signs and Bus Shelter Signs. Signs on bus benches and bus shelters are not permitted.

(3) Directional Signs.

      (a) Off-premises private directional signs are permissible only in cases where, due to its unusual location,
      a business is not easily seen from or is not located near a street.

      (b) Private directional signs shall contain only the name or logo of an establishment or directions such as
      “parking,” “drive-thru,” or “exit.”

(4) Freeway-Oriented Signs. Freeway-oriented signs shall be designed with architecture and materials
consistent with the approved site and structures. A minimum of the lower one-fourth of the height of the sign
shall consist of masonry such as brick, or stone with color and material to match approved building architecture
of the site.

(5) Historical Monuments and Markers. Monuments or markers designating historic sites may be constructed in
all zones with planning commission approval. Historic monuments and markers shall be constructed of masonry
or noncorrodible metal materials or other materials as approved by the planning commission.

(6) Home Occupation Signs. Home occupation nameplate signs shall be limited to one unanimated,
nonilluminated wall sign for each street upon which the dwelling fronts. The sign shall not have an area greater
than four square feet, except on arterial and collector streets, where signage shall not have an area greater than
eight square feet. Minimal mailbox identification is permitted.




                                            The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                               Page 11 of 14



(7) Inflated Sign Displays.

     (a) Display Period. Inflated signs may be displayed for no longer than 14 consecutive days per calendar
     quarter and no longer than 30 days during a grand opening.

     (b) Safety. Inflated signs shall be placed upon and securely tethered to the ground, and shall be located in a
     manner that they shall not obstruct the use of public rights-of-way or otherwise constitute a safety hazard.
     Flammable gases shall not be utilized for inflated signs. Use of flammable gases shall constitute a hazard,
     subject to the immediate removal provisions of Article V of this chapter.

(8) Monument Signs.

     (a) Height. The height of a monument sign may vary depending on the grading of landscaping upon which
     the sign is located. However, the combined height of the sign plus any landscape berming shall not exceed
     eight feet above the elevation of the nearest sidewalk. In order for this result to occur, the entire frontage of
     the site which the sign serves, not just the sign location, must have berming incorporated into the
     landscape design.

     (b) Construction. A monument sign shall be constructed of brick or masonry materials which match the
     buildings identified by the monument sign, and shall be designed to be harmonious with the building
     architecture.

(9) Off-Premises Development Signs.

     (a) Sign Density Interpretation. The density standard of one sign per 25 residential units shall mean the
     following: One sign is allowed for a development with up to 25 residential units, an additional sign is allowed
     for a development with between 26 and 50 residential units, and so forth, with a maximum of three signs.

     (b) Illumination. Off-premises construction or development signs shall not be illuminated.

     (c) Display Period. Signs must be removed within one year from the date of issuance of the last building
     permit within a development. Signs may not be modified to advertise other developments, or general
     advertising for a developer.

(10) Pole Signs. Notwithstanding the density standards for pole signs listed in RCC 18.150.110, the owner or
lessee of a pad site contained within a nonresidential development for which a sign development plan has been
approved shall not be permitted to have a pole sign upon the pad site solely by reason of the frontage, unless the
pole sign was approved as part of the sign development plan. Pole signs shall be located as close to the
midpoint of a lot or development as possible.

(11) Temporary Signs.

     (a) All temporary signs shall be securely attached to a building or to the ground.

     (b) There shall be no specific spacing requirement between freestanding temporary signs and other
     temporary or permanent signs. However, signs shall be placed as far apart as possible in order to provide
     equal visibility for all signs.

     (c) Except for the signs permitted by subsection (13) of this section, no sign shall be located within a street
     right-of-way or within clear vision areas at intersections of streets or intersections of streets and
     driveways.

(12) Promotional Signs.

     (a) Promotional signs include banners, pennants, streamers, flags, and searchlights, but do not include
     portable signs.

     (b) Display Period. A temporary sign permit may be issued for promotional signage and is valid for a period
     not to exceed 30 consecutive calendar days; however, no such permit may be issued for the same property
     or business more than four times during any calendar year or for longer than 90 total days. A minimum of
     14 days shall elapse between each display period.

     (c) Annual Permit. Each business shall, upon payment of fees as established by the Riverton City council,
     be allowed to purchase at the time of business license receipt/renewal an annual license for display of one
     promotional sign as defined herein. Under the annual permit, there are no limitations on duration of display
     or display periods for the promotional sign. However, such signage must comply with all other applicable
     standards regarding size, location, method of display, and property ownership, and must meet all safety
     requirements. Violation of these standards may result in revocation of the annual permit, which may then be
     renewed with the business license. Businesses who do not apply for an annual permit may display
     promotional signs based on the standards contained herein.

     (d) Searchlights. Searchlights shall be directed upward at an angle of at least 45 degrees and operated only
     between dusk and 11:59 p.m.

     (e) Temporary Promotional Signs in P-O Zones. The use of a temporary promotional sign in P-O zones
     shall be limited to one temporary promotional sign at any given time regardless of the number of
     businesses occupying the building(s) on the individual parcel.

     (f) Grand Opening Signage. Businesses shall be allowed display of temporary promotional signage for a
     period of 45 days beginning no more than 10 days prior to the projected opening date. Businesses are
     allowed one banner sign and up to three other promotional signs, in compliance with the provisions of this
     chapter.

(13) Use of Temporary Signs during Periods of Major Street Construction.

     (a) Portable signs may be placed in the public right-of-way to mark points of ingress and egress. Such
     signs may include the message “Business Access Only,” an arrow directing patrons to a driveway and the
     name or logo of the business.

     (b) The maximum display period for temporary signs used during periods of major street construction shall
     only be for the duration of the construction period. Such signs shall be removed within 10 business days




                                       The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                                Page 12 of 14


     after construction in front of the affected business is completed.

     (c) Businesses may qualify for these exceptions only if major construction is materially impairing the
     primary access to the business.

(14) Wall Signs in Professional Office Zones. Wall signs in professional office zones shall consist only of the
name of the occupant of the building.

(15) Neighborhood Entryway Signs.

     (a) If neighborhood entryway signs are utilized, the maximum number of signs on each side of an entry
     point shall be one sign.

     (b) All neighborhood entryway signs shall be architecturally compatible with on-site signs, structures and
     streetscape walls.

     (c) Changeable copy, illumination, pan channel letters, cabinet, and painted signs are prohibited. [Ord. 20-
     17 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-08 § 1(B); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh.
     A). Code 1997 § 12-322-103.]

18.150.130 Visual appearance of signage along major streets.
All signage along major streets shall be of a similar type and appearance to create an impression that is
consistent with the visual character of Riverton City. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-
24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-322-104.]

18.150.140 Prohibited signs.
The following signs are prohibited:

(1) Portable Signs. Movable or portable signs and signs not permanently installed in the ground or on a pole or
building, except as specifically allowed by this chapter.

(2) Signs on Public Property. Signs located on public property; within street rights-of-way, including sidewalks;
or those attached to any structure or appurtenance on public property; however, the following signs may be
displayed on public property subject to the provisions of this chapter:

     (a) Public necessity signs, traffic regulatory signs, and directional signs related to public uses and facilities
     installed by a governmental agency;

     (b) Temporary signs, placed during major street construction as described in RCC 18.150.120(13); and

     (c) Handheld signs, no larger than six square feet in size, displayed by individuals on traditional public fora,
     including public sidewalks, in such a way that the sign does not unreasonably impede or inhibit pedestrian
     and other traffic on or over the public property; impede or inhibit ingress or egress to buildings or other
     areas which must be accessed from or over the public property; or, subject to constitutionally protected
     rights, create a hazard, or which unreasonably restricts the lawful use of the public property by others.

(3) Bus Bench/Shelter Signs. Bus benches and bus shelters signs.

(4) Home Occupation Signs. Home occupation signs except for nameplate signs.

(5) Signs Which Distract. Signs which simulate or imitate in size, coloring, lettering or design any traffic sign or
signal, or use the words “STOP,” “YIELD,” “DANGER,” or any other words, phrases, symbols or characters in
such a way as to interfere with, mislead or confuse drivers.

(6) Portable reader signs.

(7) Obsolete or Abandoned Signs. Obsolete or abandoned signs or messages which identify services no longer
provided on the premises. Conforming sign structures may remain on a site but all sign copy shall be removed
and the sign shall be covered with a durable opaque material to prevent deterioration during the period in which
the sign structure is unused.

(8) Flashing Signs. Signs with flashing or strobe-like lighting effects.

(9) Signs with Sound-Emitting Devices. Any sign equipped with any device which creates or amplifies sound.

(10) Extending Signs. Signs that project more than 24 inches from a wall.

(11) Signs in Clear Vision Zone. Signs located within the clear vision zone.

(12) Snipe signs.

(13) Vehicle signs.

(14) Roof Signs. Any sign mounted on the top of, or roof of, any building or structure.

(15) Any other sign not complying with the provisions of this chapter or any prior ordinance. [Ord. 16-08 § 1
(Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-322-105.]

                                         Article IV. Nonconforming Signs

18.150.150 Nonconforming signs.
(1) Legal Nonconforming Sign. Any sign lawfully erected prior to November 18, 2008, which exceeds the
limitations of this chapter shall be deemed legal, but nonconforming, and may continue to exist until made
conforming or abandoned. Legal nonconforming signs are an accessory structure to the principal structure or
use on the lot and shall become illegal by the occurrence of the earliest of any of the following events:

     (a) Any modification of the appearance of the sign, except for normal maintenance necessary to retain its
     original appearance;

     (b) Removal of the sign, except for when done for purposes of normal maintenance, in which case the sign
     must be replaced within 14 calendar days after removal for maintenance;

     (c) Destruction, remodeling, repair or other construction related to the sign or of the building having a
     business subject of advertising on said sign caused by deterioration, fire, calamity or other event, to an




                                        The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                               Page 13 of 14


     extent that the cost of said remodeling, repair or other construction work exceeds 50 percent of the original
     cost of said building or sign subject of such work;

     (d) The sign or any support structure of the sign is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the structure is
     rendered unusable and is not repaired or restored within six months after written notice to the property
     owner that the sign is unusable and the nonconforming sign will be lost if the sign is not repaired or restored
     within six months; or

     (e) A change of an occupancy or classification of use is made and such change results in a higher intensity
     of use on the lot or in the building on which a legal nonconforming sign was located.

(2) Removal. Upon becoming nonconforming and illegal, any nonconforming sign shall immediately be removed
or made to comply with all requirements of this chapter. Nonconforming signs which are not removed shall be
subject to the enforcement provisions found in Article V of this chapter.

(3) Unlawful Signs. Any sign unlawfully erected prior to November 18, 2008, shall be deemed to be
nonconforming and shall be immediately removed. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24
§ 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-323-101.]

                                       Article V. Enforcement and Appeals

18.150.160 Enforcement.
(1) Supplemental Regulations. The provisions of this section apply specifically to signs and are intended to
supplement the general enforcement provisions established throughout this chapter.

(2) Authority to Enforce. The planning department, or the code enforcement division or any designee of the
mayor, shall have authority to enforce this chapter. In exercising this authority, the code enforcement division
may institute any appropriate action to correct violations of this chapter. Enforcement actions may include civil
abatement proceedings and other enforcement procedures as provided by law. Such actions include, but are not
limited to, the following:

     (a) Determine Conformance. Ascertain that all signs and the erection, construction, reconstruction,
     location, relocation, placement, replacement, extension, enlargement, modification, alteration, restoration,
     repair and use of all signs are in conformance with this chapter.

     (b) Issue Citations and Complaints. Issue citations and/or commence civil complaints against violators of
     this chapter.

     (c) Remove Signs. Remove any sign in accordance with this chapter.

     (d) Confiscate Signs. Confiscate any signs that are removed under this section.

(3) Removal of Illegal Signs. Signs displayed contrary to the provisions of this chapter are subject to removal as
set forth herein. The code enforcement division may remove signs as follows:

     (a) Unsafe Signs or Signs in Disrepair. Any sign that is in disrepair, unsafe, unstable, or otherwise creates
     a safety hazard shall be repaired or removed by the owner within 24 hours after being served with written
     notice by the city. Any sign which is not repaired or removed within the 24-hour period shall be removed
     immediately without further notice to the owner.

     (b) Signs on Public Property. Any sign illegally on public property, as described in RCC 18.150.140, shall
     be removed immediately without notice to the owner.

     (c) Signs without a Permit. Signs installed without a permit may be removed immediately without notice to
     the owner and may be assessed a penalty of $100.00 or double the normal sign permit fee, whichever is
     greater, at the time the owner of the sign makes application for a sign permit.

     (d) Withdrawal of Consent. If a property owner upon whose property a sign is placed withdraws, in writing,
     his or her consent to the placement of the sign, the sign shall be removed within 30 calendar days of the
     date the property owner withdraws his or her consent. If the sign is not removed within the above-described
     time period, the city may remove the sign immediately without further notice to the owner.

     (e) Abandoned Signs. Any abandoned sign may be removed within seven calendar days after the owner is
     served with written notice.

     (f) Illegal Signs. Any sign in violation of this chapter may be removed immediately if the illegal sign is not
     brought into compliance within seven calendar days after the owner is served with written notice.

     (g) Immediate Removal. Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter, any sign that creates an immediate
     safety hazard to persons or property may be removed or repaired immediately by the city, without notice to
     the owner.

(4) Service of Notice. Notice required under this section may be served by personal service, or mailing notice to
the person, firm or corporation by certified mail. If service of notice is performed by mailing as provided in this
section, the planning department or code enforcement division must also cause a copy of said notice to be
posted on the sign installation for 10 days.

(5) Costs of Removal. The costs of removal of a sign by the city shall be borne by the owner of the sign and of
the property on which it is located. Therefore, the city may bring any action for recovery allowed by law and may
seek recovery of all costs, including attorney fees, incurred in bringing such an action.

     (a) Confiscation and Destruction. After impounding a sign, the city shall make a reasonable effort to identify
     and contact the owner of the sign in order to notify them of the reason why the sign was impounded, the
     location where the sign may be retrieved if the owner wishes to do so, and the time period within which the
     sign must be retrieved. Notification may be provided in person or by U.S. Mail. After the owner is notified of
     the impoundment, the city shall store the sign for 14 calendar days. The person responsible for the sign
     may claim it only after paying an impound fee if established by resolution of the city council. If after 14 days
     the sign has not been claimed, it will be destroyed.

(6) Prosecution. Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is a class B misdemeanor and subject to criminal
prosecution, regardless of whether notice for remediation or removal has been given. However, if the owner,
lessee, or other person responsible for the display of the illegal sign has not removed the illegal sign or brought it




                                       The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.150 SIGN REGULATION ORDINANCE                                                               Page 14 of 14


into compliance with the provisions of this chapter by the end of the notice period, it is the duty of the planning
department or code enforcement division to forward the information regarding the illegal sign to the city
prosecutor for appropriate action. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24 § 1 (Exh. A).
Code 1997 § 12-324-101.]

18.150.170 Appeals.
Appeals of decisions implementing or interpreting the provisions of this chapter shall be made pursuant to the
appeals provisions set forth in RCC 2.80.050. [Ord. 16-08 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-04 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 08-24 § 1
(Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-324-102.]




                                       The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 21-17, passed June 15, 2021.
