                                         RIVERTON        CITY, UTAH
                                          RESOLUTION           NO. 20- 54


 A RESOLUTION           OF THE GOVERNING               BODY OF RIVERTON CITY APPROVING                     A
    STUDY REQUIRED UNDER UTAH CODE § 10- 8- 2 AND SALES TAX REVENUE
        SHARING AGREEMENT                  WITH COSTCO WHOLESALE                      CORPORATION

         WHEREAS,         Pursuant to Utah Code §       10- 8- 2, the Riverton City Council can appropriate
revenue for corporate purposes, and a corporate purpose includes any transaction which in the
judgment of the Riverton City Council provides for the safety, health, prosperity, moral well-
being, peace, order, comfort, or convenience of the inhabitants of Riverton City; and

        WHEREAS, a key component of improving the prosperity and convenience of Riverton
citizens is to attract employment centers in Riverton City and to attract businesses which provide
for goods and services to be purchased locally; and

       WHEREAS, Costco Wholesale Corporation is a supplier of goods and services to more
than half of the residents of Riverton City; and

         WHEREAS,         Costco Wholesale Corporation is also a large scale employment center
wherever a Costco Wholesale Warehouse can be found; and


         WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council therefore finds and determines that appropriating
funds to induce Costco Wholesale Corporation to locate a warehouse in Riverton City, in
principle, can advance a corporate purpose of Riverton City; and

         WHEREAS, Costco Wholesale Corporation is considering whether to develop a
wholesale warehouse in Riverton City, and

         WHEREAS, as an inducement to develop in Riverton, Costco Wholesale Corporation
desires to reach an agreement      with Riverton City to receive 50% of the sales tax revenue

generated at a Costco Warehouse in Riverton, for up to twelve years from the commencement
date of December 31, 2013 or if Costco Wholesale opens a warehouse in Riverton before
December 31, 2013, the commencement date shall be on the date said warehouse is opened to the
public; and

        WHEREAS, the aggregate amount paid to Costco Wholesale Corporation under the
proposed agreement could not exceed the cap of$6,250,000.00; and

        WHEREAS, before reaching the conclusion that appropriation of funding in this
particular   transaction facilitates   a corporate
                                                     purpose   described   above,   Utah Code § 10- 8- 2
requires that Riverton perform a study that analyzes and demonstrates the purpose for the
appropriation;    and
       WHEREAS, Riverton City staff has undertaken such a study showing that the value of a
Costco Wholesale Warehouse opening in Riverton City would exceed the amount appropriated
under a proposed Sales Tax Revenue Sharing Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, this matter was brought before the Riverton City Council following a
public hearing after issuance of public notice as provided by law;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Riverton City, State of Utah,
as follows:


    1.   The Riverton City Council finds and determines that the study advanced by Riverton City
         staff demonstrates that the value of bringing a Costco Wholesale Warehouse to Riverton
         in the form of enhancements to the prosperity and convenience to Riverton residents
         meets or exceeds the value of sums appropriate under the proposed Sales Tax Revenue
         Sharing Agreement. The Riverton City Council accordingly approves the study attached
         hereto.


   2.    The attached Sales Tax Revenue Sharing Agreement with Costco Wholesale Corporation
         is hereby approved in substantially similar form as provided in the Council Packet. The
         Mayor is authorized to make any non-material changes to the essential terms of the
         Agreement prior to signing the same, and may further sign the Agreement once the same
         has been approved as to form by the Riverton City Attorney.

         PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, this 18th day of
August 2020 by the following vote:

                                             YES     NO
         Council Member Tish Buroker
         Member Tawnee McCay
         Council Member Troy McDougal
         Council Member Sheldon Stewart
         Council Member Claude Wells


                                                     RIVERTON     CITY


                   SEAL]




ATTEST:                                              Sheldon Stewart, Mayor Pro Tempore




Virginia Loader, Recorder
                    nui



                    Q



 RIVERTON
            UTAH



            RIVERTON              CITY WORK SESSION /           COUNCIL MEETING


                                              August 1, 2020




FROM:              Ryan Carter




SUBJECT:       Approval of Resolution authorizing         the Mayor to execute a Sales Tax Revenue
               Sharing Agreement with Costco.




                                             I.   INTRODUCTION:


        Costco recently disclosed to Riverton City that it is proposing to construct a new wholesale
warehouse at the approximate location of 13200 South and 4570 West. A component of Costco' s
proposal to construct such a warehouse would include an Agreement with the City to share sales tax
revenue that a new Costco warehouse would generate in Riverton. Costco proposes to share, on a 50-
50 basis, sales tax generated at a Riverton Costco warehouse and remitted to the City by the State of
Utah. The amount to be paid to Costco will be capped at the amount of$ 6, 250, 000. Our current
sales tax estimates project that the capped amount will be reached approximately ten years after a
Costco warehouse opens in Riverton. We therefore expect to pay approximately $ 625, 000 to Costco
annually while retaining the same amount. While this introductory paragraph has framed the issue as
though it arose from a proposal made by Costco, it is important to remain mindful that options are
available for Costco to locate in the vicinity, but outside of Riverton' s municipal territory. Therefore,
any sales tax agreement should be recognized as an inducement to bring a Costco warehouse to
Riverton.


        Pursuant    to    Utah Code Ann. §10- 8- 2, the City Council may share sales tax revenues
otherwise due to the City if the Riverton City Council finds and determines that the value which the
underlying project provides to the citizens of Riverton equals the value of the sales tax provided to
Costco.    To explain, under § 10- 8- 2, a municipal legislative body may appropriate money for
 corporate  purposes only."  However a" corporate purpose" includes, " any purpose that, in the



                                                      1
judgment of the municipal legislative body, provides for the safety, health, prosperity, moral well-
being, peace,   order,   comfort,   or convenience   of the inhabitants of the municipality."        That said, the

statute and opinions issued by the Utah Supreme Court require that the value of monies appropriated
by a municipal legislative body must be at least equal to the value of the benefits which flow to the
community by virtue of the appropriation. In balancing the values of the appropriation against the
community benefit, the statute allows the municipal legislative body to decide what constitutes the
value received, and the legislative body' s determination of the value received is presumed valid
unless a person can show the determination was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.

       Utah Code Ann. § 10- 8- 2 also requires that the benefits be compared with the value of the

appropriation in some form of a study. In the present case, this means the City Council must approve
a study that concludes the value of having a Costco warehouse locate in Riverton equals or exceeds
the value of the sales tax which we provide Costco, as an inducement to locate in Riverton. Again,
the City Council may take into account any number of tangible or intangible benefits which Riverton
citizens receive from the location of a Costco warehouse in Riverton.


        This Memorandum provides an analysis of some of the benefits which the community
receives if a Costco warehouse is constructed in Riverton, under the inducement created by a Sales
Tax Revenue Sharing Agreement. If the Council adopts the findings and conclusions of this
Memorandum after holding a public hearing, it will have complied with the procedural requirements
of Utah Code Ann. § 10- 8- 2.




                                     II. EMPLOYMENT               OPPORTUNITIES




      Using data provided by Costco, Riverton City has learned that a Costco warehouse will
become one of the largest employment centers in the City immediately upon opening. The average
Costco warehouse       features 275 employees.       Note:    this number does not include seasonal employees

who would be hired during holidays or other times of unique demand. Seasonal employees can be
hired in number equal to 7- 8% of the existing workforce.


        The average length of time a regular employee serves a Costco warehouse is 9. 5 years. The
average employee age is 40. 4 years. The longer length of service years for employees stems from
another facet of Costco' s employment culture, which is that Costco generously compensates its
employees.      The   average   compensation   for cashiers      alone   is $ 47, 840.   Cashiers also receive annual

bonuses between$ 5, 000 and$ 8, 000, depending on years of service, and are paid 1. 5 times their
regular salary for working on Sundays.         Therefore, it is not unusual for Costco cashiers to earn close
to $60, 000 in a year.

        Employees are also offered several benefits, including medical, dental, pharmacy, vision, life
and disability insurance coverage. With the exception of disability insurance, benefits offered by
Costco will cover family members as well. Over 87% of employees receive some form of coverage.




                                                             2
         In sum, Costco estimates that the aggregate payroll for the first year following the opening of
a   Costco warehouse  will be roughly equal to $ 5. 5 million. In addition, approximately$ 3 million in

benefits will be paid on behalf of Costco employees. By the fifth year in operation, Costco' s payroll
is estimated to equal $ 7. 5 million, plus benefits. Therefore, the conclusion of this memorandum in
light of what Utah Code Ann. § 10- 8- 2 requires       is: the economic benefit which Riverton City will
receive in the form of annual payroll more than equals the value of the sales tax revenue it will share
with Costco each year. We also note that the value of the insurance benefits provided to employees
has a stabilizing effect on the community, which constitutes an intangible benefit which arises from
the inducement of bringing Costco to Riverton.


                                        III. PROPERTY           TAX REVENUES.




         Costco estimates that the size of its future Riverton Warehouse operation will be similar in
     scale   to   its South Jordan location.   Therefore,   a reasonable estimate of the future Riverton

     Costco' s assessed value for property tax purposes can be derived by looking at the current
     assessed value of the South Jordan Costco, which is $ 15, 226, 300.    While Riverton City does not
     directly levy property taxes, it controls or will control two service areas which will do so.
     Riverton City estimates from the assessed value of the South Jordan Costco and use of the current
     property tax rates that the service areas will yield the following property tax revenues. Either the
     future Riverton Fire Service Area or the Unified Fire Service area will yield $26, 143. 56 in future
     property tax revenues. The Riverton Law Enforcement Service Area will yield $ 25, 351. 79 in
     property tax revenue from a Riverton Costco.




                                    IV. REDUCING TRAFFIC CONGESTION.



     Over one- half of the households in Riverton City annually pay for Costco memberships. The
closest Costco warehouse which a Riverton resident can visit is located in South Jordan, at the
address of 3571 West 10400 South. To get a better understanding of the distances which Riverton
residents travel to South Jordan Costco warehouse in Riverton, staff plotted the distances between the
South Jordan Costco and five properties         owned by Riverton     City, one in each voting district:   1)

Foothills Park at 13825 South Shaggy Peak Drive; 2) Canyonview Park at 12260 South Huron Road;
3) Centennial Park at 13000 South 2700 West; 4) Margaret Park at 1170 West Timp Vista Drive; and
5), the Riverton Cemetery at 1528 West 13200 South. Staff then compared the travel distances
between each of the 5 aforementioned locations and the South Jordan Costco, with the travel
distances between these locations and the future Riverton Costco site at 13200 South and 4570 West.


     The travel distance from Foothills Park to the South Jordan Costco is 6. 1 miles. The travel
distance from Foothills Park to the future Riverton Costco is 1. 2 miles. Therefore, residents who live
in the vicinity of the Foothills Park will save slightly under ten miles of travel each time they visit
Costco. If a resident in this area visits Costco once per month at the future Riverton location instead



                                                            3
of the South Jordan location, the resident will save approximately 120 travel miles per year. Results
will vary depending on the address of any given resident.

    The travel distance from Centennial Park to the South Jordan Costco is 4. 5 miles. The travel
distance from Centennial Park to the future Riverton Costco is 3. 1 miles. Therefore, residents who
live in the vicinity of the Foothills Park will save 2. 8 three miles of travel each time they visit Costco.
If a resident in this area visits Costco once per month at the future Riverton location instead of the
South Jordan location, the resident will save approximately 33. 6 travel miles per year. Results will
vary depending on the address of any given resident.

    The travel distance from the Riverton Cemetery to the South Jordan Costco is 6. 4 miles. The
travel distance from the Riverton Cemetery to the future Riverton Costco is 5. 3 miles. Therefore,
residents who live in the vicinity of the Foothills Park will save under three miles of travel each time
they visit Costco. If a resident in this area visits Costco once per month at the future Riverton
location instead of the South Jordan location, the resident will save approximately 36 travel miles per
year. Results will vary depending on the address of any given resident.

    The travel distance from Margaret Park to the South Jordan Costco and the future Riverton
Costco location are the same at 6. 6 miles. Therefore, residents will live in the vicinity of Margaret
Park will experience no material difference in travel miles to either location per year.

    The travel distance from Canyonview Park to the South Jordan Costco is 4. 2 miles. The travel
distance from the Canyonview Park to the future Riverton Costco is 5. 3 miles.        Therefore, residents
who live in the vicinity of Canyonview Park will likely continue to choose the South Jordan Costco
location, thereby experiencing no increase in travel miles per year.


                                                V.   SUMMARY




         This Memorandum demonstrates that the value of a Costco warehouse in Riverton creates a
benefit which the community receives from gaining employment opportunities. A Riverton Costco
warehouse will greatly enhance the prosperity of the community, which equates to a valid corporate
purpose to appropriate monies in order to induce a major employer to come to Riverton. The actual
value of the employer' s presence in Riverton can be measured by looking at the aggregate payroll
and benefits which Costco will pay its employees: $      8. 5 million in the first year of operation alone.
This by itself is greater than the value of the sales taxes to be shared with Costco per year under a
Sales Tax Revenue Sharing Agreement. Therefore a Sales Tax Revenue Sharing Agreement which
features the terms generally described in this Memorandum is lawful for the City Council to approve
under   Utah Code Ann. § 10- 8- 2.


         Additional benefits accrue for Riverton City when we recognize that a Costco warehouse in
Riverton will lead to a significant reduction in travel miles for Riverton residents who enjoy a Costco
membership. This reduction in travel miles reduces vehicle pollution and reduces wear and tear on
municipal streets, which lowers maintenance costs for the same. This occurs while the City
experiences a property tax yield which pays for providing police fire, and other first responder


                                                      4
services. Accordingly, the conclusion of this Memorandum is the approval of Sales Tax Revenue
Sharing Agreement which meets the parameters described herein will provide benefit to Riverton
City that is of greater value than the amounts appropriated under the Agreement.




                                                5
                                SALES TAX REVENUE SHARING AGREEMENT



         This SALES TAX REVENUE                           SHARING AGREEMENT ( this " Agreement")                  is
entered into as of the           18th day of August, 2020 (" Effective Date"), by and between COSTCO
WHOLESALE CORPORATION,                               a   Washington         corporation ("   Costco"), and the RIVERTON
CITY, a Utah Municipal Corporation(                      the "    City"). Costco and the City are hereinafter
individually sometimes referred to as a" Party" and collectively as the " Parties."
                                                          RECITALS

         A.
                       WHEREAS, the City Utah municipal corporation is entering into this Agreement
pursuant      to   its authority to contract        under   Utah Code Ann. § 10- 1- 201; and

         B.
               WHEREAS, Costco is the contract purchaser of approximately 16 acres of real
property located north and east of the intersection of 13200 South Street and the Mountain View
Corridor(      the "   Property");      and

         C.     WHEREAS, Costco intends to acquire the Property and undertake the
development and construction of a wholesale and retail general merchandise facility, which
facility may also include, without limitation, a pharmacy, photo processing, butcher, deli and
bakery services, optometry services, a tire sales and installation center, a propane sales and
fueling center, a vehicle fueling facility, a car wash, related office space, related parking, and
other   improvements (           the " Project");    and

         D.            WHEREAS, the City seeks to encourage commencement and completion of the
Project and, in order to make the Project economically feasible, the City has agreed to rebate to
Costco a portion of the Sales Taxes ( as defined below) that are generated by the Project and
received      by the City in accordance with the terms of this Agreement ( the " Rebate");                  and

         E.
                       WHEREAS, Costco would not proceed with the acquisition of the Property and
the construction            of the Project without the Rebate.


        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals, the covenants and
agreements hereinafter set forth and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:
         1.
                       Incorporation of Recitals. The recitals set forth above are expressly incorporated
into this Agreement by this reference thereto as if fully set forth in this Section 1.
         2.            Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the
meanings       set forth below.

                       a.         Commencement Date. The date on which Costco opens the Project to the
         public for retail, wholesale and gasoline sales, or December 31, 2023, whichever shall
         first occur.

                       b.        Municipal Code. The Municipal Code of Riverton City, Utah.

                                                                 Page   1 of 10
                   c.
                              Payment Date. Provided i) the City has received from the Utah State Tax
Commission("        COMMISSION")          the necessary documentation to establish the amount of sales
tax collected from, and paid to the State by, Costco ( the " Costco Sales Tax Reporting
Documentation");           and ii) the City has received from the Commission the total amount of the
City' s periodic distributive share of sales and use taxes collected from, and paid to the State by,
Costco, payment of the Rebate Amount to Costco by the City shall occur on a quarterly basis
 i.e., on January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1) of each calendar year during the term of this
Agreement with respect to the City' s periodic distributive share of sales and use taxes collected
from , and paid to the state by, Costco and actually received by the City at least thirty( 30) days
prior to the applicable Payment Date.

                   d.        Project. Shall have the meaning set forth in Recital C.
                   e.
                             Property. Shall have the meaning set forth in Recital B.
                   f.        Rebate. Shall have the meaning set forth in Recital D.
                   g.        Rebate Amount. Shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.
                   h.   Remittance Statement. A written statement prepared by the City setting
         forth the amount of Sales Taxes remitted to Costco concurrently therewith and the
         balance of funds remaining to be paid.
                   i.        Sales Taxes. Shall mean the sum of: (1) the taxes imposed from time to

         time by the State, Salt Lake County, or Riverton City as a retailers' sales tax, use tax,
         service tax or any other so- called " sales tax" or similar tax that are paid to the State and
         remitted to the City; pursuant to Title 59, chapter 12, of the Utah Code.

                   j.        State. The State of Utah.

         3.
              Rebate. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the City agrees to
remit to Costco up to 50%
                          of the Sales Taxes generated by the Project during the term of this
Agreement, actually received by the City, and not restricted by state law as to how the revenue
generated may be used by the City. By example ( and without limitation), pursuant to the Local
Options Sales and Use Taxes for Transportation Act, Utah Code Title 59, Chapter 12 Sections
2201   et seq.,   Salt Lake County has adopted a 0. 25%        sales tax which can solely be used for
approved transportation        projects. Thus           taxes derived   from the 0. 25%
                                                sales
                                                                                          sales tax levied by
Salt Lake County, would not be included as a rebate payment if the City directly or indirectly
receives the same.


         4.        Aggregate Rebate Amount and Termination.

                   a.        Costco shall be entitled to a Rebate in the amount of Six Million, Two
         Hundred        Fifty Thousand and No/ 100s Dollars ($ 6, 250, 000. 00), derived from payment of
         sales taxes generated by the project as described in Section 3 above (the " Rebate
         Amount").




                                                   Page   2 of 10
                  b.   The obligation of the City to pay the Rebate Amount shall terminate upon
       the sooner of: (i) the aggregate payment by the City to Costco in an amount equal to the
       Rebate Amount prior to the expiration of the term of this Agreement as set forth in
       Section 6, below; or( ii) the expiration of the term of this Agreement as set forth in
       Section 6 below. Nothing in this Agreement shall obligate the City to make any payment
       toward the Rebate Amount from any source of funds other than the Sales Taxes generated
       by the Project during the term of this Agreement, actually received by the City, and not
       restricted as to how the tax revenue may be used.
                  c.
                      Notwithstanding anything seemingly to the contrary contained in this
       Agreement, Costco shall have no obligation to operate the Project on the Property.
       However, the obligation of the City to pay the Rebate Amount shall be suspended in the
       event the Project shall, at any time after opening to the public, cease to operate for a
       period of more than six ( 6) consecutive     months,    plus any " Excepted Closure Period" ( as
       hereinafter     defined) ( the " Project Has Gone Dark"). For purposes of this Section 4. c,
            Excepted Closure Period" shall mean any period of closure due to: ( i) casualty,         repair,
       reconstruction, remodeling, or re- fixturing if Costco is proceeding with reasonable
       diligence to complete the work and reopen for business; or( ii) unavoidable events
       outside the reasonable control of Costco, including but not limited to acts of God,
       condemnation, other governmental rules, orders, acts or requirements, war, insurrection,
       riot and labor disputes ( but excluding financial                                               If,
                                                              inability or economic   conditions).

       after the Project Has Gone Dark, Costco should re- commence operations of the Project
       on the Property during the term of this Agreement, then the obligation of the City to pay
       the Rebate Amount shall re- commence subject to the terms and conditions of this
       Agreement.

                  d.
                      Costco and the City acknowledge that the City' s obligation hereunder to
       pay the Rebate Amount assumes that the current provisions of Utah law concerning the
       payment of a distributive share to the City of the Sales Taxes by the State of Utah or the
       Commission (" Sales Tax Distribution        Law")      will continue to exist in the same or

       substantially the same form during the term of this Agreement, but further acknowledge
       that the Utah Legislature has from time to time considered modifying or repealing the
       Sales and Use Tax Act. In the event that the State of Utah amends or repeals the Sales
       and Use Tax Act in any way that eliminates the distribution of any of the Sales Taxes to
       the City, or that modifies the distribution of any of the Sales Taxes to the City in any way
       that prevents the City and Costco from determining with a reasonable degree of certainty
       the amount of Sales Taxes generated by the Project and paid to the City, the obligation of
       the City hereunder to pay the Rebate Amount shall terminate as of the effective date of
       such amendment or repeal of the Sales and Use Tax Act with respect to the underlying
       Sales Taxes affected by such amendment or repeal.
       5.
                  Payments. The City shall make payments to Costco on each Payment Date from
and after the Commencement Date for the term of this Agreement and shall concurrently deliver
to Costco a Remittance Statement reflecting such payments. Such payments shall be made solely

                                               Page 3 of 10
from 50%
            of the Sales Taxes generated from the Project that is collected directly by, or remitted
to, the City during the term of this Agreement and agreed to be rebated by the City to Costco
pursuant to Section 3. The payments shall be sent to Costco at the address set forth in Section 9
or to such other address as Costco may hereafter provide by notice. Only monies paid to Costco
by the City shall be applied to the Rebate.
          6.    Term. The term of this Agreement shall end on the first to occur of: (a) the
twelfth( 12th) anniversary of the Commencement Date; or( b) the date Costco has been paid the
entire Rebate Amount. This Agreement shall remain in effect, notwithstanding the foregoing, for
purposes of audit, final accounting, and payment and for purposes of enforcement actions
hereon.

          7.
               Mutual Assistance. The City and Costco agree to do all things reasonably
necessary or appropriate to carry out, and to aid and assist each other in carrying out, the terms of
this Agreement and in implementing the Parties' intent, as reflected by the terms of this
Agreement, including, without limitation, the giving of such notices, the holding of such public
hearings, the enactment by the City of such resolutions and ordinances and the taking of such
actions as may be necessary to enable the Parties' compliance with the terms and provisions of
this Agreement and as may be necessary to give effect to the terms and provisions of this
Agreement and the Parties' intentions as reflected by the terms of this Agreement. No waiver of
City regulations shall be inferred from this Agreement, except as specifically set forth.
          8.
                Reporting Documentation. To the maximum extent permitted by law, the City
shall maintain the confidentiality of the Costco Sales Tax Reporting Documentation received by
the City from the Commission, but shall be permitted to disclose such information to such City
employees and consultants as the City, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate in order to
monitor compliance and audit this Agreement. To the extent permitted by law, the City shall
refuse to disclose the Costco Sales Tax Reporting Documentation received from the State or
otherwise contained in such sales tax reporting forms pursuant to the applicable exemptions from
the Utah Governmental       Records Access Management Act(" GRAMA")          or similar statute, and in

the event the City receives a request pursuant to GRAMA or similar statute which the City
determines to be exempt, then the City shall notify Costco prior to the City responding such
request, and provide Costco with a copy of the request. Costco shall then have the opportunity,
within three ( 3) business days ( or such lesser period of time as may be necessary for the City to
respond to the request within the statutory time   period), to notify the City as to whether it
consents or objects to the request. If no notice is given within said time period, the City may
disclose the information.

          9.   Notices. All notices, demands, consents, approvals and other communications
which are required or desired to be given by either Party to the other hereunder shall be in
writing and shall be hand delivered or sent by United States registered or certified mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the appropriate Party at its address set forth below,
or at such other address as such Party shall have last designated by notice to the other. Notices,
demands, consents, approvals, and other communications shall be deemed given when delivered
or three days after mailing; provided, however, that if any such notice or other communication

                                              Page 4 of 10
shall also be sent by telecopy or fax machine, such notice shall be deemed given at the time and
on the date of machine transmittal if the sending Party receives a written send verification on its
machines and forwards a copy thereof with its mailed or courier delivered notice or
communication.




All notices to the City shall be sent to: Riverton City
          Attn: City Manager
          12830 South Redwood Road
          Riverton, Utah 84065
          Attn:
          Email:
          Fax:



All notices to Costco shall be sent to:

          Costco Wholesale Corporation
          999 Lake Drive
          Issaquah, WA 98027

          Attn: Financial Accounting


With copy to:

          Costco Wholesale     Corporation
          999 Lake Drive
          Issaquah, WA 98027
          Attn: Property Management


          10.      Default/ Remedies. The failure of a Party to materially comply with its
obligations under this Agreement following notice and the opportunity to cure as set forth herein
shall constitute a default by such Party. The Party claiming the occurrence of such default shall
notify the other Party of same specifying the nature of the default and shall demand performance
by the defaulting Party within thirty ( 30) day of the date of the notice specifying such default.
Unless,   within   such thirty ( 30) day period   either(   a)   the defaulting Party, ( i) cures such default, or

 ii) if it is not reasonable to sure the default within said thirty (30) day period, the Party in default
commences action to cure such default and completes the curing of such default within a
reasonable time or( b) the Party claiming default, by written notice given to the defaulting Party,
either waives the default or grants the defaulting Party a longer period to cure, then, after the
expiration of such thirty (30) period or such longer period as the Party claiming the default my
grant or the Party in default may be entitled under the foregoing clause ( a)( ii), without, in any
such case, such default not being cured or waived, the Party claiming the default may pursue all
remedies available at law and equity, including specific performance.



                                                  Page   5 of 10
          In the event legal action or other proceeding is brought for enforcement of this
Agreement or with respect to an alleged breach, default or misrepresentation, the successful or
prevailing Party shall be entitled to recover from the non-prevailing Party its reasonable
attorneys' fees and related costs ( including any fees and costs incident to appeals) in addition to
any other relief hereunder to which such Party may be entitled.
          11.
                    Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Utah.

          12.       Integration. This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the Parties with
respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. All prior agreements, negotiations,
and understandings are expressly merged herein and superseded hereby.
          13.
               Severability. Each section of this Agreement, and each sentence, clause or phrase
contained in such section, shall be considered severable and if, for any reason, any section, or
any sentence, clause or phrase contained in such section, is determined to be invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not impair the operation or affect
enforceability or validity of the remaining portions of this Agreement.
          14.
               Amendment. This Agreement may be amended by, and only by, a written
instrument authorized in accordance with law and signed by both Parties.
          15.       Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be
binding       i) the City and any successor corporate authorities of the City; and ( ii) Costco.
          upon: (


This Agreement may not be assigned by Costco to any grantee, lessee, assign or other third party
without the City' s consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably delayed, withheld or
conditioned, but said consent shall be granted or withheld on the basis of whether the City
believes the grantee, lessee, assignee or other third party is capable of performing its obligations
under this Agreement to open and operate wholesale and general merchandise facility and
vehicle fueling facility, which is capable of generating a comparable sales volume to Costco.
          16.
                    Effectiveness of this Agreement. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be
deemed or construed to impose any duty or obligation upon Costco to acquire the Property, to
undertake the development and construction of the Project or any other on-site or off-site
improvements or to operate the Project, it being expressly acknowledged and agreed, however,
that the City' s obligations to Costco hereunder are premised and conditioned on the generation of
Sales Taxes from the Project as the sole source of reimbursement hereunder.

          17.
                    Counterparts; Facsimile Signatures. This Agreement may be executed in more
than one counterpart, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall
constitute one and the same instrument. Facsimile or other electronically transmitted signatures
on this Agreement shall constitute originals signatures of the Parties.

          18.       Construction.   Section or other headings contained in this Agreement are for
reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this
Agreement.




                                                Page 6 of 10
       19.    Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence of this Agreement and of each and
every provision hereof.



                               SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]




                                         Page 7 of 10
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the dates set
forth below their respective signatures, to be effective as of the Effective Date.




                                       COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION, a
                                       Washington corporation

                                       By:
                                       Name:
                                       Its:
                                       Date:




                                       CITY OF RIVERTON,          a Utah municipal   corporation

                                       By:
                                       Name:
                                       Its:
                                       Date:




                                               Page 8 of 10
STATE OF


                                         SS.

COUNTY OF




I, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the County and State aforesaid, do hereby certify
that                      of Costco Wholesale Corporation, a Washington corporation, who is
personally known to me to be the                          of said corporation, appeared before me this
day in person and acknowledged that he/ she signed and delivered the foregoing Agreement as
his/ her own free and voluntary act and as the free and voluntary act of said corporation for the
purposes therein set forth.



       Given           my hand and official   seal this
               under
                                                                      day of         2020.




                                                          Notary Public




                                               Page 9 of 10
STATE OF


                                       SS.

COUNTY OF




I, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the County and State aforesaid, do hereby certify
that
                           of Riverton City, a Utah municipal corporation, who is personally
known to me to be the
                                         of said corporation, appeared before me this day in
person and acknowledged that he/ she signed and delivered the foregoing Agreement as his/ her
own free and voluntary act and as the free and voluntary act of said corporation for the purposes
therein set forth.




        Given under my hand and official seal this                                  2020.
                                                                         day of




                                                         Notary Public




                                             Page   10 of 10
