                                         ATTACHMENT “A”
                              STANDARD CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS

TERMS OF AGREEMENT

      In the event of any conflict between these standard terms and conditions and any other terms and
      condition included in this agreement, these standard contract terms and conditions, Attachment “A”, will
      govern.

      Contractor must meet or exceed all specifications and requirements as set forth in Scope of Work and RFP
      documents. Contractor must furnish all equipment, materials, labor, tools, transportation, supplies and
      incidentals necessary to complete the entire project.

BONDING

      Contractor must submit to Riverton City full performance and payment bonds in amounts equal to one
      hundred percent (100%) of the contract price. The City believes the project is bondable, and will work
      with the contractor and it’s Surety to provide said bond. The City agrees that the cost of the performance
      and payment bonds are a change order and agrees to increase the bid price by the cost of the bonds.
      Payment will not be made to Contractor for any amount until bonds have been received by the City. The
      performance and payment bonds shall remain in place until Contractor has delivered the water treatment
      system to the site. Upon delivery of water treatment system to the site and receipt of lien releases for
      said work, the city will release 90% of the bond and said bond shall be considered satisfied with
      unconditional release of the bond for that portion of the work. The remaining 10% of said bonds shall
      remain in place until the plant has reached substantial completion. Upon substantial completion the city
      agrees to unconditionally release the remaining 10% of the bond. If any additional issues arise after
      substantial completion all claims will fall under the warranty. If the Agreement is cancelled for any
      reason, the bonds shall be terminated subject to the payment of damages set forth below. The bonds may
      only be executed upon in the case the city is entitled to damages as set forth herein.

CONSTRUCTION DATES/DEADLINES

      Contractor is required to complete the project by June 1, 2023 (“Completion Date”). Contractor shall be
      liable for damages caused by delay in furnishing the Services by the Completion Date. The Completion
      Date shall be extended if there are any delays outside of Contractor’s control and due to the unavailability
      of material or supplies, any delay in the City’s construction of the building, or due to a delay in receiving
      permits that affect the Contractors ability to actually, materially, and reasonably perform its obligations
      hereunder. Any of the aforementioned delays shall extend the Completion Date by an amount equal to
      the same number of days of the Contractor was waiting to receive the material, supplies, or permit.
      Contractor shall inform the City of any delays by written notice. If Contractor fails to perform its
      obligations, or any part thereof, due to Force Majeure, it may be exempted from all or any of its liabilities
      hereunder. Force Majeure includes, but is not limited to acts of God; strikes; lockouts; boycotts;
      picketing; labor or other industrial disturbance; explosions; nuclear reaction or radiation, radioactive
      contamination; acts of a public enemy; fires; acts of terrorism; explosions; material breakage of or
      material accidents to the Pipeline, lines of pipe, storage tanks, docks; wars (declared or undeclared);
      blockades; insurrections; riots; epidemics; pandemics; landslides; earthquakes; storms; hurricanes;
      lightning; floods; extreme cold or freezing; extreme heat; washouts; arrests and restraints of governments
      (but excluding restraints occurring as a result of any violations, by Contractor); confiscation or seizure by

                                                       1
      any government or public authority; compliance with any federal, state, or local law, or with any
      regulation, order, or rule of domestic or international governmental agencies, or authorities or
      representatives of any domestic or international government acting under claim or color of authority,
      including compliance with permitting for the Department of Utah Division of Water Quality. All
      connection points to the Contractors system (ie power, water, wastewater, etc) are the sole responsibility
      or the city. For the sake of clarity, the City agrees to complete the building to house the unit by April 1,
      2023. If the building is not completed by April 1, 2023 then the Completion Date shall be extended by the
      number of days after that date until the building is completed.


INDEMNIFICATION

      The contractor agrees to defend, indemnify and hold Riverton City, the City Council, the Mayor, and all
      employees (collectively the "Indemnities") free and harmless from and against all losses, claims, liens,
      demands, lawsuits, judgments or liability including but not limited to general liability, automobile, and
      professional errors and omissions liability, arising out of the negligent acts, errors and omissions of the
      consultant in performing the Scope of Services including the amount of judgment, penalties, interest,
      court costs and legal fees incurred by the Indemnities or any of them in defense of the same. The
      Consultant further agrees to; investigate, handle, respond to, provide defense for and defend any such
      claim, demand or cause of action at its sole expense, and agrees to bear all other costs and expenses
      related thereto, and, release, indemnify and hold the City, its officers, agents and employees harmless
      from liability of any kind or nature, including the consultant use of any copyrighted or uncopyrighted
      composition, secret process, patented or unpatented invention, article or appliance furnished or used in
      the performance of this contract.
      Riverton City is a governmental entity under the Governmental Immunity Act and waives no defenses,
      limits of liability or other rights.

INSURANCE

      Riverton City requires the insurance provider to be rated an A- or better or a financial category of VII (7)
      or Higher as rated by AM Best Ratings.
      Workers Compensation insurance, sufficient to cover all employees in the employ during the term of the
      contract including any renewal thereof must be maintained. Coverage amount should be a required by
      Utah Workmen’s Compensation Laws. All subcontractors are required to also carry workers
      compensation insurance as specified above. The City will require employees from companies who choose
      to not carry workers compensation insurance, (three or less employees) to obtain a Workers
      Compensation Waiver Form from the State of Utah.
      Workers Compensation insurance, sufficient to cover all employees in the employ during the term of the
      contract including any renewal thereof must be maintained. Coverage amount should be a required by
      Utah Workmen’s Compensation Laws.
      Professional Liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00 must be maintained during the term of
      the contract.
      Commercial General Liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00 per occurrence with an aggregate
      of $2,000,000.00.
      Commercial Auto insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00 per occurrence with an aggregate of
      $2,000,000.00. The insurance must apply to hired, not owned and owned vehicles.
      Insurance needs to include Project Name with the location and description of the project, and the Project


                                                       2
          Number and Bid Number (if known). Insurance must name as the certificate holder; Riverton City, its
          elected officials, appointed officials, officers, employees and volunteers. Coverage is for all operation
          performed by or on behalf of the named insured.
          Riverton City will assume no liabilities for the contractor including any of the contractor’s representatives,
          employees or properties, and agrees to, at all times, protect, indemnify, defend and hold harmless the
          City and City employees from any and all claims
          Insurance provided is required to be primary and non-contributory.
          Proof of coverage must be provided before work can begin and agrees to provide proof of insurance upon
          demand by the City throughout the terms of the contract. The insurance must have a 30-day written
          cancelation notice. If any of the required insurance coverage is cancelled or lapse, the City may at the
          City's discretion, obtain substitute coverage at reasonable rates. The City may deduct the cost of such
          coverage, plus 10% for administrative charges, from any monies that are owing to contractor.

INDEPENDENT CONTRACT

          It is understood and agreed by the parties that the contractor is to act in the capacity of an independent
          contractor and as such will have no authorization, express or implied to bind Riverton City to any
          agreements. Contractor’s officers and employees shall not be considered as employees or officers of the
          City and shall not be entitled to any employee benefits as City employees as a result of the execution of
          this agreement.

ASSIGNMENT

          Contractor shall not assign this agreement or assign, pledge transfer or otherwise dispose of its interest or
          this agreement, without the specific consent of the City, and that no such assignment, pledge, mortgage,
          transfer, or other disposition shall relieve the consultant of its obligations hereunder, nor shall such an
          assignment of other disposition terminate any such claim or defense which the City may have. Riverton
          City may assert any claim or defense it may have against the consultant and against any such assignee.

LICENSE

          The contractor is properly licensed for the service(s) provided, including a business license. Contractor
          will provide all licenses before work can begin.

INSPECTIONS

          Contractor must be prepared, willing and accommodating to on-site inspection of all work, at any time, by
          a City representative, during job progress.

WORKFORCE

          Contractor agrees to register and participate in a Status Verification System such as E-Verify, to verify the
          work eligibility status of the consultant new employees that are employed in the state. The consultant
          further agrees to have each contractor or subcontractor who works for or under main consultant, certify
          by affidavit that the contractor or subcontractor has verified through a Status Verification System the
          employment status of each new employee of the respective contractor or subcontractor.



                                                           3
SUBCONTRACTORS

          Riverton City reserves the right to approve or reject any subcontractor. The City will not provide
          drawings, bidder’s lists, etc. to subcontractors or suppliers.

STANDARD OF CARE

          Services shall be performed in accordance with the skill and care ordinarily exercised by members of the
          same profession performing the same or similar services at the time consultant’s services are performed.
          Contractor shall, at contractor’s sole expense, redo any services not meeting this standard.

TAXATION

          It is understood and agreed that the contractor shall pay and discharge all license fees, assessments, sales,
          use, property and other tax or taxes lawfully imposed.

NOTICES

          All notices to be given under this agreement shall be made in writing and mailed to the other party at its
          address as set forth herein or at such other address as the party may provide in writing from time to time.
          Such notice shall be mailed, return receipt requested, to the parties as follows:


          City:

          Riverton City Corporation
          Purchasing Department
          12830 S. Redwood Rd.
          Riverton, UT 84065
          Email:

          TWM:

          Total Water Management
          510 S. 600 E.
          Salt Lake City, UT 84102
          Attn.: William Richardson
          Email: wrichardson@totalwatermgmt.com



NO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE INTEREST

          It is understood and agreed that no officer or employee of Riverton City has or shall have any pecuniary
          interest, direct or indirect, in this agreement or the proceeds thereof. No officer or employee of the
          contractor or any member of their families shall serve on any City board or committee or hold any such
          position which either by rule, practice, or action nominates, recommends, or supervises contractor’s


                                                           4
       operations, or authorizes funding of payments to the contractor.

AFFIDAVITS

       At the time of, or prior to, commencing work, the contractor shall submit a sworn affidavit from each
       officer, employee or agent of the consultant who has been in contact or communicated with any officer,
       agent, or employee of the City during the past calendar year concerning the provision of these goods and
       services. The affidavit shall contain the following statement:
       "I do solemnly swear that neither I, nor to the best of my knowledge, any member of my firm or company,
       has either directly or indirectly restrained free and competitive bidding by entering into any agreement,
       participating in any collusion, or otherwise taken any action unauthorized by the governing body of the
       City, or in violation of applicable law to secure favorable treatment with respect to being awarded this
       contract."

NON-DISCRIMINATION/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

       The Contractor agrees to abide by the provisions of the Utah Antidiscrimination Act, Title 34 Chapter 35,
       U.C.A. 1953, as amended, and Title VI and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (USC 2000e), which
       prohibit discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment, or any applicant or recipient
       of services, on the basis of race, religion, color, or national origin; and further agrees to abide by Executive
       Order No. 11246, as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex; 45 CFR 90 which
       prohibits discrimination on the basis of age, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which
       prohibits discrimination on the basis of handicap. This agreement may be canceled if the contractor fails
       to comply with the provisions of these laws and regulations. The consultant must include this provision in
       every subcontract or purchase order relating to purchases by Riverton City to ensure that
       subcontractors and vendors are bound by this provision.

DAVIS-BACON ACT COMPLIANCE

       The Contractor agrees and will use their best efforts to comply with all Davis-Bacon Act Compliance
       Requirements under ARPA, as per attached Policy Direction Memorandum.
LAW

       This contract shall be governed and constituted in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah.

OSHA REQUIREMENTS

       Contractor agrees to comply with OSHA requirements to the best of their knowledge, that may be
       associated with this project. For any OSAH violation that occurs with this project the Contractor agrees to
       pay any fine accessed to the City and the City will not accept any bids from the contractor on any project
       for the next year.

PERMITS

       The Contractor is responsible to obtain the following Riverton City Permits. Permits can be viewed at the
       following web sites:
                1. Construction Permit from the Division of Drinking Water.


                                                         5
                2. Operation Permit from the Division of Drinking Water.

LIQUIDATED DAMAGES

       Time is the essence of the Contract Documents. Contractor agrees that the City will suffer damage or
       financial loss if the project is not completed by the Completion Date, any extensions set forth herein, or
       within any time extensions that are allowed by written preapproval. The Contractor and the City agree
       that proof of the exact amount of any such damage or loss is difficult to determine. Accordingly, instead
       of requiring any such proof of damage or specific financial loss or late completion, the Contractor agrees
       to pay the following sums to the City as liquidated damages and not as a penalty. In return the City
       agrees that it is only entitled to the damages set forth below, even if it claims that it’s actual damages
       are greater than those set forth herein.

          1.    Late Time Completion:
                One hundred dollars and no cents ($100.00) for each day or part thereof that expires after the
                completion time until the work is accepted as substantially complete.

          2.    Late Punch List Time:
                Punch list items must be completed within 30 calendar days after the list is delivered.

           3.   Interruption of Public Services:
                No interruption of public services shall be caused by the Contractor, its agents or employees,
                without the engineer’s prior written approval. The City and Contractor agree that in the event
                the City suffers damages from such interruption, the amount of liquidated damages shall be
                limited to One hundred dollars and no cents ($100.00) for each day or part thereof of any utility
                interruption caused by the Contractor without prior written authorization.

                The City shall be entitled to deduct and retain liquidated damages out of any money which may
                be due or become due the Contractor. To the extent that the liquidated damages exceed any
                amounts that would otherwise be due the Contractor, the Contractor shall be liable for such
                amounts and shall return such excess to the City. This provision shall expire at the same time as
                the Limited Warranty.

PAYMENT

      The Water Purification Sum shall be held in a separate account and shall not be accessed for any use
      other than the Water Purification System Expenses. The City shall pay the Purification System Manager
      the Water Purification Sum at the following times and in the following amounts:

                -   Upon execution of this agreement the City agrees to pay Fifteen Percent (15%) of
                    the total amount owed to the Contractor.

                -   Upon submission of the Engineered Submittal Package the City agrees to pay Fifteen
                    Percent (15%) of the total amount owed to the Contractor.

                -   Upon the release for fabrication, the City agrees to pay Twenty-Five Percent (25%)
                    of the total amount owed to contractor.


                                                       6
               -   Upon Notification of Completion and Delivery, the City agrees to pay Thirty-Five-
                   Percent (35%) of the total amount owed to the Contractor.

               -   Upon Retainage (successful training and handoff of equipment to the City), the City
                   agrees to pay Ten Percent (10%).

               -   No other prepayments or “Draws” against anticipated (future) work will be allowed.

DEFAULT

      If either party fails to perform its obligations, the other party may give written notice specifying the
      nature of the failure and requesting the defaulting party to remedy it. If the default is not corrected
      within thirty (30) days of the notice date, the non-defaulting party may pursue the remedy provided
      herein, and without waiving that remedy, it may terminate this agreement. If the failure reasonably
      justifies faster action, the notice may require correction within less than thirty (30) days, and the non-
      defaulting party may take reasonable action to protect its interest. If the failure is one that reasonably
      requires more than thirty (30) days to correct, the correction period shall be extended beyond thirty (30)
      days, so long as the defaulting party promptly commences to correct the default and diligently pursues it
      to completion.

      In the event either party needs to enforce the terms of this agreement by suit or otherwise, the party at
      fault shall pay the costs and expenses incident thereto, including a reasonable attorney’s fee.

LIMITED WARRANTY

      Contractor warrants for a period of twenty-four (24) months from date of acceptance that the System will
      perform substantially in accordance with the design set forth by Contractor in the response to the RFP
      and will be free from material defects. Contractor does not warrant or promise that the System will
      perform outside of the parameters set forth in the response to the RFP or the anticipated water
      attributes. All notices of defect must be sent to Contractor in writing and received prior to the expiration
      of the Limited Warranty. Upon written notice from the City of any defect during the applicable warranty
      period, the affected item, parts or work shall be redone, redesigned, repaired or replaced by contractor
      (at contractor’s expense). Warranty repairs must be completed within 10 calendar days after notice, or
      after Contractor obtains the part(s) necessary for the repair, whichever is later. The Contractor and City
      may negotiate a different time that is acceptable to the City. The Limited Warranty does not cover any
      damages, defects, or repairs if the System is operated outside the guidelines provided by the Contractor,
      or is operated in any manner that is contrary to the Contractor’s direction. The Limited Warranty also
      does not cover any defects or damages if the System is operated under conditions that are substantially
      different than those set forth in the RFP, or under conditions substantially different than those set forth in
      Contractor’s response to the RFP, or is operated outside of any limits set by the Utah Division of Water
      Quality for the processing of water through a reverse osmosis treatment system.

      EXCEPT AS SPECIFICALLY SET FORTH HEREIN, THE SYSTEM IS PROVIDED WITHOUT ADDITIONAL
      WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED
      WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND ANY ORAL OR
      WRITTEN REPRESENTATIONS, PROPOSALS OR STATEMENTS MADE PRIOR TO THIS AGREEMENT.

                                                       7
      CONTRACTOR EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND WITH
      RESPECT TO THE SYSTEM, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
      MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
      PERFORMANCE OF THE SYSTEM IS WITH YOU. THE REMEDIES PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT ARE YOUR
      SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES.


ENTIRE AGREEMENT

      This Agreement, together with the attachments hereto, contains the entire Agreement between the
      parties, and supersedes all prior agreements, and oral or written representations with respect to the
      subject matter hereto, and no statements, promises, or inducements made by either party or agents for
      either party, that are not contained in this written Agreement, shall be binding or valid. This Agreement
      may not be enlarged, modified, or altered except in writing, signed and dated by the parties.




                                                      8
