                            MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:           Planning Department
Date:           April 20, 2021
Subject:        ORDINANCE 21-10, AMENDMENT TO RIVERTON CITY ORDINANCE 18.120,
                ELDERLY HOUSING OVERLAY ZONE, 18.90 TABLE OF COMMERCIAL
                USES, AND COMMERCIAL ZONES, ADDRESSING CARE FACILITIES,
                RIVERTON CITY, APPLICANT


On March 11, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item. Minutes
from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission recommended the
following motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 21-10 amending and updating Section 18.120, Elderly
Housing Overlay zone, Section 18.90 Table of Commercial Uses, and Conditional Uses sections
within the commercial zones, as described in Exhibit “A”

Ordinance and Issues

Riverton City has for some time been reviewing potential changes to the current Elderly Housing
Overlay zone. That ordinance as it stands allows for various housing types and care facilities for
the elderly, and establishes general density and development regulations for such uses. The
overlay is applied to an underlying zone. The current ordinance is broadly constructed, and the
City has determined that modification and clarification of the ordinance is necessary to best
implement the City’s goals and policies regarding elderly housing in the City.

The currently ordinance allows within the overlay both ‘independent senior housing’, typically
individual living units or structures, and care facilities such as nursing homes. The overlay can
be applied to both commercial and multi-family residential zones. The overlay carries a maximum
density of 20 units per acre, but does not include any criteria or basis for determining how density
may be allocated or addressed.

One of the most fundamental changes recommended in this amendment is to the allowed
underlying zoning. The proposed amendment removes nursing homes, assisted living facilities,
and similar uses from the overlay, and makes those uses conditional in most commercial zones.
Such uses are essentially commercial in nature, and are most appropriately located in those
zones. Existing facilities in Riverton City are all in commercial areas, and so the proposed
amendment will not result in any non-conforming sites. The amended Elderly Housing Overlay
could only then be applied to residential zones, and only for independent elderly housing. With

Report by: JL
4/13/2021
this change, the density and development standards would primarily be a function of the
underlying zone. This will help to clarify the application and approval process for all involved, and
will make the record cleaner regarding permitted density and unit types. For example, a property
could be zoned RM-6/EH-OV, which would allow elderly housing to be built at a density of up to
6 units per acre. Alternatively, a property could be zoned R-4/EH-OV, which would allow elderly
housing on single family lots with a minimum lot size of ¼ acre.

There has been discussion regarding how to appropriately incentivize development of elderly
housing in Riverton City, and the amendment proposes allowing a density ‘bonus’ of up to 100%,
or double, the underlying designation. However, rather than apply the bonus increasing the
density above that allowed in the underlying zoning, which can lead to confusion in the future, the
proposed amendment allows the density bonus in a different way. The bonus is applied to the
General Plan Designation for a property. For example, if a property is designated for ¼ acre lots
under the General Plan, the R-4 zone would be maximum zoning that could be applied for.
However, an application for a rezone to the Elderly Housing Overlay Zone could qualify for a
bonus density of x2, double, above the General Plan designation, meaning the City could approve
up to the RM-8 zone with the Elderly Housing Overlay. The double density bonus would allow
the change from 4 units per acre (R-4) to 8 units/acre (RM-8), without an amendment to the
General Plan. This provides a reasonable incentive to develop elderly housing, while insuring the
zoning will accurately reflect and regulate the densities involved. The amendment allows the City
to establish appropriate conditions during the rezone process to mitigate identified impacts.

The proposed amendment requires that elderly housing be limited to a minimum of 80% of
residents of 55 or older. This can be accomplished by “deed restriction”, which means the deed
for each lot or unit will be recorded with the limitation. Other methods, including binding
restrictions under a Home Owners Association, are allowed, and may be expanded over time
consistent with applicable laws. The original amendment also requires a minimum of three (3)
“mobility/age friendly” features for all dwelling units, to help insure that the units will accommodate
elderly residents and allow for “aging in place”, but has been amended to require the same
minimum number of such features as the underlying density. For example, the RM-6 would
require a minimum of 6, the RM-8 a minimum of 8, etc.

The Table of Commercial Uses shows the amendment listing Nursing/Care Facilities and Assisted
Living Facilities as conditional in all commercial zones except Commercial Professional Office.
The amendment also adds to each applicable commercial zone the following language under
Conditional Uses:

Nursing/Care facility, assisted living facility. Number of rooms/beds shall be as determined in site
plan approval, subject to site constraints, including available parking. Individual ownership of
rooms/living space is not permitted.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of this amendment

Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1.    Proposed Elderly Housing Overlay Ordinance Amendment
          2.    Proposed Table of Commercial Uses Amendment
          3.    Proposed Commercial Zones Amendment
          4.    Original Elderly Housing Overlay Zone.


Report by: JL
4/13/2021
   Riverton                                                                                         Page 1/8




                                 Chapter 18.120
                      ELDERLY HOUSING OVERLAY (OV-EH) ZONE

Sections:
      18.120.010        Purpose.
      18.120.020        Permitted uses.
      18.120.030        Permitted accessory uses.
      18.120.040        Placement of elderly housing.
      18.120.050        Process.
      18.120.060        Density and area requirements.
      18.120.070        Setback requirementsDevelopment standards.
      18.120.080        Building heightAge restrictions.
      18.120.090        Parking and accessBuffering and screening.
      18.120.100        Vehicle storage.
      18.120.110        Buffering and screening.
      18.120.120        Standards for open space.
      18.120.130        Independent elderly housing.
      18.120.140        Fencing.

18.120.010 Purpose.
     The elderly housing overlay (OV-EH) zone is established to provide an area a
framework for elderly housing, including independent elderly housing, nursing homes,
convalescent centers and assisted living centers adjacent to, or in proximity to,
commercial centers, mass-transportation access, or community and civic
centers.attached and detached units. This overlay zone is not intended for assisted
living facilities, residential care facilities, hospitals, clinics, health care centers, or like
uses. The OV-EH zone may be permitted in any commercial or RMresidential zone. The
intent of this overlay zone is to provide adequate and affordable accommodations for
Riverton’s elderly citizens, where the lifestyle is less burdensome and more convenient
for residents to perform daily activities

18.120.020 Permitted uses.
   Permitted uses in the elderly housing overlay zone shall be limited to the following
uses or similar uses as interpreted by the planning commission:
   (1) (1) Independent elderly housing.
   (1)(2)     Attached or detached units, subject to underlying zoning requirements and
       allowances.
   (2) Residential health care facility.
   (3) Associated real estate/management office. [Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-256-
010). Code 1997 § 12-340-010.]

18.120.030 Permitted accessory uses.
   (1) Accessory Buildings. Garage, shed, and any building on a foundation (maximum
one story or 15 feet).etc, subject to Section 18.225 of this code.




          The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance No. 11-18, passed December 6, 2011.
   Riverton                                                                                         Page 2/8



    (2) Accessory Structures. Pools and jacuzzis, subject to this chapter.
   (3) Recreation Facilities. Recreation facilities such as game rooms, fitness facilities,
basketball courts, tennis courts, and similar structures. [Amended during 2011
recodification; Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-256-015). Code 1997 § 12-340-015.]

18.120.040 Placement of elderly housing.
   (1) Zones Applicable to Overlay. The elderly housing overlay zone may be used in
conjunction with the following zones: downtown commercial, professional office,
regional commercial, RM-8 and RM-12.all residential zones. The overlay may not be
applied to commercial, industrial, or other non-residential zones.
   (2) Maximum Percentage. No more than 25 percent of any specific zone district may
be considered for elderly housing overlay. There shall be no maximum allowable
percentage within RM zones. [Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-256-020). Code 1997 §
12-340-020.]

18.120.050 Process.
   An overlay zone must follow the rezoning process to add elderly housing as a
permitted use onto these zones: downtown commercial, professional office commercial,
regional commercial, RM-8, and RM-12the applicable zone. This process is set forth in
Chapter 18.220 RCC.

18.120.060 Density and area requirements.
   (1) Maximum Density. The OV-EH zone shall have a maximum density of 20
dwelling units per acre.be subject to the lot size and/or density regulations of the
underlying zone, unless modified by this chapter.
   (2) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not
less than three acresone acre and not more than 10 acres.
   (3) Open Space. Each development in the OV-EH zone shall have a minimum of 30
percent of the site reserved for common open space. [Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-
256-030). Code 1997 § 12-340-030.]be subject to the open space requirements of the
underlying zone. The City may, in review of a submitted application for development,
amend or otherwise modify proposed open spaces and/or amenities or types of
amenities, based on the size of the project, unit types, projected demographics, or other
considerations, but may not increase required area dedication in the underlying zoning.
   (4) Density Bonus. Developments where housing will be deed restricted to
independent senior housing may be eligible for up to 100% (x2) density bonus as
zoning over the General Plan designation for a property. For example, property
designated for ¼ acre lots in the General Plan may be approved at up to RM-8 with the
Elderly Housing Overlay. The City may establish appropriate conditions during the
approval of the Elderly Housing Overlay zoning for a property, which shall “run with the
land” upon approval. Conditions may include,
       a) Minimum lot size
       b) Maximum unit count
       c) Unit type, including limitations to height or number of stories
       d) Public vs private infrastructure




          The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance No. 11-18, passed December 6, 2011.
   Riverton                                                                                         Page 3/8



18.120.070 Setback requirementsDevelopment Standards.
   (1) Front Yard Setback. Development standards, including setbacks, building height,
coverage, and other requirements, shall be as found in the underlying zoning. Where a
density bonus is granted under the terms of this section and underlying zoning
standards do not fully address the proposed density, development standards shall be
consistent with the corresponding Riverton City zone, as established in approval of the
rezone applying the overlay, and at the discretion of the City.
   (2). Dwelling units developed within the Elderly Housing Overlay shall include a
minimum of one (1) “mobility/age friendly” features per unit of density (ie RM-6 would
require a minimum of 6 features), including but not limited to:
       1. Main level living
       2. No step entries/thresholds
       3. Access ramps
       4. Increased door/hallway width
       5. Non-slip flooring throughout
       6. Accessible bathroom facilities
       7. Age appropriate hardware/fixtures, such as lever style door handles.
       8. Other features as approved by the Development Services Director.
       1. The minimum setback from the facade of the residential building to the
          dedicated public right-of-way shall be no less than 30 feet, and 50 feet from
          an arterial street. The minimum setback shall be 20 feet from the back of a
          sidewalk which abuts a private driveway, private road, and/or parking areas.
          Canopies, overhangs and similar coverings may project into the front setback
          area a maximum of 10 feet. However, overhead projections shall not extend
          lower than nine feet above finished grade.
       (2) Side Yard Setback. All buildings shall have a minimum setback of 20 feet between all
       detached buildings or from the property line. Where buildings are two stories, setbacks
       between buildings shall be a minimum of 30 feet. Where a side yard is located contiguous with a
       public street, the side yard setback shall not be less than 30 feet.
       (3) Rear Yard Setback. All buildings shall have a rear setback of 30 feet. Parking areas shall have
       a minimum setback of 10 feet from the rear property line.
       (4) Accessory Buildings and Uses.
       (a) There shall be a two-foot minimum setback from the side and rear property lines; provided,
       that accessory buildings are constructed of fire-resistant materials which provide a one-hour or
       greater fire rating, rain gutters and rain pipes are installed, and buildings are not located within
       10 feet of any dwelling or main building located on an adjoining lot.
       (b) Detached garages and accessory buildings shall be set at least 10 feet behind the main
       structure.
       (c) Accessory buildings or uses shall not encroach upon any easement or right-of-way.
       (d) Structures greater than 600 square feet in size shall be approved by the planning commission
       before a public hearing. [Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-256-035). Code 1997 § 12-340-035.]




          The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance No. 11-18, passed December 6, 2011.
   Riverton                                                                                         Page 4/8



18.120.080 Building heightAge restrictions.
    (1) Elderly housing. Elderly housing shall be, in compliance with applicable State
and Federal laws, restricted to a minimum of 80% units where primary residency is
individual(s) 55 years of age or older. Applications for rezone proposing utilization of
the Elderly Housing Overlay shall include proposed methods for regulation this age
restriction, or . Such methods may include:
        a) Deed restriction, recorded against the property(s).
        b) Conditions, Covenants, and Restrictions (CC&R’s) administered by a Home
            Owners Association, with restrictions against amendments or alterations of
            this requirement.
        c) Other methods as allowed by law and as accepted by the City Attorney

   The maximum height for all buildings and structures in the OV-EH zone shall be no
more than 35 or two and one-half stories, whichever is greater. [Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh.
A § 12-256-040). Code 1997 § 12-340-040.]

18.120.090 Parking and access.
    (1) Number and Width of Driveways. For each development, no more than two
driveways shall be used for each 200 feet of parcel frontage or fraction thereof. Each
driveway shall have a minimum width of 24 feet and a maximum width of 40 feet
exclusive of turnout areas to allow access to a garage or side yard.
    (2) Restrictions on Corner Lots. Driveways shall not be closer than 100 feet to the
point of intersection as measured at the property line.
    (3) Minimum Number of Spaces. The minimum number of parking spaces shall be
according to Chapter 18.145 RCC, and shall depend on the type of elderly housing
proposed.
    (4) Parking Setback. Parking shall be set back a minimum of 10 feet from any
property line.
    (5) Carport Requirements. When carports are used in parking areas, they shall be
required to be constructed with the following elements:
        (a) Roofs. Roofs shall have a pitch of at least 20 percent. No wood shingles shall
be used.
        (b) Supports and Pillars. Supports and pillars shall be constructed of masonry
and shall have a minimum dimension of three square feet. Pillars shall be placed no
less than every five stalls.
    (6) Other Requirements. Parking in the OV-EH zone shall follow all other applicable
parking regulations as listed in Chapter 18.145 RCC. [Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-
256-045). Code 1997 § 12-340-045.]

18.120.100 Vehicle storage.
   (1) Inoperable Vehicles. No licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind or
part(s) thereof, which is in a wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned condition, whether attended to or not, shall be parked in the OV-EH zone for
a period of time in excess of 72 hours, except that a maximum of two such vehicles or
parts thereof may be stored or parked within a building or behind an opaque screening
fence.



          The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance No. 11-18, passed December 6, 2011.
   Riverton                                                                                         Page 5/8



    (2) RV Storage. Each independent elderly housing development shall provide
recreational vehicle storage areas for a minimum of five percent of dwelling units within
the development. Storage areas shall be screened with a minimum six-foot solid
masonry wall and seven feet of landscaping. [Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-256-050).
18.120.110 090 Buffering and screening.
    (1) Properties designated with the Elderly Housing Overlay shall comply with the
requirements of section 18.155.080, Fencing Between Noncompatible Uses, based on
the underlying zone. Additional requirements may be made during approval of the
zoning based on site and property characteristics.Incompatible Land Uses. When any
new development in the OV-EH zone creates an incompatible land use there shall be a
fenced and/or landscaped area provided along the entire parcel(s) adjacent to the
incompatible use created by the new development, as approved by the city council upon
recommendation of the planning commission. These same requirements shall apply to
the lots of any development adjacent to collector or arterial streets as shown on the
transportation element of the Riverton City general plan.
    (2) Trash Storage. No junk or trash shall be stored in an open area. All such
materials must be screened from public streets and adjacent properties with opaque
screening material. Storage of commercial goods or materials is expressly prohibited.
[Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-256-055). Code 1997 § 12-340-055.]




          The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance No. 11-18, passed December 6, 2011.
   Riverton                                                                                         Page 6/8



18.120.120 Standards for open space.

Open space shall be maintained by the owner and shall meet the following minimum
requirements:

(1) All areas shall be properly graded so as to cause no drainage problems to adjacent
homes or other uses.

(2) All open space shall be sodded or seeded to provide a visually pleasing as well as
functional space for appropriate activities.

(3) Where it is deemed appropriate, native grasses and plants may be used along
equestrian trails, bicycle paths, etc. Steps will be taken by developers to guard against
such spaces becoming a fire hazard or haven for insects.

(4) All areas shall have a minimum number of both deciduous and evergreen trees to
provide for shade and to provide visual relief and a source of rural atmosphere. The
following shall be required:

(a) A minimum of 20 trees per acre shall be planted and maintained.

(b) Trees shall be a minimum of one-and-one-half-inch caliper to two-inch caliper or, if
evergreen, seven feet to nine feet tall.

(c) All areas shall be watered by an installed irrigation system.

(5) Open Space Guarantees. Within all areas where condominium ownership is
established in the RM-12 zone, adequate assurance in a form approved by the city
attorney shall be provided for permanent retention and maintenance of all open space
and areas of common ownership. A building permit shall not be issued until all required
guarantees have been reviewed by the planning commission and approved by the city
council. Such open space guarantees could include easements to the city for perpetual
use as open space.

(6) Landscaping Guarantee. Whenever a residential dwelling is constructed,
landscaping, in the form of lawn, trees, or other plantings or landscape features, except
for areas covered by walls, driveways, and other structures, shall be installed before
issuing a certificate of occupancy unless weather forces the developer to bond with the
city for the landscaping for a maximum period of six months.

All landscaping shall be of sufficient quality, durability and survivability. Landscaping
and open spaces shall be watered by a pressurized irrigation system installed to meet




          The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance No. 11-18, passed December 6, 2011.
   Riverton                                                                                         Page 7/8



the watering needs of all flora. [Amended during 2011 recodification; Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1
(Exh. A § 12-256-060). Code 1997 § 12-340-060.]

18.120.130 Independent elderly housing.

(1) Conditions. Independent elderly housing facilities shall be subject to the following
conditions before being granted a conditional use permit, and said permit shall not be
denied where a facility is found to meet all conditions set forth in this chapter:

(a) Code Compliance. The facility shall meet all city and state building, safety and health
laws and regulations applicable to other dwellings in the zone. Further, the facility shall
meet all state and federal laws which apply to structures and facilities used by elderly
people.

(b) Residents. No person being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse shall be placed in
said dwelling. No person who is violent shall be placed in said dwelling. No residents of
said facilities shall be less than 55 years of age unless a spouse to a resident who is 55
years of age or older.

(c) Volunteer Basis. Placement in said dwelling shall be on a strictly voluntary basis and
not part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional facility.

(d) Interior. For convalescent homes, no more than two residents shall sleep in a single
bedroom. A minimum of 60 square feet per individual shall be provided in a double-
occupancy bedroom. A minimum of 100 square feet per individual shall be provided in a
single occupant bedroom.

(e) Other Conditions. The city council, upon prior recommendation of the planning
commission, may set other reasonable conditions for any individual applicant which it
feels will further the intent of Section 10-8-2.6, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as
amended, and this chapter.

(2) Application Accompanied by Plot Plan. An application for a residential facility for
elderly persons pursuant to this chapter shall be accompanied by a plot plan in
duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of the property, the size and
locations of existing buildings, all hard-surfaced areas, landscaped areas and such
other information as may be necessary to provide for the compliance of this chapter.

(3) Discrimination Prohibited. Discrimination against elderly persons and against
residential facilities for elderly persons is prohibited. All decisions regarding an
application for a residential facility for elderly persons must be based on legitimate land
use criteria, and may not be based on the age of the facility’s residents.

(4) Duration. A conditional use granted under this chapter is transferable only upon prior
approval of the city council and terminates if the structure in which the facility is housed
is devoted to use other than as a residential facility for elderly persons; if the structure


          The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance No. 11-18, passed December 6, 2011.
   Riverton                                                                                         Page 8/8



fails to comply with applicable health, safety and building codes; or if the operation of
the facility is transferred. If any of the above takes place, the structure cannot be sold or
used as a multifamily unit unless a permit is obtained from the city.

(5) Licensing. Upon receipt of a conditional use permit, the applicant shall obtain a
license from the Utah State Department of Health and a business license from the city.
In order to obtain the city business license, the applicant shall submit a copy of the state
license. Thereafter, the business license shall be renewed from year to year by paying
proper fees and maintaining the facility according to the standards set forth herein. The
business license shall be subject to revocation for violation or noncompliance with any
of the requirements set forth herein or nonpayment of the proper fees. [Ord. 6-2-98-1Q
§ 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-256-065). Code 1997 § 12-340-065.]

18.120.140 Fencing.

(1) Collector Street Fencing. All residential subdivisions having properties adjacent to or
abutting onto a collector or arterial residential street shall have decorative fencing, in
compliance with Chapter 18.155 RCC.

(2) Incompatible Land Uses. All properties adjacent to or abutting a rural residential or
agricultural zone shall install fencing of sufficient quality, able to withstand an impact
from large animals. Fencing for properties adjacent to other uses may also be required
by the planning commission or city council to provide fencing of quality design, and
landscape incorporation.

(3) Height Requirements. No wall or fence less than six feet in height shall be erected or
maintained in any rear yard, nor shall any wall, fence, opaque hedge, or screening
material be erected or maintained in any required front yard in excess of three feet in
height. Except that any fence erected within 10 feet of any driveway and exceeding two
feet in height shall be of visually nonobstructive material and shall be used to provide a
safe distance for pedestrian and street traffic.

(4) Corner Lots. No wall, fence, opaque hedge, or screening material in excess of two
feet shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street
property lines and a line connecting them at a point equal to the required setback lines.
[Amended during 2011 recodification; Ord. 2-3-98-2 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-256-070). Code
1997 § 12-340-070.]




          The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance No. 11-18, passed December 6, 2011.
    Riverton City Code                                                                                        Page 1/2
    Chapter 18.70 GATEWAY COMMERCIAL (C-G) ZONE

                                                    Chapter 18.70

                                     GATEWAY COMMERCIAL (C-G) ZONE


Sections:
18.70.010     Purpose.
18.70.020     Permitted uses.
18.70.030     Conditional uses.
18.70.040     Setback requirements.
18.70.050     Lot coverage.
18.70.060     Architectural standards.
18.70.070     Development standards.
18.70.080     Parking areas.
18.70.090     Uses within buildings.
18.70.100     Outside storage.

18.70.010 Purpose.
The “Gateway,” as established by area and definition in the Riverton City commercial district master plan, is where
a combination of retail, professional businesses and related activities are encouraged and established. Regulations of
this district are designed to provide a suitable environment for those commercial and service uses which can be well
integrated with the adjacent mixed commercial and residential zones.

The “Gateway” shall be any property aligned with main arteries, such as Redwood Road and 12600 South, at or near
entrances to the city.

18.70.020 Permitted uses.
The following uses are permitted and allowed in the C-G zone; provided, that the regulations and intent of this zone
are adhered to:

(1) Bakery.

(2) Recreation or fitness center, health club.

(3) Restaurant without drive-through.

(4) Professional office.

(5) Beauty salon or barber shop.

(6) Bank or financial lending institution.

(7) Other uses as per RCC 18.90.010, Table of commercial uses.

18.70.030 Conditional uses.
The following uses are conditional, and may be considered uses within the C-G zone; provided, that the regulations
and intent of this zone are met:

(1) Grocery store/shopping center.

(2) Health care facility, medical clinic.

(3) Convenience store with a gasoline service station (except when two or more like uses exist within 1,000 feet).

(4) Educational services.

(5) Storage units (except on any property or development adjacent to or having access to 12600 South east of the
Bangerter Highway).
    Riverton City Code                                                                                        Page 2/2
    Chapter 18.70 GATEWAY COMMERCIAL (C-G) ZONE

(6) Nursing/Care facility, assisted living facility. Number of rooms/beds shall be as determined in site plan approval,
subject to site constraints, including available parking. Individual ownership of living space/rooms is not permitted.

(7) Other uses as per RCC 18.90.010, Table of commercial uses.
     Riverton City Code                                                                                      Page 3/4
     Chapter 18.90 TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES


                                              LAND USE                              C-D   C-G   C-N   C-PO     C-R

Jewelry retail                                                                       P     P    NP    NP         P

Landscaping services                                                                NP    NP    NP    NP         P

Laundering, dry cleaning, and dyeing services                                       C     C     C     NP         P

Legal services                                                                       P     P    C      P         P

Mail and phone order houses                                                         NP    C     C     NP         P

Medical clinics – outpatient only                                                   C     C     NP     P         P

Microfilming services                                                                P     P    NP     C         P

Motel                                                                               NP    C     NP    NP         P

Motor vehicle services (taxi, auto rental, ambulance, parcel pickup and delivery)   C     NP    NP    NP         P

Natural activities (planetariums, aquariums, botanical gardens, zoos, etc.)         C     C     NP    NP         C

News syndicate services                                                              P     P    NP     C         P

Nurseries (plants)                                                                  NP    NP    C     NP         P

Nursing/Care facility, assisted living center                                       C     C     C     NP         C

Office equipment, furniture, machines and supplies retail                            P    C     NP    NP         P

Outlets, factory and direct sales, wholesale                                        NP    NP    NP    NP         C

Paint, glass, and wallpaper retail                                                   P    C     NP    NP         P

Pawnshop                                                                            NP    NP    NP    NP         C

Pet boarding, associated with animal hospitals/veterinary clinics                   NP    C     NP    NP         C

Pet boarding, nonmedical                                                            NP    C     C     NP         C

Pets and supplies retail                                                             P     P    NP    NP         P

Photographic supplies retail                                                         P     P    NP    NP         P

Photography, portrait and commercial                                                 P     P    C      C         P

Physicians, dental, and other professional medical offices – outpatient only         P     P    C      P         P

Plasma donation centers – standalone                                                C     C     NP    NP         P

Playgrounds, parks and other recreational grounds                                   C     C     C      C         C

Political, civic and veterans organizations                                          P     P    C      C         P

Printing and publishing services                                                    C     C     NP     C         P

Recreation or fitness center/health club                                             P    C     C      C         P

Research and development services                                                   C     C     NP     C         P

Restaurants, drive-in or fast food                                                  C     C     NP    NP         P

Restaurants, sit down                                                                P     P    NP     C         P

Sign graphics and production                                                        NP    NP    NP    NP         C

Sports activities, private (golf courses, tennis courts, skating rinks, etc.)        P    C     NP    NP         P
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
March 11, 2021

glass, or decorative concrete. Glass may only be used when the wall is a minimum of 20
feet from any parking or drive aisle. Entries and entryway features that extend to the floor
may be excluded from this distance requirement as approved by the Planning Commission
and may not constitute more than 20% of the length of the elevation. Exterior details were
discussed.

Commissioner Brown raised concern with the color palette and asked if the proposal is
required to blend with surrounding buildings. She was in favor of consistency throughout
and believed the grey would throw off the aesthetics. Mr. Lethbridge was uncertain why the
applicant chose a grey color palette as it would be out of character with the surrounding
buildings. He confirmed that the proposal is not out of compliance with the Ordinance.

Project Architect, Mark Brimhall from AE URBIA Architects and Engineers stated that the
grey exterior was chosen to make it stand out from the other buildings. Reveals were
proposed along the sides of the building and with canopies above the store front entry. He
indicated that grey is preferable but they were open to considering a more cohesive color
palette that blends with the surrounding structures.

A question was raised as to whether this concern should be addressed in the CC&Rs.
Mr. Lethbridge explained that this is all part of the process that commercial proposals are
required to go through. Certain items are strictly defined where others are encouraged. He
stated that the color palette is at the Planning Commission’s discretion but must include a
finding.

A Commission Member expressed opposition to the proposed palette and was inclined to
approve it with colors similar to the existing buildings. Mr. Lethbridge confirmed that staff
will continue to work with the architect as the project progresses.

3.    PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

      a.     REZONE: RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING A REZONE OF “MARGARET
             PARK”, A 4.28-ACRE CITY PARK LOCATED AT 1170 WEST TIMP VISTA
             DRIVE. THE CURRENT ZONING OF THE PROPERTY IS R-3, THE
             PROPOSED ZONING IS PARKS AND OPEN SPACE.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated that this is a rezone that is recognized
by the City that is north of 12600 South and east of 1300 West. He confirmed that residents
within 1,000 feet were notified and no public comments have been received. A visual
rendering was displayed. He explained that when originally designed, the property was left
with the same residential zoning as the surrounding subdivision. This rezone takes the
existing park from the R-3 zone to Parks and Open Space. There is no change to use and
it will be more restrictive and ensure that the property remains within Riverton City’s park
system.

There were no public comments. The public hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
March 11, 2021


Commissioner Russell moved to recommend APPROVAL of Application PLZ-21-4001.
Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       b.     ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE: RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
              CHANGES TO RIVERTON CITY CODE 18.120 “ELDERLY HOUSING
              OVERLAY ZONE”.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated the request is for amendments to the
Elderly Housing Overlay Zone. The item has been discussed with both the Planning
Commission and City Council and is up for action. This zone sits on top of another zone to
allow for elderly housing. The current Overlay zone includes a range of senior housing uses
and is intended for larger facilities with a maximum density of 20 units per acre.

One of the first items proposed with the amendment was to separate the uses.
Mr. Lethbridge explained that there is a distinction between senior housing and a care facility
or nursing home. The proposed amendment would remove those uses from the overlay,
which could no longer be applied to commercial zoning. Nursing homes and care facilities
would be moved into commercial zones as a commercial use and introduce language listing
those types of facilities as conditional. He noted that language was added stating that
individual ownership of living space or rooms is not permitted ultimately limiting this to care
facilities. The Ordinance includes a table of commercial uses detailing various categories
of uses and indicates whether they are permitted, conditional, or not permitted throughout
the City’s commercial zones. The table was to be amended to add those uses making
nursing homes and care facilities conditional in all commercial zones with the exception of
professional office.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that one of the areas of the Elderly Housing Overlay Zone limits how
large or small the project can be. The current Ordinance language specifies not less than
one acre or larger than 10 acres and under this amendment, density and development
standards would be regulated by the underlying zone. He emphasized the importance of
incentivizing elderly housing and ensuring that it is truly geared toward the elderly and not
just facilitating density. The current Ordinance requires a minimum of three physical
characteristics that make the units more accessible and appropriate to seniors while
ensuring that the City justifies any density bonuses. Enforcement was reviewed.

Commissioner Cluff asked for clarification regarding developers potentially coming in and
wanting to take advantage of the density allowance. She asked if the City sees properties
like these being built with the understanding that they are for the elderly and then end up
being standard high-density housing. Mr. Lethbridge explained that is not being seen
throughout Riverton due to the limited number of these types of projects. In planning and
land development, staff anticipates the worst someone could do with the language. They
expect the best but try to anticipate and plan for loopholes and ensure that there is a balance
in place. Doing so helps staff determine when and if the standard is applied.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 4
March 11, 2021


Density bonus issues were next discussed. Mr. Lethbridge stated that they addressed the
potential of a density bonus by producing incentives to provide housing that is targeted and
restricted to seniors. Implementation can be done specifying that if approved, 50% above
the underlying density can be applied. He expressed concern with this creating situations
where the zoning map does not accurately reflect what is being built on a property. In
crafting this as presented, the density bonus will be granted over the General Plan
designation meaning that the City could approve an R-M-6 zone provided it meets all
requirements of the Elderly Housing Overlay. This would allow, without amending the
General Plan, additional density to be approved. He noted that the Ordinance states that
elderly housing should be restricted to 80% primary residency to individuals ages 55 and
over consistent with State and Federal law.

Commissioner Cannon stated that he has extensive experience with empty nester
communities. He believed this was not so much an economic issue as seniors will pay a lot
to be in these types of communities. Enforcement of the 55 years of age and older can be
very difficult and he asked if a developer should be incentivized or penalized for
incorporating some type of a mixed-use element.

Mr. Lethbridge confirmed that the Ordinance addresses the multi-family zones and contains
an open space requirement of 25 to 30 percent, which gives the Planning Commission
discretion to make recommendations. He believed they will most likely see this as a tool for
infill and it may be used in situations where high-density housing is debatable and senior
housing may be more acceptable. Elderly housing can still be done under any of the
residential zones and this would be a specific tool for an area where increasing density would
be inconsistent with some of the planning but would be a better fit.

Commissioner Breinholt stated that there are a number of requirements allowing people to
live in these communities and asked if they are tied to Code somehow and questioned
enforcement. He gave an example of a high-rise community presently being targeted by
gang members. Mr. Lethbridge remarked that the language referenced has been removed
from the upcoming draft and he included the current Ordinance with language as it stands
for reference. That language is not a standard they would keep in place for elderly housing
and commercial code language has changed significantly relative to State law. He
confirmed that the City does not and cannot regulate rental versus ownership as it is a private
property matter. Even in areas that are not aggressively enforced by an HOA, the tone and
feel of the development tends to attract seniors or the elderly.

Commissioner Cannon recounted senior community projects including The Vistas and
Tithing Hill. He stated that the amenities incorporated into The Vistas have withstood the
test of time and although residents showed resistance to density at first, there are now
people waiting to get into those types of projects. Density between The Vistas and Tithing
Hill are similar with The Vistas having more amenities. He pointed out that although only
15% of the residents use the pool, all are willing to pay for its construction and maintenance.
He cautioned about enforcement of the age requirement. It was requested that a more
detailed transcription of their dialogue be incorporated into the minutes moving forward to
avoid potential conflicts.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
March 11, 2021


Mr. Lethbridge explained that although this item is queued up for a public hearing and action,
that action can be to continue should the Commission wish to receive additional information
or amendments. He encouraged the Commission Members to review specific comments in
the minutes and make necessary changes prior to approval.

Commissioner Brown asked why when a developer wishes to change the density it is not
more simple to change the zoning as part of the application. Mr. Lethbridge explained that
density would be granted through a zone change. He felt that the bonus could be granted
over the General Plan so that the underlying zoning reflects the density being given. He
also wished to provide structure for the density bonus. The General Plan reflects what the
Planning Commission and City Council have determined are appropriate land uses for the
area. He would like to move away from times where they are rewriting the underlying zoning
and applying the SD designations, which can create confusion long-term and the potential
for subjective application of the Ordinance.

Commissioner Russell moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of the Ordinance amendments to Section 18.120, Elderly Housing Overlay Zone, 18.90
Table of Commercial Uses, and Conditional Uses sections within the commercial
zones, with the following modifications and amendments:

       1.     Incorporating pertinent Commission comments from the Commission
              and having detailed minutes for review at a later time.

Commissioner Brown seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

4.     DECISION ITEMS

There were no decision items.

5.     DISCUSSION ITEMS

There were no discussion items.

6.     MINUTES

       a.     FEBRUARY 11, 2021.

Commissioner Cannon moved to APPROVE the minutes of February 11, 2021.
Commissioner Russell seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.
