                             MEMORANDUM
To:            Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:          Planning Department
Date:          April 19, 2022
Subject:       Ordinance 22-13 “Perry Rezone” Rezone Of Approximately 3.79-Acres At
               4623 West 12600 South, From SP-Commercial to Commercial Gateway.
               Applicant- Michael Perry.


On March 10, 2022, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider this rezone
application. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted
to recommend approval of the rezone, with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance #22-13, rezoning 3.79-acres located at 4623 West
12600 South from SP-Commercial to Commercial Gateway (C-G), as shown on Exhibit “A”.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant for 3.79-acres at 4623
West 12600 South. The subject property is a vacant parcel on the southwest corner of 12600
South and 4570 West with about 600-ft of frontage on 12600 South. 12600 South is the
Riverton-Herriman City Boundary in this area. To the north of the subject property is Maverik
convenience store and about 10-acres of vacant commercial land. To west is the Big-O tire
store. To the south is Riverton City Park and Jordan Valley School District Property.

The property is currently zoned “SP-Commercial” which means Specific Plan Commercial. It
was zoned commercial on May 16, 2000 as part of the Western Springs Specific Plan which
adopted a Special Zoning Designation for about 182-acres along Riverton City’s west side.
The Western Springs Specific Plan included unique zoning and land-use regulations for both
residential and commercial uses. The residential portions of Western Springs were completed
before 2017. The lone commercial project, Big-O Tires, was built in 2016. The applicant is
requesting this rezone to Commercial Gateway to change the land-uses available on the vacant
commercial property. The Western Springs Plan anticipated future changes to the plan or
properties might be necessary and made provisions and allowances for such changes.

The General Plan designation for the area is Community Commercial. Zoning designations that
are appropriate for the General Plan Designation are Commercial Gateway (C-G), Commercial
Neighborhood (C-N) and Commercial professional Office (C-PO).

The applicant is requesting a rezone to the C-G zone, The C-G Zone is a commercial zone
that allows a variety of retail, service and office uses and is intended to be applied along major
roads near the entrances, or gateways, of our city. The ordinance defining the purpose of the
 C-G zone even identifies 12600 South as a likely location for C-G zoning. (See the entire
 purpose statement below).

 Riverton City Code 18.135.020 discusses zoning amendments and provides criteria to help
 evaluate rezone applications. The criteria include:

     (a) The proposed amendment will place all property similarly situated into the same zoning
     classification or in complementary classification.

     (b) That all uses permitted under the proposed zoning amendment are in the general public interest
     and not merely in the interest of an individual or small group.

     (c) All uses permitted under the proposed zoning classifications amendment will be appropriate in the
     area to be included in the proposed zoning amendment.

     (d) The character of the neighborhood will not be adversely affected by any use permitted in the
     proposed zoning classifications.

     (e) The proposed zoning amendment is consistent with the city’s master plan.



 Public Notices and Response

 Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s
 web-page. At the time of this report no public comments have been received.



 Ordinances


 18.135.020 Zoning Amendments.
(1) The zoning map and use restrictions may be amended by the city council from time to time, but any
amendment shall be first submitted to the planning commission for its review and recommendation. No
proposed amendment affecting the number, shape, boundary or zoning classification of any zone shall be
adopted unless the proposed zoning ordinance amendment complies with the following criteria:

     (a) The proposed amendment will place all property similarly situated into the same zoning
     classification or in complementary classification.

     (b) That all uses permitted under the proposed zoning amendment are in the general public interest
     and not merely in the interest of an individual or small group.

     (c) All uses permitted under the proposed zoning classifications amendment will be appropriate in the
     area to be included in the proposed zoning amendment.

     (d) The character of the neighborhood will not be adversely affected by any use permitted in the
     proposed zoning classifications.
      (e) The proposed zoning amendment is consistent with the city’s master plan.




18.70.010 Commercial Gateway Zone Purpose.
The “Gateway,” as established by area and definition in the Riverton City commercial district master plan, is
where a combination of retail, professional businesses and related activities are encouraged and
established. Regulations of this district are designed to provide a suitable environment for those
commercial and service uses which can be well integrated with the adjacent mixed commercial and
residential zones.

The “Gateway” shall be any property aligned with main arteries, such as Redwood Road and 12600 South,
at or near entrances to the city.

Recommendation
The Planning Commission recommended approval of this rezone application, and staff concurs with
that recommendation.



 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

         1.   Rezone Application.
         2.   Zoning Map.
         3.   General Plan Map.
         4.   Planning Commission minutes
PC Minutes
                      RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               MEETING MINUTES
                                MARCH 10, 2022

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                   Staff:

Shelly Cluff, Chair                            Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Keith Breinholt                                Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Gary Cannon
Evan Matheson
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Shelly Cluff called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. Commissioner
Rushton led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.     PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

       A.     REZONE, “PERRY REZONE”, REZONE OF APPROXIMATELY 3.79-
              ACRES AT 4623 WEST 12600 SOUTH. APPLICANT- MICHAEL PERRY.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the staff report and stated the proposed rezone
application will be a legislative action. The Commission will make a recommendation to the
City Council who will make the final decision. Notices were sent to neighbors within 1,000
feet of the property. There were no comments submitted to staff. The 3.79-acre subject
property is located on the corner of 4570 West and 12600 South.

The applicant, Michael Perry, was present on behalf of Perry LHP Investments, which is
connected to Perry Homes. It was reported that the Perry Group developed the Western
Springs Development in the early 2000s. All of the homes in the development are built out,
but the commercial area in the front of the property remains vacant. When the subject
property was originally proposed as part of the Western Springs Development Master Plan,
it was designated as S-P Commercial. The S-P or Community Commercial zoning crosses
12600 South and includes all of the downtown area, the crossroads of 2700 West and 12600
South, the commercial component at the entrance to the City on Redwood Road, and the
commercial development south to Bluffdale. Mr. Prestwich described the various types of
commercial uses in the area on a map displayed.

The General Plan denotes what the City intended for the area or what the City would accept
for zoning. The Zoning Plan shows what the actual zones are and what rules apply to those
zones. He stated that the subject parcel is part of the Western Springs Specific Plan.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                2
March 10, 2022


Mr. Prestwich shared the history of the zoning map and identified the various commercial
uses in the area and the S-P Commercial Zoning. From the General Plan, Community
Commercial zoning changed to C-G (Commercial Gateway) and C-N (Neighborhood
Commercial) zoning, with some C-PO (Professional Office Commercial) mixed in. He
indicated that C-G Zoning is appropriate for the General Plan and the proposed area, which
is what the applicant was requesting. He presented the original concept plan and stated
that it ended up being fairly close to what was built.

The zoning ordinance within the Western Springs Development Plan specifies that the
Neighborhood Commercial area shall be developed under the regulations set forth in the
Riverton City Zoning Ordinance, Neighborhood Commercial Zone. C-N is the most
restrictive and difficult to develop under, while C-G has more available uses. The subject
property qualifies for C-G zoning, which was intended for uses along entrances into the City.

Mr. Perry reported that Perry Commercial is a sister company to Perry Homes. They do not
know what type of business will be coming into the commercial area, but by rezoning, they
hope to broaden what is possible. Perry Commercial will be building, holding, and leasing
the buildings long-term.

Commissioner Rushton stated that Perry Homes was the original developer of the project
and they have remained invested and involved in the area during that time.

There were no further public comments. Chair Cluff closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-22-4002, for 3.79-acres at 4623 West 12600 South,
proposed Rezone to Commercial Gateway (C-G) Zone, consistent with the provisions
of the Western Springs Specific Plan. Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

       B.     MINOR SUBDIVISION, “KENLOR SUBDIVISION”, TO BE LOCATED AT
              13244 SOUTH 1300 WEST. APPLICANT-KENT AND LORI DENNY.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the application involves dividing one
lot into two. It is located on 13200 South just east of the Cemetery on the south side of the
road. A few years ago the City made improvements on 13200 South, and this property has
frontage on 1300 West. He showed the subject property on the map and explained that it is
1.37-acres and backs onto the canal. Currently, there is an existing home on the property.
An older house that was previously on the property had been removed. Mr. Prestwich
reported that notice was provided to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject
property. No rezoning or Conditional Use Permits were needed and this was the first notice
that has been sent out. There were a few neighbors with questions regarding water rights
and the possibility of purchasing a lot. No major concerns were expressed.
