                                                                       Executive Summary
                                                                       Resolution No. 26-07



Honorable Mayor and Council,


Staff is proposing 2 changes to the City’s Personnel Policies & Procedures Manual, below are
explanations for both proposed changes.

Section 5.5 Holiday Leave (See Exhibit A)
Background
In 2022, the State of Utah added Juneteenth National Independence Day as an official state holiday. The
City subsequently adopted the observance of Juneteenth in alignment with the State of Utah’s
approach.
The City’s current Personnel Policies & Procedures Manual, Section 5.5 (Holiday Leave), provides that
City staff will observe Juneteenth on Monday, June 19, or on the Monday prior to June 19 if the holiday
falls on a Tuesday through Friday, or the Monday following June 19 if the holiday falls on a Saturday or
Sunday.
Recommendation
Staff recommends amending the Personnel Policies & Procedures Manual to observe Juneteenth on
June 19, regardless of the day of the week on which it falls. If June 19 falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the
City will continue its standard holiday practice of recognizing the holiday on the preceding Friday (if
Saturday) or the following Monday (if Sunday).
This change is intended to align the City’s observance more closely with the calendar date of Juneteenth
and to reduce confusion for the general public regarding City office closures.


Section 5.15 Catastrophic Leave (See Exhibit B)
Background
The City’s current Personnel Policies & Procedures Manual, Section 5.15 (Catastrophic Leave), allows
employees to voluntarily donate vacation or comp time to an eligible employee. The policy does not
currently permit the donation of sick leave.
The City presently has an employee who may qualify for catastrophic leave, prompting staff to review
the existing policy. During this review, the Administrative Services Department has also received
multiple requests from employees to amend the policy to allow the donation of sick leave under
appropriate safeguards.


            12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 254-0704 • rivertoncity.com
Recommendation
Staff recommends approval of revisions to the Personnel Policies & Procedures Manual to allow
employees to donate sick leave for catastrophic leave purposes, subject to specific conditions. These
conditions include:
       Limiting the number of sick leave hours that may be donated per employee, per catastrophic
        event; and
       Crediting donated sick leave at 50 percent of the donated hours to the receiving employee.




           12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 254-0704 • rivertoncity.com
