                                       City Council Meeting Agenda
                                               May 6, 2025


PRESENTER:                 Jason Lethbridge

                           Ordinance No. 25-14 - Amending Riverton City Code Section 18.135.200,
                           Temporary Commercial Uses, Addressing Temporary Commercial Uses on
ITEM:
                           Residential Property, Amendments Proposed by Riverton City - Jason
                           Lethbridge, Development Services Director

SUMMARY:

In response to feedback received from the City Council at the previous hearing, the proposed language
has been further amended. Language was added clarifying the lighting standards, the requirement for a
conditional use permit was removed, and the limitation on residentially zoned properties to “holiday”
uses only was removed

Riverton City periodically reviews sections of its land use code, and staff has been directed to prepare
such a review of Section 18.135.200 which regulates temporary commercial uses such as Christmas
tree lots, fireworks stands, and similar uses. Specifically, the review has examined current standards
which limit such uses to commercially zoned property.

The limitation to commercial property was made in part due to concerns with traffic volumes, hours of
operation, lighting, and similar issues which potentially create impacts detrimental to residential areas.
 Should the City wish to extend temporary commercials to certain residential properties where such
impacts could be mitigated, limitations could be adopted to further minimize potential impacts.

FISCAL IMPACT:             N/A

FUNDING SOURCE:            N/A

ATTACHMENTS:

Ordinance No. 25-14 - Temporary Commercial Uses Ordinance.pdf
25-14 Temporary Commercial Uses CC Staff Report.pdf

RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:

On March 27, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this proposed text
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted to
recommend approval with the following recommended motion:
I move the City Council adopt Ordinance #25-14, amending Riverton City Code Section 18.135.200,
Temporary Commercial Uses, addressing temporary commercial uses on residential property as shown
in Exhibit A.

                                                                                                             1
