                                           Exhibit A
                                        Legislative Copy



                        FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE

                                             ARTICLE I

   STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS


15.45.010 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
The Legislature of the state of Utah delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to minimize the flood losses. Therefore, Riverton City, Utah, does
ordain as follows.

The Legislature of the State of Utah has in Utah Code § 10-3-701 delegated the responsibility
 to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore the City Council of Riverton City does or has delegated the
responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, does ordain as follows.


15.45.020 FINDINGS OF FACT
         (1) The flood hazard areas of Riverton City are subject to periodic inundation which results
in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.

        (2) These flood loses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards
areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately
elevated, floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.


15.45.030 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions
designed to:

    1. Protect human life and health;

    2. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;

    3. Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally
      undertaken at the expense of the general public;

   4. Minimize prolonged business interruptions;

   5. Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
      telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;

   6. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of flood-prone
      areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood blight areas; and

   7. Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area.


15.45.040 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES
   1. In order to accomplish its purposes, this ordinance uses the following methods:

   2. Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or property in times of flood,
      or cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;

   3. Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
      protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;

   4. Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective
      barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters;

   5. Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood
      damage;

   6. Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert flood
      waters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands.



                                             ARTICLE II

15.45.050 DEFINITIONS
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance shall be interpreted to
give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this ordinance its most reasonable
application.

ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING - means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-velocity flows; active
processes of erosion, sediment transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.

APEX - means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the
major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding can occur.

Area of future-conditions flood hazard means the land area that would be inundated by the 1-
percent-annual-chance (100-year) flood based on future-conditions hydrology.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING - means a designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a
community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent chance or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does
not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident.
Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.

AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD - is the land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be
designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed ratemaking
has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into
Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or V.

BASE FLOOD - means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.

BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) - is the water surface elevation of the 1-percent-annual-
chance flood event. It is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters
of the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the
elevation shown on the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from
the flood that has a 1-percent chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.

BASEMENT - means any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground level)
on all sides.

BUILDING -
For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
as well as a manufactured home.
For insurance purposes, means:

        (a) A structure with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof, that is affixed
            to a permanent site; or
        (b) A manufactured home (a “manufactured home,” also known as a mobile home, is a
            structure built on a permanent chassis, transported to its site in one or more sections, and
            affixed to a permanent foundation); or
        (c) A travel trailer without wheels, built on a chassis and affixed to a permanent foundation,
            that is regulated under the community’s floodplain management and building ordinances
            or laws.

CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION - means FEMA's comment on a proposed
project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective Base
Flood Elevations, or the Special Flood Hazard Area. The letter does not revise an effective map; it
indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.

CRITICAL FEATURE - means an integral and readily identifiable part of a flood protection
system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.

DEVELOPMENT - means any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.

ELEVATED BUILDING - means a non-basement building (i) built, in the case of a building in
Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in
the case of a building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means of pilings,
columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of the water and (ii) adequately
anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up to the
magnitude of the base flood. In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D,
"elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of flood waters.
In the case of Zones V1-30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise
meeting the definition of "elevated building," even though the lower area is enclosed by means of
breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met the standards of Section 60.3(e)(5) of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.

ENCLOSED AREA - is that portion of an elevated building below the lowest elevated floor that is
either partially or fully enclosed by rigid walls. For the purposes of the NFIP, enclosed areas can be
an enclosure, crawlspace, subgrade crawlspace, or attached garage.

ENCLOSURE - is the area below an elevated building that is partially or fully enclosed and over 5’
in height from enclosure floor to finish floor elevation of the floor immediately above the enclosed
area.

EXISTING CONSTRUCTION - means for the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before
January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be
referred to as "existing structures."

EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which
the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities,
the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community.

EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION-
Means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).

FLOOD OR FLOODING - means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:

    (a) the overflow of inland or tidal waters.
    (b) the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
    (c) Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as defined herein and
        are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as
        when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
    (d) The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result
        of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated
       cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of
       water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash
       flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
       which results in flooding as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this definition.

FLOOD ELEVATION - determination means a determination by the Administrator of the
water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a one percent or greater
chance of occurrence in any given year.

FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) - means an official map of a community, on
which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. Optional to add: A FIRM that has
been made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).

FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY - is the official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation of the base
flood, as well as the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map (if applicable), Flood Insurance Rate Map and
supporting technical data.

FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA - means any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of flooding).

FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT - means the operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management regulations.

FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS - means zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain
ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police
power. The term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which
provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.


FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM - means those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically
to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas within a community subject to a
"special flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system
typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.

FLOOD PROOFING - means any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or
improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.

FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY) - means the channel of a river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.

Freeboard means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of
flood plain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for the many unknown factors that
could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and
floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.

FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE - means a use which cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only
docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities, but does not include long-term storage or
related manufacturing facilities.

HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE - means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.

HISTORIC STRUCTURE - means any structure that is:

    1. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the
       Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
       meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;

    2. Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the
       historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined
       by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;

    3. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic
       preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of Interior; or

    4. Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in communities with historic
       preservation programs that have been certified either:
               a) by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or;

                b) directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.


LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT - means an official amendment, by letter, to an effective map.
A LOMA establishes a property’s location in relation to the Special Flood Hazard Area and are
usually issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain, but is
actually on natural high ground above the base flood elevation.

LETTER OF MAP REVISION - means FEMA's modification to an effective Flood Insurance Rate
Map, or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally based on the
implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a
flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective
Base Flood Elevations, or the Special Flood Hazard Area.

LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL - means FEMA’s modification of the Special
Flood Hazard Area shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map based on the placement of fill outside
the existing regulatory floodway.

CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION - means FEMA's comment on a proposed
project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective Base
Flood Elevations, or the Special Flood Hazard Area. The letter does not revise an effective map; it
indicates whether the project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA. A CLOMR does
not replace a floodplain development permit.

LEVEE - means a man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the flow
of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.

LEVEE SYSTEM - means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated
in accordance with sound engineering practices.

LOWEST FLOOR - means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking or vehicles, building access
or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor;
provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of Section 60.3 of the National Flood insurance
Program regulations.

MANUFACTURED HOME - means a structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not include a
"recreational vehicle".

MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

MEAN SEA LEVEL - means, for purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood
elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.

NEW CONSTRUCTION - means, for the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. For floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management
regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.

NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE - means a vehicle which is:
  1. built on a single chassis;
  2. 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
  3. designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
  4. designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters
     for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY - means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.

SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA - see “area of special flood hazard”.

SPECIAL HAZARD AREA - means an area having special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), or
flood-related erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, AR,
AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, A99, AH, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M, or E.

START OF CONSTRUCTION - (for other than new construction or substantial improvements
under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)), includes substantial improvement and
means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the
permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation
for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.

STRUCTURE - means a walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that
is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.

Subgrade Crawlspace is a type of crawlspace when the floor of the crawlspace will be located
below the exterior grades on all sides. If one side of a crawlspace “daylights” to the exterior
grade, then it is a crawlspace. Height limitations apply.


SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE - means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent
of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.

SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT - means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market
value of the structure before "start of construction" of the improvement. This includes structures
which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include either:

    1. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
       health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
       enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary conditions or

    2. Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration will not preclude the
       structure's continued designation as a "historic structure."

VARIANCE - is a grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this ordinance when
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits
construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this ordinance. (For full
requirements see Section 60.6 of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.).

VIOLATION - means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with
the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without
the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in Section
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such
time as that documentation is provided.

WATER SURFACE ELEVATION - means the height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various magnitudes
and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.


                                              ARTICLE III

                                       GENERAL PROVISIONS


15.45.060 LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES
The ordinance shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of
Riverton City.


15.45.070 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for Riverton City,” dated
September 25, 2009, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary-floodway
maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of this chapter. Riverton City automatically adopts and recognizes all subsequent FEMA
flood insurance rate maps, updates and changes

The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For Salt Lake County", dated
November 19th, 2021, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and any revisions or
amendments thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter/ordinance.

15.45.080 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT

A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this
chapter.
Any development permit affecting land within a floodplain, including without limitation preliminary
plat approval, final plat approval, site plan approval, or a building permit, shall be required to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this ordinance.
15.45.090 COMPLIANCE
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed without full
compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations.

15.45.100 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS
This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and another ordinance, easement, covenant,
or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall
prevail.

15.45.110 INTERPRETATION
In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions shall be:

    1. considered as minimum requirements;

    2. liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and

    3. deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State statutes.

15.45.120 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY
The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions greater floods
can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes.
This ordinance does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This ordinance shall not create
liability on the part of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. .

15.45.125 SEVERABILITY
If any section, provision, or portion of this ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a
court, the remainder of the ordinance shall not be affected.




                                             ARTICLE IV

                                         ADMINISTRATION

15.45.130 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
The city engineer city manager or designee is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR
(National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.

15.45.140 DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:

    1. Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of
       this ordinance.

    2. Review permit application to determine whether proposed building site, including the
       placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.

    3. Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits required by adoption
       of this ordinance.

    4. Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
       obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental agencies (including Section 404
       of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from
       which prior approval is required.

    5. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of
       special flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
       mapped boundary and actual field conditions) the Floodplain Administrator shall make
       the necessary interpretation.

    6. Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Agency
       which is Utah Division of Emergency Management, State Floodplain Manager, prior to any
       alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
       Federal Emergency Management Agency.

    7. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any
       watercourse is maintained.

    8. When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
       RCC 15.45.070, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any
       base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a Federal, State or other
       source, in order to administer the provisions of Article 5.

    9. When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain Administrator must
        require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other development
       (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM,
        unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
        combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water
        surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.

    10. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the National Flood
        Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain development in Zones
        A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of
        the base flood by more than one foot, provided that the community first applies for a
        conditional FIRM revision through FEMA (Conditional Letter of Map Revision).

15.45.150 PERMIT PROCEDURES
Application for a Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator on
forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale
showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the location of the
foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is
required:

       1. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
          new and substantially improved structures;

       2. Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential structure shall be
          floodproofed;

       3. A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect that the nonresidential
          floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing criteria of Article 5, Section B(2);

       4. Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be altered or
          relocated as a result of proposed development.

       5. Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with RCC 15.45.140(1).

Approval or denial of a Development Permit by the Floodplain Administrator shall be based on
all of the provisions of this ordinance and the following relevant factors:

       1. The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;

       2. The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect
          of such damage on the individual owner;

       3. The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;

       4. The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;

       5. The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency
          vehicles;

       6. The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions including
          maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public utilities and facilities such as
          sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;

       7. The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the flood
          waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;

       8. The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;

       9. The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion damage, for the
          proposed use;

       10. The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that area.
15.45.160 VARIANCE PROCEDURES
     1. The appeal Board as established by the community shall hear and render judgement on
        requests for variances from the requirements of this ordinance.

     2. The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgement on an appeal only when it is alleged
        there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain
        Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this ordinance.

     3. Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal such
        decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.

     4. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal
        and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.

     5. Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures
        listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places,
        without regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this ordinance.

     6. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected
        on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
        structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in
        Section C(2) of this Article have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond
        the one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.

     7. Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this ordinance, the Appeal
        Board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
        further the purpose and objectives of this ordinance (RCC 15.45.030).

     8. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood
        levels during the base flood discharge would result.

     9. Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
        determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
        continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to
        preserve the historic character and design of the structure.

     10. Prerequisites for granting variances:

             a) Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the
                minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.

             b) Variances shall only be issued upon:

                     1) showing a good and sufficient cause;

                     2) a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
                        exceptional hardship to the applicant, and

                     3) a determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
                        flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
                          expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
                          conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.

                c) Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that
                   the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor elevation below the
                   base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate
                   with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.

    11. Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and substantial
        improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
        dependent use provided that:

                a) the criteria outlined in Article 4, Section D(1)-(9) are met, and

                b) the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood
                   damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.


                                             ARTICLE V

                      PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION


15.45.170 GENERAL STANDARDS
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for all new construction
and substantial improvements:

    1. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or modified) and
       adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
       resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;

    2. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by methods and
       practices that minimize flood damage;

    3. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials
       resistant to flood damage;
    4. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with electrical,
       heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities
       that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
       within the components during conditions of flooding.

    5. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
       infiltration of flood waters into the system;

    6. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
       infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge from the systems into flood
       waters; and,

    7. On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or
       contamination from them during flooding.
15.45.180 SPECIFIC STANDARDS
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been provided as set
forth in RCC 15.45.070, 15.45.140(8), or 15.45.190(3)), the
following provisions are required:

1. Residential Construction - new construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement), elevated to one foot or above the base
flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in
RCC 15.45.150(1)(a)., is satisfied.

 2. Nonresidential Construction - new construction and substantial improvements of any
commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated one foot or above the base flood level or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in
accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such
certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.

(3) Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below the
lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other
than a basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs
for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:

        (a) A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.

        (b) The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade.

       (c) Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices;
provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.

 3. Enclosed Areas – including enclosures, crawlspaces, subgrade crawlspaces, and attached
garages - new construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below the lowest
floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to:
           a) automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the
               entry and exit of floodwaters.
           b) Flood vents meeting ICC-ES standards may be used with the bottom of all openings
               shall be no higher than one foot above grade and a minimum of two openings, or
           c) Vents certified by a registered professional engineer or architect meet or exceed the
               following minimum criteria:
                i. A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square
                   inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
               ii. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade.
              iii. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or
                   devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.

       Enclosures are areas that have a height greater than 5 feet from the enclosure floor to the
       finish floor elevation above.

       Crawlspaces have at least one side of the crawlspace floor at or above the exterior grade. The
       crawlspace floor must be less than 5 feet from the finish floor elevation above.
       Subgrade crawlspaces have an exterior grade that cannot be more than 2’ above crawlspace
       floor elevation and a finish floor elevation of floor immediately above cannot be more than 5’
       above the crawlspace floor.

4. Manufactured Homes –

        a) Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a community's
          FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize
          flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
          elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of
          anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
          ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable State and local
          anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.

       b) Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within
          Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites (i) outside of a
          manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured home park or
          subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
          subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
          manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be
          elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured
          home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
          adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
          movement.

       c) Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved on sites in an
          existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30, AH and AE on
          the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of paragraph (4) of this
          section be elevated so that either:

               1) the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
                  elevation, or

               2) the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
                  foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than 36
                  inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
                  anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.

5. Recreational Vehicles - Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones
A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either:
a) be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,

b) be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or

c) meet the permit requirements of RCC 15.45.150(1), and the elevation and anchoring requirements
for "manufactured homes" in paragraph (4) of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.


15.45.190 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS
       1. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall be consistent with RCC 15.45.020, 15.45.030 and 15.45.040 of this ordinance.

      2. All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development Permit requirements of
RCC 15.45.080, 15.45.150 of this ordinance.

        3. Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
development including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions.18 which is
greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to
RCC 15.45.070 or 15.45.140(8) of this ordinance.

       4. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.

        5. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.


15.45.200 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES)
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in RCC 15.45.070, are areas
designated as shallow flooding, known as AO or AH Zones. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply:

(1) All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number
specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified).

(2) All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential structures:

         (a) Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at
least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no
depth number is specified); or
        (b) Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so that below the base
flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.

(3) A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a certification to the floodplain
administrator that the standards of this section, as proposed in RCC 15.45.150(1)(a), are satisfied.

(4) Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes, to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.

(1) Require within AO or AH Zones that all new construction and substantial improvements of
residential structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to 1 ft freeboard above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's
FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified).

(2) Require within AO or AH Zones that all new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures;

        (a) have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to 1 ft freeboard above the highest
adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at
least two feet if no depth number is specified), or;

        (b) together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so that below the base
flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.

(3) A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a certification to the Floodplain
Administrator that the standards of this Section, as proposed in RCC 15.45.150(1)(a), are satisfied.

(4) Require within AO or AH Zones adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes, to guide
flood waters around and away from proposed structures.


15.45.210 FLOODWAYS
Floodways - located within areas of special flood hazard established in RCC 15.45.070, are areas
designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:

    1. Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and
other development within the adopted regulatory floodway unless it has been demonstrated through
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that
the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the community
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.

    2. If RCC 15.45.210 (1) above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Article 5.
   3. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the National Flood Insurance
Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that
would result in an increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first applies for a
conditional FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA.



                                     Article VI. Enforcement

15.45.220 Penalties for noncompliance.
       No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted, or
       altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter ordinance and other
       applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply
       with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
       established in connection with conditions) shall constitute a class B misdemeanor.
       Nothing herein contained shall prevent Riverton City from taking such other lawful
       action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
