                         Title 7
RIVERTON CITY ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
                                           Chapters:


              7.01    Administrative Enforcement Program
              7.02    Administrative Enforcement Hearing Procedures
              7.03    Administrative Abatement
              7.04    Emergency Abatement
              7.05    Administrative Citations
              7.06    Costs and Fees

                             Chapter 7.01
                ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
                                             Sections:
       7.01.010      Short title.
       7.01.020      Purpose.
       7.01.030      Scope.
       7.01.040      Existing law continued.
       7.01.050      Criminal prosecution right.
       7.01.060      Effect of headings.
       7.01.070      Severability.
       7.01.080      Civil liability.
       7.01.090      General rules of interpretation.
       7.01.100      Definitions applicable to title generally.
       7.01.110      Acts include causing, aiding, and abetting.
       7.01.120      Service of notice requirements.
       7.01.130      General enforcement authority.
       7.01.140      Adoption of policy and procedures.
       7.01.150      Authority to inspect.
       7.01.160      False information or refusal prohibited.
       7.01.170      Failure to obey a subpoena.

7.01.010 Short title.

This title shall be known as the “administrative code enforcement” or “ACE” program. This title
shall also be known as Title 7 of the Riverton City Municipal Code. It may be cited and pleaded
under either designation.


7.01.020 Purpose.
The city council finds that the enforcement of the Riverton City Municipal Code and applicable
state codes is an important public activity. Code enforcement is vital to the protection of the
public’s health, safety, welfare, and quality of life. The city council recognizes that code
enforcement is effective only when done quickly and fairly. The City Council further finds that
a comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a combination of judicial and
administrative remedies is a valuable tool to achieve compliance with City Code. Failure to
comply with an administrative code enforcement action may result in the filing of a
criminal action by the City Attorney’s Office to gain compliance.

7.01.030 Scope.

The provisions of this title may be applied to all violations of the Riverton City Municipal Code or
applicable state codes which occur within Riverton City limits. This title establishes an
additional remedy that may be used by the city to achieve compliance with applicable codes.


7.01.040 Existing law continued.

The provisions of this title shall not invalidate any other title, chapter, or ordinance of the
Riverton City Municipal Code but shall be read in conjunction with those titles, chapters, and
ordinances and may be used as an additional remedy for enforcement of violations thereof.


7.01.050 Right to Civil and Criminal prosecution.

The city shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to pursue an administrative enforcement
action or file a civil or criminal judicial case for the violation of any of its ordinances or
applicable code requirements. The enactment of this title shall not be construed to limit the
city’s right to prosecute any violation as a criminal offense. If the city chooses to file both
administrative actions as well as Civil and criminal charges for the same violation, no civil fees
shall be assessed in the administrative action, but all other remedies contained herein shall be
available.


7.01.060 Effect of headings.

Title, chapter, and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit,
modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the provisions of this title.


7.01.070 Severability.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision of this title is, for any
reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this title. The
city council hereby declares that it would have adopted this title and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions, or provisions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. This section shall apply to all amendments made to this title


7.01.080 Civil liability.

By establishing performance standards or by establishing obligations to act, it is the intent of
the city council that Riverton City employees and officers are exercising discretionary authority
in pursuit of an essential governmental function and that any such standards or obligations
shall not be construed as creating a ministerial duty for purposes of legal liability.


7.01.090 General rules of interpretation.

For purposes of this title:

   A.   Any gender includes any other gender.
   B.   "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
   C.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   D.   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense, and vice versa.
   E.   Words and phrases used in this title and not specifically defined shall be construed
        according to the context and approved usage of the language.
   F.   Unless otherwise specified, the terms “hereof,” “herein,” and similar terms refer to this
        title as a whole.


7.01.100 Definitions applicable to title generally.

In the construction of this title, the following words and phrases shall be as defined as set forth
in this section unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this title and
specifically stated to apply:

   A. “ABATEMENT” means any action the City may take on public or private property and any
      adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a violation, including, but
      not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding, and securing or replacement of
      property.
   B. “Administrative citation” means a citation issued to a responsible person which gives
      reasonable notice of a violation and the civil fee for such violation.
   C. “Administrative enforcement order” means an order issued by a hearing examiner. The
      order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil fees and administrative
      costs, or any other action as authorized or required by this title and applicable state
      codes.
   D. “Administrative enforcement hearing” means a hearing held pursuant to the
      procedures established by this title and at the request of a responsible person charged
      with a violation.
   E. “City” means the city of Riverton, Utah, including the City Council, Mayor, city manager,
      employees, agents and volunteers of the city, excepting employees of the court.
F. “City council” means the city council of Riverton City.
G. “Code enforcement Lien” means a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties,
   administrative fees, and costs.
H. “Code Enforcement Performance Bond” means a bond posted by a responsible person
   to ensure compliance with this Code, applicable State titles, a judicial action, or an
   administrative code enforcement order.
I. “Director” means the Planning and Zoning department director or his/her designee.
J. “Enforcement official” means any person authorized by the city to enforce violations of
   the Riverton City Municipal Code or applicable state codes including, but not limited to,
   zoning officers, police officers, building inspection officials, code enforcement officers,
   fire marshal, fire officers and animal control officers.
K. “Good Cause” means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability
   due to unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a
   required act causes an imminent and irreparable injury; and acts of nature adverse to
   performing required acts.
L. “Hearing Officer” means a person appointed by the mayor or her designee to preside
   over administrative enforcement hearings as set forth in this chapter.
M. “Imminent life safety hazard” means any condition that creates a serious and
   immediate danger to life, property, health, or public safety.
N. “Mayor” means the mayor of Riverton City.
O. “Notice of compliance” means a document or form approved by the Planning and
   Zoning department director or designee which indicates that a property complies with
   the requirements set forth in a notice of violation.
P. “Notice of emergency abatement” means a written notice that informs a responsible
   person of emergency abatement actions taken by the city and the costs of those
   actions, and orders payment for those costs.
Q. “Notice of itemized bill for costs” means a written notice, itemizing the city’s costs and
   ordering payment of those costs.
R. “Notice of Satisfaction and Release of Judgement” means a document or form approved
   by the Planning and Zoning Department Director or his or her designee, which indicates
   that all outstanding civil penalties and costs have been either paid in full, or that the
   City has negotiated an agreed amount, or that a subsequent administrative or judicial
   decision has resolved the outstanding debt. In addition to the satisfaction of the
   financial debt, the property must also be in compliance with the requirements outlined
   in the notice of violation.
S. “Notice of violation” means a written notice that informs a responsible person of code
   violations and orders certain remedial steps to correct said violations.
T. “Person” means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company,
   partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or
   the manager, lessee, agent, sergeant, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other
   entity that is recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.
U. “Property owner” means the record owner of real property as shown on the records of
   the Salt Lake County assessor/recorder.
V. “Public Nuisance” or “nuisance” means any condition caused, maintained, or permitted
   to exist that is anything that is injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the senses, a
         threat to the public's health, safety, and welfare, or an obstruction to the free use of
         property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property. A public
         nuisance also has the same meaning as set forth in Utah Code Annotated. By way of
         example, and not to be construed as terms of limitation, a nuisance includes any of the
         following:

         (1) Lumber, junk, trash, or debris.

         (2) Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as furniture, stoves,
         refrigerators, freezers, cans, vehicles, or containers.

         (3) Graffiti which is visible from a public street

         (4) Any structure deemed illegal under Riverton City Code

     W. “Responsible person” means the person(s) determined by the city who is responsible
        for causing or maintaining a violation of the Riverton City Midvale Municipal Code or
        applicable state codes. The term “responsible person” shall include, but is not limited to,
        a property owner, agent, tenant, lessee, occupant, trustee, architect, builder, contractor,
        or other person who individually or together with another person is responsible for the
        violation of any provision of the Riverton City Midvale Municipal Code or applicable
        state codes.
     X. “Written” includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, or
        facsimile, in analog, physical or digital format.


7.01.110 Acts include causing, aiding, and abetting.

Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this title, it shall include causing, permitting,
aiding, or abetting such act or omission.


7.01.120 Service of notice requirements.

A. Unless otherwise specified in State Statute or City Code, whenever a notice is required to
be given under this title, the notice shall be served by one of the following methods:

1.   Personal service;

2. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the property owner or a
responsible agent;

3. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property. The form of the posted
notice shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Department Director; or
4. Published in a newspaper of general circulation once per week for four (4) weeks when the
identity or whereabouts of the person to be served are unknown and cannot be ascertained
through reasonable diligence, where service is impracticable under the circumstances, or where
there exists good cause to believe that the person to be served is avoiding service of process..

B. Failure of a responsible person to actually receive notice shall not affect the validity of any
action taken hereunder if notice has been served in the manner set forth herein.

C. Service by regular mail in the manner set forth above shall be deemed served on the third
day after the date of mailing when mailed in the state of Utah. Service by regular mail to all
other addresses shall be deemed served on the tenth day after the date of mailing.

D. The failure of a person, other than a responsible person, to be served notice in accordance
with this section shall not affect the validity of any proceeding taken hereunder.

E. Whenever a document is recorded with the County Recorder as authorized or required by
this title or applicable State codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the
information contained in the recorded documents.


7.01.130 General enforcement authority.

Whenever an enforcement official finds that violation of the Riverton City Code or applicable
state codes has occurred or continues to exist, he may undertake any of the procedures set
forth herein. The director or any designated enforcement official shall have the authority to
gain compliance with the provisions of the Riverton City Code and applicable state codes
subject to the provisions of this title. Such authority shall include the power to issue notices of
violation and administrative citations, inspect public and private property, abate nuisances on
public and private property, and to use any remedy available under this title or law.


7.01.140 Adoption of policy and procedures.

The mayor shall establish policies and procedures consistent with this title, relating to the
hearing procedures, scope of hearings, subpoena powers, and other matters relating to the
Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing Program. However, any such policies and
procedures shall not be inconsistent with this title or State or Federal law.


7.01.150 Authority to inspect.

Enforcement officials are hereby authorized, in accordance with applicable law, to enter upon
any property or premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the Riverton City Code or
applicable state codes are being obeyed and to make any reasonable, lawful examination or
survey necessary to determine compliance with the Riverton City Code or applicable state
codes. This may include the taking of photographs, samples, or other physical evidence. All
inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be done in a reasonable manner. If a
property owner or responsible person refuses to allow an enforcement official to enter
property, the enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant before entering the property.


7.01.160 Power to Arrest

Subject to other applicable law, the Code Enforcement Supervisor or any designated
enforcement official is authorized to arrest, without a warrant, any person whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the person has committed a violation of this Code or
applicable State codes in the enforcement official's presence. If allowed by law, the Code
Enforcement Supervisor or enforcement official can arrest a person by issuing an
administrative citation.

7.01.170 False information or refusal prohibited.

It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give his name
or address with intent to deceive or interfere with an enforcement officer when in the
performance of his official duties under the provisions of this title. A violation of this section
shall be a class B misdemeanor.


7.01.180 Failure to obey a subpoena.

It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an
administrative enforcement hearing. A violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor.




                                 Chapter 7.02
                          ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT
                                            Sections:

        7.02.010   Administrative abatement.
        7.02.020   Notice of violation.
        7.02.030   Failure to correct.
        7.02.040   Inspections.
        7.02.050   Authority to abate.
        7.02.060   Procedures for abatement.
        7.02.070   Procedures for recordation.
        7.02.080   Notice of compliance.
        7.02.090   Prohibition against issuance of municipal permits.
        7.02.100   Civil fees.

7.02.010 Administrative abatement.
Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provision of the
Riverton City Code or applicable state codes may be abated by the city pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this chapter.


7.02.020 Notice of violation.

A. Whenever an enforcement official determines that a violation of the Riverton City Code or
applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, a notice of violation may be issued to
the responsible person. The notice of violation shall include the following information:

1.   Name of the responsible person.

2.   Street address of violation.

3.   Date violation observed.

4. All code sections violated and a description of the condition that violates the applicable
code.

5. All remedial action required to permanently correct any violation, which may include
corrections, repairs, demolition, removal, or other appropriate action.

6.   Specific date to correct the violation set forth in a notice of violation.

7. Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail to comply with the
terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may include, but is not
limited to: criminal prosecution; civil fees; revocation of permits; recordation of the notice of
violation; withholding of municipal permits; abatement of the violation; costs; administrative
fees; and any other legal remedies.

8. Statement that civil fees will begin to accrue immediately on expiration of the date to
correct the violation(s).

9. The amount of the civil fee for each violation and a statement that the civil fee may accrue
daily until the violation is corrected.

10. Demand that the responsible person cease and desist from further action causing the
violation and commence and complete all action to correct violations as directed by the city.

11. Procedures to request an administrative enforcement hearing, and consequences for
failure to request such hearing.

12. Statement that when the violation is brought into compliance the responsible person
must request an inspection.
B. The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of service listed in
Section 7.01.120.


7.02.030 Failure to correct.

It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with the terms and deadlines
set forth in a notice of violation. A violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor.


7.02.040 Inspections.

It shall be the duty of the responsible person to request an inspection when a violation has
been corrected. If no inspection is requested, it shall be deemed prima facie evidence that the
violation remains uncorrected. If more than one inspection is necessary, an inspection fee of
thirty dollars shall be assessed for each subsequent inspection.


7.02.050 Authority to abate.

The director is hereby authorized, upon a determination of probable cause, to enter upon any
property or premises to abate a violation of the Riverton City Code and applicable state codes
as set forth in Section 7.01.150. The director shall assess all costs for abatement to the
responsible person and may use any remedy available under the law to collect such costs.


7.02.060 Procedures for abatement.

A. Violations may be abated by city personnel or by a private contractor acting under the
direction of the city.

B. City personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private property in a reasonable
manner to abate a violation as specified in the notice of violation or administrative enforcement
order.

C. If a responsible person abates the violation before the city abates the violation pursuant to
a notice of violation or administrative enforcement order, the director may nevertheless assess
all costs actually incurred by the city against the responsible person.

D.   When abatement is completed, the director shall prepare a notice of itemized bill for costs.

E. The director shall serve the notice of itemized bill for costs by registered mail to the last
known address of the responsible person or as otherwise set forth in Section 7.01.120 Service
of notice requirements. The notice shall demand full payment within twenty days to the
Riverton City treasurer.

F. The responsible person shall have a right to an administrative enforcement hearing to
contest the notice of itemized bill for costs. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and
shall be filed within ten days from the date of service of the notice of itemized bill for cost.
Failure to request an administrative enforcement hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver
to such hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal.


7.02.070 Procedures for recordation.

For violations of the Riverton City Code and any other applicable code, when a notice of
violation has been served on a responsible person, and the violation remains uncorrected after
the date to correct set forth in the notice of violation, and a request for an administrative
enforcement hearing has not been timely requested, the director may record the notice of
violation with the Salt Lake County recorder’s office.


7.02.080 Notice of compliance.

A. When a violation is corrected, a responsible person shall request an inspection from the
Planning and Zoning Department Director.

B. When the director receives such request, the director shall reinspect the property within
three days to determine whether the violation has been corrected, and whether all necessary
permits have been issued and final inspections have been performed as required by applicable
codes.

C. Within ten days of an inspection in which the officer finds compliance, the director shall
serve a notice of compliance to the responsible person and property owner in the manner
provided in Section 7.01.120 if the director determines that:

1. All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or administrative enforcement order
have been corrected;

2.   All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;

3.   All assessed civil fees have been paid; and

4.   All assessed administrative fees and costs have been paid.

D. The director shall record the notice of compliance with the Salt Lake County recorder’s
office if the notice of violation was recorded. Recordation of the notice of compliance shall have
the affect of canceling the recorded notice of violation.


7.02.090 Prohibition against issuance of municipal permits.

The city shall withhold business licenses, permits for kennels, or permits for any alteration,
repair, or construction pertaining to any existing or new structures or signs on the property, or
any permits pertaining to the use and development of the real property or the structure where
a violation is located. The city shall withhold such permits until a notice of compliance has been
issued by the director. The city shall not withhold permits necessary to obtain a notice of
compliance or to correct serious health and safety violations


7.02.100 Civil fees.

A. If a responsible person fails to correct a violation by the correction date listed in a notice of
violation or in an administrative enforcement order, civil fees shall be owed to the city as
follows:

1.   For any violation set forth on Table 1—Civil Fees, the civil fee shall be as shown on the table.

2. For a violation of Tenant Application Fees, the civil fee shall be one hundred dollars for each
initial violation and two hundred dollars for each additional violation.

3. For any other violation not included on Table 1—Civil Fees, the civil fee for each violation
shall be established by resolution of the Riverton City Council. An additional civil shall be
assessed each and every subsequent day of violation for each separate violation until the
violation is corrected. The maximum amount of civil fees accruable under subsection (A)(2) of
this section for each violation listed in a notice of violation or in an administrative enforcement
order shall be six hundred dollars.

B. Payment of any civil fee shall not excuse any failure to correct a violation or the
reoccurrence of the violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the city.

C.   Civil fees shall be paid to the Riverton City treasurer.

                                         Table 1—Civil Fees

                                                          Civil Fee     First      Civil Fee    Second
                                                          per Day,    Offense,     per Day,    Offense,
                                                            First     Maximum       Second     Maximum
             Type of Violation               Reference    Offense     Civil Fee    Offense     Civil Fee
Occupancy violation                         Per zone      $25 per     $1,250 per   $50 per     $2,500 per
                                                          person      person       person      person
Illegal accessory dwelling                  Per zone      $25         $1,250       $50         $2,500
Junked or inoperable vehicles               Property      $30 per     $1,500 per   $60 per     $3,000 per
                                            Nuisances     vehicle     vehicle      vehicle     vehicle
Trash, junk, miscellaneous used materials   Property      $30         $1,500       $60         $3,000
                                            Nuisances
Weeds                                       Weed          $30         $1,500       $60         $3,000
                                            Control
Landscaping                                 Per zone      $30         $1,500       $60         $3,000
                                                           Civil Fee     First     Civil Fee    Second
                                                           per Day,    Offense,    per Day,    Offense,
                                                             First     Maximum      Second     Maximum
             Type of Violation               Reference     Offense     Civil Fee   Offense     Civil Fee
Signs                                       Per zone       $30         $1,500      $60         $3,000
Fences                                      Per zone       $30         $1,500      $60         $3,000
Dumping                                                    $30         $1,500      $60         $3,000
No building permit; no                                     $30         $1,500      $60         $3,000
business license
Home occupation                                            $30         $1,500      $60         $3,000
Parking                                                    $30         $1,500      $60         $3,000
Nuisances, as defined                                      $30         $1,500      $60         $3,000
Nonpermitted uses                           Per zone       $50         $5,000      $100        $10,000
Failure to comply with board of                            $30         $3,000      $60         $6,000
adjustment, planning commission, or
hearing examiner order



                                     Chapter 7.03
                                 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT
                                               Sections:

          7.03.010   Emergency abatement.
          7.03.020   Procedures.

7.03.010 Emergency abatement.

A. Whenever the Planning and Zoning Department Director determines that an imminent life
safety hazard exists in accordance with the International Building Code, International
Residential Code and/or the International Fire Code that requires immediate correction or
elimination, the director shall exercise the following powers without prior notice to the
responsible person:

            1. Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy until all
            repairs are completed;

            2.   Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;

            3.   Board, fence, or secure the building or site;
           4. Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent further collapse,
           and remove any hazard to the general public;

           5. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent
           life safety hazard; or

           6.   Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.

B. The director may, based on probable cause, enter property without a search warrant or
court order to accomplish the above-listed acts.


7.03.020 Procedures.

A. The director shall pursue only the minimum level of correction or abatement necessary to
eliminate the immediacy of a hazard. Costs incurred by the city during the emergency
abatement process shall be assessed and recovered against the responsible person.

B. The director may also pursue any other administrative or judicial remedy to abate any
remaining violations.

C. After an emergency abatement, the city shall, within ten days, serve a notice of itemized bill
for costs to the responsible person for the abatement action taken. Such notice shall include a
description of the imminent life safety hazard.

D. A responsible person has the right to an administrative enforcement hearing concerning
the itemized billing. A request for such hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed within ten
days from the date of service of the notice of itemized bill for costs. Failure to request an
administrative enforcement hearing as provided herein shall constitute a waiver to an
administrative enforcement hearing and a waiver to the right of appeal.


                                  Chapter 7.04
                            ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
                                             Sections:

        7.04.010   Purpose.
        7.04.020   Administrative citations.
        7.04.030   Contents of citation.
        7.04.040   Civil fees assessed.

7.04.010 Purpose.

The city council finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for violations of the Riverton
City Code and applicable state codes is by administrative citation. The procedures established
in this chapter shall be an alternative and in addition to those procedures set forth in
Chapter 7.03 of this title.


7.04.020 Administrative citations.

A. Upon discovering a violation of the Riverton City Code or applicable state codes that does
not require a notice of violation an enforcement official shall serve a warning notice, containing
the information required in the administrative citation, on the responsible person providing ten
days to correct the violation(s).

B. If the violation continues on the eleventh day after the warning notice, an enforcement
official shall serve an administrative citation on the responsible person.

C.   The administrative citation shall be served in the manner prescribed in Section 7.01.120.

D. The enforcement official shall attempt to obtain the signature of the responsible person on
the administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses or fails to sign the administrative
citation, such failure or refusal shall not affect the validity of the citation and subsequent
proceedings.


7.044030 Contents of citation.

Each administrative citation shall contain the following information:

A.   The date, location, and explanation of all violations;

B.   Code sections violated;

C.   The amount of the civil fee imposed for each violation;

D. An explanation of how the civil fee shall be paid, the time period in which the civil fee shall
be paid, and the consequences of failure to pay the civil fee;

E. Identify the right to and the procedures for requesting an administrative enforcement
hearing;

F. The signature of the enforcement official and, if possible, the signature of the responsible
person.


7.04.040 Civil fees assessed.

A.   Civil fees shall be due and payable immediately upon service of an administrative citation.
B. The civil fee for each violation listed on the administrative citation shall be as identified in
Table 1—Civil Fees in Chapter 7.03.

C.   Civil fees shall be double if paid after ten days but within twenty days of service.

D.   Civil fees shall be triple if paid after twenty days but within thirty days of service.

E. Payment of any civil fee shall not excuse a failure to correct a violation or any reoccurrence
of the violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the city.

F.   Civil fees shall be paid to the Riverton City treasurer.




                                        Chapter 7.05
                                       COSTS AND FEES
                                               Sections:

         7.05.010 Purpose.
         7.05.020 Assessment of costs.
         7.05.030 Failure to timely pay costs.
         7.056.040 Allocation of civil fees and administrative costs and fees.

7.05.010 Purpose.

A. The city council finds that costs incurred by enforcement officials and other city personnel
to correct violations should be recovered from the responsible person.

B. The city council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to
recover expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, reinspection fees, filing fees,
attorney fees, hearing examiner fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred by
the city for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs shall not preclude the
imposition of any judicial fees or fines for violations of the Riverton City Code or applicable
state codes.


7.05.020 Assessment of costs.

A. Whenever actual costs are incurred by the city to enforce the Riverton City Code and
applicable state codes, such costs may be assessed against the responsible person.

B.   The director shall serve the responsible person with a notice of itemized bill for costs.
C. The responsible person shall have a right to an administrative enforcement hearing. A
request for such hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed within ten days from the date of
service of the notice of itemized bill for costs. Failure to request an administrative enforcement
hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver to an administrative enforcement hearing and a
waiver of the right to appeal.


7.05.030 Failure to timely pay costs.

The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in an invoice shall
result in a late fee calculated at the rate of one and one-half percent per month on the unpaid
balances.


7.05.040 Allocation of civil fees and administrative costs and fees.

All fees and costs collected pursuant to this title shall be deposited in the Riverton City general
fund. All fees and costs deposited in the general fund may be allocated pursuant to the city’s
budget process and as authorized by applicable law.




                                 Chapter 7.06
                         ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
                            HEARING PROCEDURES
                                             Sections:

        7.06.010   Administrative enforcement hearings.
        7.06.020   Request for administrative enforcement hearing.
        7.06.030   Notification of administrative enforcement hearing.
        7.06.040   Appointment and qualifications of hearing examiner.
        7.06.050   Powers of hearing examiner.
        7.06.060   Procedures at administrative enforcement hearing.
        7.06.070   Failure to attend administrative enforcement hearing.
        7.06.080   Administrative enforcement order.
        7.06.090   Failure to comply with order.
        7.06.100   Appeal.

7.06.010 Administrative enforcement hearings.

It is the purpose and intent of the city council that any responsible person shall be afforded due
process of law during the enforcement process. Due process of law shall require adequate
notice, an opportunity to request and to fully participate in any hearing, and an adequate
explanation of the reasons justifying any resulting action. The following procedures are
intended to establish a forum to resolve and correct violations of the Riverton City Code and
applicable state codes fairly, quickly, and efficiently while providing due process.


7.06.020 Request for administrative enforcement hearing.

A. A responsible person served with one of the following documents or notices shall have the
right to request an administrative enforcement hearing. Such request shall be filed within ten
calendar days from the date of service of one of the following notices:

1.   Notice of violation;

2.   Notice of itemized bill for costs;

3.   Administrative citation; or

4.   Notice of emergency abatement.

B. The request for an administrative enforcement hearing shall be made in writing to the
Planning and Zoning Department Director. The request for an administrative enforcement
hearing must include the following information:

            1.   Name of the responsible party;

            2.   Address of the responsible party;

            3.   Telephone number of the responsible party;

            4.   Intent to be represented by legal counsel; and

            5. A comprehensive statement of the reasons for the appeal, including the specific
            provisions of law that are alleged to be violated by the action taken.

C. Failure to request an administrative enforcement hearing within ten calendar days from
the date of service of any of the notices in subsection (A) of this section shall constitute a waiver
of the right to an administrative enforcement hearing. The right to appeal said failure may be
waived by the city upon showing of good cause.

D. If a responsible person fails to request a hearing after being issued a notice of violation as
provided herein, the corrective action detailed on the notice of violation shall be considered the
administrative enforcement order pursuant to Section 7.04 of the Riverton Municipal Code.


7.06.030 Notification of administrative enforcement hearing.
A. Written notice of the date, time and place of the administrative enforcement hearing shall
be served to the responsible persons as soon as practicable prior to its date.

B.   The notice shall be served by any of the methods of service set forth in Section 7.01.120.


7.06.040 Appointment and qualifications of hearing examiner.

A. With the advice and consent of the city council, the mayor shall appoint hearing
examiner(s) to preside at administrative enforcement hearings.

B.   A hearing examiner:

1. Shall have no personal, financial, or other conflict of interest in the matter for which the
hearing is being held; and

2.   May be a city employee.


7.06.050 Powers of hearing examiner.

A. A hearing examiner shall have authority to conduct an administrative enforcement hearing
for violations of the Riverton City Code and applicable state codes.

B. A hearing examiner may, for good cause shown by one of the parties or if the hearing
examiner independently determines that due process has not been adequately afforded to
such party, continue a hearing.

C. At the request of any party to an administrative enforcement hearing, a hearing examiner
may sign subpoenas for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where the attendance of
the witness or the admission of evidence is deemed helpful or necessary by the hearing
examiner to decide issues at the hearing. All costs related to the subpoena, including witness
and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party requesting the subpoena.

D. A hearing examiner has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an administrative
enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance, ordering compliance by
issuing an administrative enforcement order, ensuring compliance of that order, which includes
authorizing the city to enter and abate a violation, modifying an administrative enforcement
order, or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.

E. A hearing examiner may require a responsible person to post a cash performance bond to
ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order, but only if agreed to by the
enforcement official handling the matter for the city.

F. A hearing examiner shall not make determinations as to the existence of nonconforming
rights. If a responsible person claims a nonconforming right as a defense, the hearing examiner
shall continue the administrative enforcement hearing and shall refer the matter to the
Riverton City board of adjustment for a determination as to the existence of the nonconforming
right. The board of adjustment’s decision shall be binding on the hearing examiner. The
responsible person shall bear the costs of the appeal to the board of adjustment.


7.06.060 Procedures at administrative enforcement hearing.

A. Administrative enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature. Formal rules of
evidence and discovery shall not apply; however, an informal exchange of discovery may be
required. Any such request shall be in writing. Failure to request discovery shall not be a basis
for a continuance. Complainant information shall not be disclosed or released unless the
complainant is a witness at the hearing. The procedure and format of the administrative
enforcement hearing shall follow duly adopted policies and procedures.

B. The city shall bear the burden of proof to establish the existence of a violation of the
Riverton City Code or applicable state codes.

C.   Such proof shall be established by a preponderance of the evidence.

D. Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present evidence in
support of his case. A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury may be accepted in
lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony may be given by telephone or other electronic means.

E. All administrative enforcement hearings shall be open to the public and shall be recorded
as determined by the city. At the discretion of the hearing examiner, administrative
enforcement hearings may be held at the location of the violation.

F. The responsible party/person shall have the right to be represented by an attorney. If an
attorney will be representing a responsible person at a hearing, notice of the attorney’s name,
address, and telephone number shall be given to the city at least two days prior to the hearing.
If such notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the city’s request, and all costs of
the continuance shall be assessed to the responsible person.

G.   The burden to prove any raised defenses shall be upon the party raising any such defense.


7.06.070 Failure to attend administrative enforcement hearing.

A responsible person who fails to appear at an administrative enforcement hearing shall be
deemed to have waived the right to such hearing, the adjudication of issues related to the
hearing, and the right to appeal; provided, that proper notice of the hearing has been given as
provided in Section 7.01.120.


7.06.080 Administrative enforcement order.
A. A responsible person and the city may enter into a stipulated agreement, which shall be
signed by both parties. Such agreement shall be entered as an administrative enforcement
order. Entry of such agreement shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative
enforcement hearing and the right to appeal.

B. After all evidence and testimony are presented, the hearing examiner shall issue a written
administrative enforcement order within thirty days that affirms or rejects the notice or
citation.

C. A hearing examiner may issue an administrative enforcement order that requires a
responsible person to cease and desist from violating the Riverton Municipal Code or applicable
state codes and to take any necessary corrective action.

D. A hearing examiner may order the city to enter the property and abate all violations,
including the removal of animals that are in violation of applicable code requirements.

E. A hearing examiner may revoke a kennel permit, an animal license, or the right to possess
animals as provided in the Riverton City Code.

F. As part of an administrative enforcement order, a hearing examiner may establish specific
deadlines for the payment of fees and costs, and condition the total or partial assessment of
civil fees on the responsible person’s ability to take necessary corrective actions by the specified
deadlines.

G. A hearing examiner may issue an administrative enforcement order imposing civil fees in
accordance with this Code . Such fees shall continue to accrue until the responsible person
complies with the hearing examiner’s decision and corrects the violation.

H. A hearing examiner may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be necessary or as
requested by the city to ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order.

I. A hearing examiner may order a responsible person to post a cash performance bond to
ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order, but only if agreed to by the
enforcement official handling the matter for the city.

J. An administrative enforcement order shall become final on the date of signing by the
hearing examiner.

K. A copy of the administrative enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any one of
the methods listed in Section 7.01.120. When required by this title, the director shall record the
administrative enforcement order with the Salt Lake County recorder’s office.

L. After a hearing examiner has issued an administrative enforcement order, the director shall
monitor the matter for compliance with the administrative enforcement order.
7.06.090 Failure to comply with order.

It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with the terms and deadlines
set forth in an administrative enforcement order. A violation of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor


7.06.100 Appeal.

A. Any responsible person adversely affected by an administrative enforcement order made
in the exercise of the provisions of this title may file a petition for review in the third district
court of Salt Lake County.

B. The petition shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty days after the administrative
enforcement order is final.

C. In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the administrative enforcement order was
arbitrary or capricious.

D.   The court shall:

1.   Presume that the administrative enforcement order is valid;

2.   Review the record to determine whether the order was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal; and

3.   Affirm the administrative enforcement order if it is supported by evidence.

E. If appealed, the record of the proceedings including minutes, findings, orders and, if
available, a true and correct recording of the proceeding shall be transmitted to the reviewing
court within thirty days of the notice of appeal.

F. If there is a record, court review shall be limited to the record of the proceeding. The court
may not accept or consider any evidence outside such record unless that evidence was offered
to the hearing examiner and the court determines that it was improperly excluded by the
hearing examiner. The court may call witnesses and take evidence if there is no record.

G. The filing of a petition does not stay execution of an administrative enforcement order. The
administrative enforcement order shall stand unless and until the district court stays the
administrative enforcement order pending review.
