                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 7, 2021
Subject:         Ordinance Text Amendment-Section 18.25.110, Farm Animals, Addressing
                 Standards for Roosters as Residential Chickens in the RR-22 Zone, Amendments
                 Proposed by Riverton City


On August 12, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this proposed text
amendment. At that meeting, the Planning Commission voted to recommend approval of the
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission
recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 21-23, amending Section 18.25.110, regulating roosters as
allowed residential chickens, as shown on the attached Exhibit “A”.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Zoning Text Change proposed by Riverton City. This amendment clarifies
allowance for residential chickens in the RR-22 zone. The RR-22 zone carries farm animal rights, including
chickens. In zones without farm animal rights, a limited number of chickens are allowed, but no roosters. In
the RR-22 zone, a minimum of .5 acres is required to qualify for farm animal rights. The purpose of this
amendment is to clarify for lots below that threshold in the RR-22 zone, which are not allowed farm animal
rights but may have residential chickens, are allowed to have a rooster. The typical impacts of a rooster in
a residential zone will be mitigated by the fact that roosters are allowed elsewhere in the RR-22 zone.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of the proposed amendment. The proposed language
is attached below.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
   1. Draft text amendment to Section 18.25.110




Report by: TJP
9/1/2021
18.25.110 Farm animals.
(1) Minimum Requirements. The minimum lot size to keep and own farm animals shall be one-half
acre (21,780 square feet). Residential lots zoned R-1 and R-2, that are not at least one-half acre, are
excluded from owning or keeping farm animals. Notwithstanding the foregoing, lots zoned RR-22
which are smaller than one half acre but are large enough to be eligible for a certificate of occupancy
may keep up to six chickens and one rooster. This exception shall not be construed to allow ducks,
geese, or other bird or fowl.

(2) Keeping of Farm Animals. No agricultural animals shall be kept within 40 feet of any residential
dwelling. No structure for the keeping of agricultural animals or fowl shall be constructed or
maintained within 40 feet of a residential dwelling.

(3) Standards for Farm Animal Use.

      (a) Large animals may be kept at a ratio of two animals for each one-half acre of lot size; or
      (b) Medium animals may be kept at a ratio of five animals for each one-half acre of lot size; or
      (c) Small animals may be kept at a ratio of 20 animals for each one-half acre of lot size.
      (d) Partially enclosed (and roofed) structures may be provided and maintained for all animals.
      Such structures shall be sited at the rear of the main dwelling and at least 40 feet from any
      dwelling unit, and comply with all other setback and yard regulations of the zone district and
      shall also comply with requirements outlined by the Salt Lake Valley health department.
      (e) All types of pigs are strictly prohibited within the Riverton City limits.

(4) Large Farm Animals. Large farm animals shall include, but are not limited to, the following:

      (a) Cow.
      (b) Horse (mule-ass, pony or similar species not listed).
      (c) Ostrich (or other similar size, closely related species).
      (d) Llama (or other similar species not listed).
      (e) Other animals of similar size, as determined by the planning department.

(5) Medium Farm Animals. Medium farm animals shall include, but are not limited to, the following:

      (a) Sheep.
      (b) Emu.
      (c) Goat.
      (d) Turkey.
      (e) Goose.
      (f) Peacock.
      (g) Other animals of similar size, as determined by the planning department.

(6) Small Farm Animals. Small farm animals shall include but are not limited to the following:

      (a) Chicken.
      (b) Rabbit.
      (c) Duck.
      (d) Quail.
      (e) Pheasant.
      (f) Other animals of similar size, as determined by the planning department.
