From:           Ashlee Hoppes
To:             Planning
Subject:        Benson whitney property reserve
Date:           Saturday, January 30, 2021 12:25:07 PM


We recieved notification that a plan is being proposed for this section of Riverton. We live a
street away and this will directly affect us and our small street. Although we don't know what
the plan is yet, I would like to take a minute to express concerns before the meeting even takes
place.

1. We were told that 250 feet would be left to develop homes with similar properties as our
own. We DO NOT want this to change.

2. Sunday drive is a small, quiet, narrow street. Right now it has no through access. We DO
NOT want this street to be opened up for thru traffic. Given that the roads it leads to are
Dutchman, which is narrow and the north end of Sunday drive which is curvy and narrow it
would not be safe in any way.

3. We DO NOT want a bunch more ton homes and apartments. The reason we moved to
Riverton was because the city seemed to be better than Herriman about cramming people into
these locations. Our neighborhood has shown up time and time again to fight these conditions.
OUR VOICES ARE NOT BEING HEARD! The city council has sided with the developer
every time no matter how many complaints, emails, meetings, etc.

4. Parkside was just developed to accommodate seniors ( 3 story housing ), multi families, and
starter homes. There is diversity. Please consider that our city also needs homes for growing
families with backyards.

Although I realize the city needs to male money on these properties, the end goal should be
building a nice community that people want to move to. We are tired of losing amazing
neighbors because of these developments being built around us.

Lastly, we realize covid is still a real thing, but not allowing us to attend these meetings in
person is unfair. We continue to be told our emails are being read, but they don't seem to be
getting heard. We want people to know how we feel.

Thank you,
Ashlee Urry
From:            Julie Frandsen
To:              Planning
Subject:         SLR CPA-1
Date:            Tuesday, February 2, 2021 11:12:37 AM



Riverton City,

        Thank you for your time in hearing the opinions of the neighbors that will be greatly
impacted by the SLR CPA1 development at 4406 W. 13200 S.
        While I understand that development is important and necessary, I strongly feel that
there should be a flow to how our city is developed. As I look at the map that was sent on
the flyer, I am overwhelmed that our nice, large lots that we all paid high prices for and
continue to pay high taxes for, will be smothered by high density homes.  

       Our neighborhood has lost many battles over the development to the east of us.
With the canal as a separation for us I am not as emotionally involved as I am with the
continuation of Sunday Drive. There will be no buffer, no distancing and I strongly feel there
should be a gradual flow into any high density or small lot homes.  

          As we have previously discussed, Sunday Drive has a ⅓ acre minimum to keep
consistency of lot sizes. If Sunday Drive were to go through, I would expect that this rule
be kept in place! If this rule were kept in place and the homes on Sunday Drive had at least
⅓ acre lots, I would be in support of the road going through. I don’t necessarily want it but I
feel it is a good compromise. If the proposed development of 9 homes per acre is passed I
would be extremely against the road going through. On the northern end of Sunday Drive
where the storage units are, there is a sharp “S” curve that is not only dangerous with
increased traffic, but the road itself actually crumbles away from all the people driving on
the edge of the black top trying to avoid hitting other drivers coming the other direction.
There is not a stop light where Sunday Drive meets 12600 S. and we do not need more
stop lights! The traffic should be funneled to the main roads that already have stop lights.

       There are currently 3 large lots on Sunday Drive that are for sale with the intention
of being developed. I hope you will consider the lot sizes as all of these acres get
developed. I understand development is going to happen. I am not against that. I am not
against homes being built, but I feel we can work together to make more people than just
the developer happy. Why are we catering to the person that will come out of this with the
biggest pocket. Please listen to the neighbors that love this city and want to stay here for a
very long time. Don’t push out good homeowners and good members of this city just to
appease the developers.

Thank you for your time and consideration,

Julie Frandsen
12921 S. Sunday Dr.
Riverton, UT
﻿
Claude,

My name is Mindy Kehl and I live on Dutchman Lane in Riverton. I
am contacting you about the planning for Sunday drive? It looks like
they are in the process of trying to change the planning of it. It is
supposed to be a through street the same way 4570 West is and I
would really like to see the planning stay like this. They have made
so manyhrough changes in our little corner of Riverton in the 11
years of us living here, and honestly I don’t think they should back
down on making that a through street. I have heard the builder of the
high density stuff being built at the end of Sunday drive and some of
the fieldstone home owners all want to change it to dead end on
Sunday drive, but I think it should stay as a through street cause it
will stop the cars from funneling down our little Dutchman Lane to
get to the Mountain View village. When they changed the zoning and
planned these major changes out in our area about 5-6 years ago they
did it with the plan to have Sunday drive and 4570 as through streets
and I think they need to stick to that. What are your thoughts on this?
I just think with all the developments around this area they need to
stick to having Sunday drive go all the way through.

Please let me know if you have any questions or thoughts on this.
 Thanks for your time! I appreciated watching my husband work with
you guys on the Schroff development and everyone coming to an
agreement that was workable for all parties involved and I hope we
can do the same here!

Mindy Kehl
8013692848

Sent from my iPhone
From:           Ashlee Hoppes
To:             Planning
Subject:        Thank you
Date:           Saturday, February 13, 2021 2:32:06 PM


I wanted to say thank you for allowing us to be part of the meeting discussing our
neighborhood near Mountain View Village. We are grateful that our comments were heard
and we could get more clarification. While we don't agree with everything being done in the
area, we do feel that you and the developer are trying to protect our neighborhood.

With that being said I just wanted to reiterate our desires to keep Sunday Drive closed. I think
it is in the best interest of our community and the one being built if we have less traffic going
through that area. The more cars, the more crime, people, accidents, etc.

Thank you again for hearing our concerns.

Ashlee Urry
4366 Aspen Cottage Lane, Riverton, UT 84096
From:           Jamie Larsen
To:             Jason Lethbridge
Subject:        FW: Sunday Drive Closure
Date:           Wednesday, February 17, 2021 3:39:17 PM


What should I do with this comment? I’m not sure who to forward it to.

Thanks,
Jamie

From: Nicole Mancuso [mailto:nicolemancuso89@gmail.com]
Sent: Tuesday, February 16, 2021 6:44 PM
To: Jamie Larsen
Subject: Sunday Drive Closure

Dear City Recorder,

I was told I could send my comments and concerns about making Sunday Drive a through
street to you.

My husband and are are disappointed about the high-density housing to be built right behind
us. According to the plan submitted by the developer we will have two small homes behind us
just for the width of our property. That's not to mention the many town homes and apartments
to be stuffed in that area.

We have a very nice and quiet neighborhood. And with the new shopping center and Costco it
seems like there will be plenty of options for roads. We would NOT like to see the Western
Springs neighborhood connected to the high density housing by Sunday Drive. We believe not
doing so would help give us more privacy and safety.

Thank you for your time and consideration in regards to this matter.

Sincerely,

Nicole Mancuso
From:            Jamie Larsen
To:              Jason Lethbridge
Subject:         FW: Sunday drive closure
Date:            Monday, February 22, 2021 9:05:11 AM


FYI

From: Ashlee Hoppes [mailto:ashleehoppes@gmail.com]
Sent: Sunday, February 21, 2021 8:47 AM
To: Jamie Larsen
Subject: Sunday drive closure

I was told that there will not be a planning meeting open to the public about Sunday Drive. I
would like to still express my concerns with this road.

Sunday drive is a narrow and twisted road on the far side connecting it to 12600 s. We have
seen accidents occur there especially by people not driving it on a regular basis. It doesn't
seem smart to have more people use it. If Sunday Drive is opened up into another community
then our small neighborhood is opened up to all the high density housing that has now been
approved around us. The community we have developed in our neighborhood is one where
kids ride their bikes, play catch in the street, and run to their friend's house. We would hate for
Aspen Cottage and Cottage Oak to now become a highway to the two surrounding
neighborhoods.

We have seen the amount of crime rise in just our Western Springs area due to more houses
being built I truly believe that our Fieldstone neighborhood has been lucky to not see as much
because there are less ways in anc out. If Sunday Drive is opened you are providing much
quicker access to our homes and children.

Please take this into consideration as you decide on Sunday Drive. We would love for our
street to stay CLOSED.

Thank you,
Ashlee Urry
4366 West Aspen Cottage Lane
