                            MEMORANDUM
To:            Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:          Planning Department
Date:          April 7, 2026
Subject:       Ordinance 26-03, “Quinn Rezone,” General Plan Amendment and Rezone
               of approximately 0.97-acre located at 1980 West 13400 South. Changing the
               General Plan Designation to Medium Density Residential and the zoning to R-
               4, a single-family residential zone with up to 4 dwelling units per acre.
               Applicant-Dallis Quinn.


On February 12, 2026 the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this application.
Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted to
recommend denial of the application, with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council DENY Ordinance 26-03, “Quinn Rezone,” proposed amendment to
the General Plan designation and rezone of the property, thus keeping the current General
Plan Designations and current Zoning of R-3 and R-4.

The City Council heard this item in their March 3 meeting. Minutes from that meeting are
included below. The City Council, after discussing alternatives for the property, voted to
table the application. Based on that discussion, staff has prepared the following possible
motion, which rezones the property area adjacent to 13400 South R-4 and leaves the rear
portion R-3.

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 26-03, “Quinn Rezone,” on approximately .97
acres located at 1980 West 13400 South changing the General Plan Designation to Medium
Density Residential (4 du/acre) and rezoning a portion of the subject property to R-4 (single-
family residential, 4 du/acre), by continuing the north border of the existing R-4 area east to
the eastern most property line, with final exhibit verified by Staff

Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant, Dallis Quinn for a
single parcel at 1980 West 13400 South. The subject parcel is 0.97-acres with an existing
home.

The current zoning for the property is both R-3 (3 du/acre, 14,000 sf-lots), and R-4 (4 du/acre,
10,000 sf lots). This request would zone the entire parcel R-4.

The current General Plan for the property is Estate Density Residential which corresponds with
lot sizes greater than 21,780-sf (half-acre). The applicant is requesting the General Plan
Designation be changed to Medium Density Residential (min 10,000-sf lots) which is consistent
with R-4 zoning.

The General Plan designation and zoning in this area are sometimes at odds. For example, to
the west and north are newer homes on lots Zoned R-3 but the General Plan designation for these
lots is Estate Density Residential. On the other hand, a few parcels to the east are a few parcels
zoned RR-22 but they have the General Plan designation of Medium Density Residential.
Overall, the area has a mix of zoning with R-4, R-3 and RR-22. All of the properties touching on
the subject property are either R-3 or R-4 so the requested rezone to R-4 does not create an
incompatible use.




Public Notices and Response
Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s
webpage.

The Planning Commission following a public hearing on this application voted to recommend
denial. Minutes from that meeting are included below.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Rezone Application.
       2.   Property areas
       3.   Area Zoning Map.
       4.   Area General Plan Map.
rivertonutah.gov
                                                        Redwood Road
                           13330 South   Subject
                                         Property




             13400 South
 2200 West




                                                    N

rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
                   Area Zoning Map




rivertonutah.gov
                   Area General Plan




rivertonutah.gov
                   Requested Zoning




rivertonutah.gov
 Received
   Public
Comment
Comment 1 – Quinn Rezone – Peterson


Shelly and Monte Peterson left a phone message expressing their disapproval of the proposed
Quinn rezone from R-3 to R-4.
Comment 2 – Quinn Rezone- Lloyd



I received a notice of a property near me wanting to rezone from 3 houses per acre (LESS THAN AN
ACRE) to 4. I would like to inform you of my objection to the rezone. I know the access to this property
is limited and I also have concerns of increased traffic - especially given the tabled measure earlier this
year of a timberline subdivision just off redwood road near me. In addition, I understand the applicant
for the rezone Dallis Quinn does not reside on the property. The impact of 2 additional homes will be
more than enough for the neighborhood. I'm sure the owner would like to maximize his profit and I
understand that, but I would like be heard as a neighbor who would like to oppose the rezone and
minimize the impact on my property and neighborhood.




Thank you.,

Cindy Lloyd
Comment 2 – Quinn Rezone - Jessen


I am writing concerning the proposal to allow Dallis Quinn to subdivide the
property located at 1980 West 13400 South.


I support his efforts to subdivide. I fell it is important to utilize the land that exists
in Riverton to encourage growth.


Amy Jessen
2108 West Marblewood DR
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
February 12, 2026


Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Marzo, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that
no written or telephone comments were received. The adjacent property owners also did
not comment on the previous application.

Commissioner Beck moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-25-4012, “Baird Rezone,” amending the General
Plan Designation to High Density Residential and Rezoning the subject properties
to RM-8-SD for the approximately 0.71-acres located at 1758 and 1742 West 11800
South with the following Specific Development (SD) Designations:

       1.     The development shall be limited to ‘townhomes’ only.

Commissioner Marzo seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       E.     "QUINN REZONE, GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT," PLZ-25-4010, AN
              APPLICATION TO REZONE APPROXIMATELY .97-ACRES LOCATED
              AT 1980 WEST 13400 SOUTH FROM R-3 (SINGLE-FAMILY
              RESIDENTIAL   14,000-SF  LOTS)   TO   R-4 (SINGLE-FAMILY
              RESIDENTIAL 10,000-SF LOTS), AND TO AMEND THE GENERAL
              PLAN FROM ESTATE-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL TO MEDIUM-DENSITY
              RESIDENTIAL. APPLICANT - DALLIS QUINN

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and indicated that the subject property is in
southern Riverton on 13400 South near 2200 West. Aerial, Zoning, and General Plan
maps were reviewed. Adjacent properties are zoned RR-22, R-3 and R-4, and
approximately 25% of the subject property is already zoned R-4. The applicant’s request
was to change the General Plan designation to Medium-Density Residential and rezone
the entire property to R-4. R-3 and R-4 are compatible zones that only require vinyl
fencing separating the zones.

Commissioner Cannon asked if a conceptual plan had been submitted. Mr. Prestwich
stated that the property owner had not provided one. The R-3 Zone would require
irregular property lines, and R-4 would allow more uniform lots with a private lane down
the middle or to the side. To fit four lots on the property, the road would need to be
included in the square footage of one or more lots.

The applicant, Dallis Quinn reported that he purchased the property in 2020 with the
intention of renovating it. He and his parents live in the existing house, and he would like
to rezone and subdivide the lot so his parents can stay in the home and he can build on
the rear portion of the lot. In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, he
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     9
February 12, 2026


stated that his intention is to build a private lane and one home, but he wants to leave his
options open.

Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing.

Greg Knight stated that he lives adjacent to the subject property. When the frontage lots
on 13400 South were developed, they were zoned R-3. When the road was widened, the
frontage of two lots was purchased and their square footage reduced to 0.25 acres.
Neighbors were not notified of that change. He was concerned that building on the front
portion of the subject property could cause issues with traffic, parking, and density.

Cindy Lloyd stated that she lives south of the subject property and is concerned about
traffic, driveway locations, and parking. She is a cyclist, and her eastern neighbor parks
in a way that blocks the bike lane. The more people that live on the subject property, the
more cars there will be. There could be up to four cars per home. She already has trouble
getting out of her driveway. She saw no reason to change the zone and asked that the
application be denied.

Craig Bird stated that he lives in the notification zone and is concerned that decreasing
the setbacks will cause sightline issues when adjacent property owners like Mr. Knight
back out of their driveways. If residents park in the bike lane, that can be very dangerous
as it will force cyclists to use the travel lane. He believes that allowing so many homes
will create parking problems, which will affect garbage pickup and snow removal. The
area was already rezoned from 0.50-acre to 0.33-acre lots, and he does not want the lot
size to decrease further.

Jeff Quinn stated that he lives on the subject property. He did not agree with the previous
comments. 13400 South is a busy road, and whether there are two or three homes on
the property will not affect traffic. The properties are spaced far enough apart that visibility
will not be affected. Neighbors have had to back out of their driveways for many years
and how they do so will not change. He did not believe the concerns expressed by his
neighbors were valid barriers to the request.

Randy Christensen stated that he lives adjacent to the subject property. It is hard to get
out of his driveway, especially in the morning, or to access Redwood Road. He moved
into his home 50 years ago when all the lots were 0.50 acres. He moved to Riverton for
the country, not for townhouses, and he was against rezoning the property.

Tyler Draney stated that he lives near the subject property, and the Quinns are great
neighbors. However, he is concerned about allowing a house on the frontage or at the
rear near his fence. He can see both sides of the issue.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  10
February 12, 2026


In response to a question raised by Commissioner Marzo, Mr. Prestwich reported that the
property is 0.97 acres and currently zoned R-3 and R-4. The parcel’s geography would
dictate exactly how many homes could actually be built on the property, but the current
zoning would allow up to three lots and the R-4 Zone would allow for up to four lots. The
location of the existing home may also limit development. R-3 and R-4 have identical
setback requirements, but R-4 has a 10,000-square-foot minimum lot size and smaller
frontage requirement.

Commissioner Cannon stated that he is typically in favor of private lanes but was
struggling with this application due to the number of houses that could be built on the
property. He believes a fully improved street and sidewalk should be required for four
houses, and this would be too many houses on such a small lot. Vice-Chair Beck agreed.

Commissioner Matheson stated that the Planning Commission has considered many
requests that do not fit with the area, but in this situation rezoning the property would only
create the possibility of having one more home. He is a cyclist and empathizes with Ms.
Lloyd. However, if the property were rezoned and a private lane was built, cars from the
two additional homes would exit the private lane facing forward, not backing out. He does
not believe approval would have a significant negative impact on residents of the area.
He is also biased by the fact that his own children cannot find a place to live. The City
needs more housing that ideally does not disrupt the neighborhood. Of the applications
the Commission had reviewed recently, he believes this request would cause the least
disruption. He was in favor of recommending approval. The applicant could then
determine how many houses will fit on the property.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL
of Application PLZ-25-4010, “Quinn Rezone,” for changing the General Plan
Designation and Rezoning thus keeping the current General Plan Designations and
current Zoning (RR-22). Commissioner Marzo seconded the motion. Vote on
Motion: Commissioner Beck – Aye, Commissioner Cannon – Aye, Commissioner
Keele – Aye, Commissioner Marzo – Aye, Commissioner Matheson – Nay. The
motion passed 4-to-1.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

       A.     "MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 29," PLZ-25-8020, AN APPLICATION FOR
              A FINAL/DETAIL PLAN FOR 33 RESIDENTIAL UNITS ON
              APPROXIMATELY 7.04-ACRES LOCATED NEAR 13670 SOUTH 4395
              WEST. APPLICANT - BRANDON PARR, EDGE HOMES.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and indicated that the subject property is in the
southwest portion of Riverton in the Suburban Land Reserve Special Development
District (“SLR SDD”), which was adopted in 2015. Multiple projects have been completed
under the associated Development Agreement, and Edge Homes has master site plans
in process for the remaining acreage.
CC Minutes
     Page | 5 Minutes – City Council Meeting
     March 3, 2026



 1   Public Hearing(s)/Action Items
 2
 3            Ordinance No. 26-04 – “Priority Builders Rezone,” General Plan Amendment and
 4            Rezone of Approximately 0.71-acres located at 1758 and 1742 West 11800 South.
 5            Changing the General Plan Designation to High Density Residential and the zoning
 6            to RM-8-“SD, a multi-family residential zone up to 8 dwelling units per acre
 7
 8   Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director, explained the rezone was proposed for two
 9   lots at the northwest corner of 11800 South and Redwood Road. The request is for RM-8 SD
10   zoning, matching the surrounding RM-8 multifamily development, with the SD designation limiting
11   it to townhomes only. The property is part of a larger area controlled by Priority Builders, who plan
12   to assemble the remaining lots along 11800 South to complete the development. The General
13   Plan would be updated to medium-high density residential for these lots, and the Planning
14   Commission has recommended approval.
15
16   Scott Yermish, Applicant, explained that he has spent over a year improving and unifying the
17   area, with the current rezone focused on the Baird property to move the overall development
18   forward. He noted a nearby UDOT-owned parcel that may be acquired later to prevent
19   commercial use. The proposed development preserves the character of the existing neighborhood
20   while offering updated designs and slightly larger homes (around 2,220 sq. ft.).
21
22   Mayor Buroker called for public comments; there being none, she closed the public hearing.
23
24   Councilmember Pierucci MOVED to adopt Ordinance No. 26-04, “the “Priority Builders
25   Rezone,” amending the General Plan Designation to High Density Residential and rezoning
26   the subject properties to RM-8-SD for the approximately 0.71-acres located at 1758 and 1742
27   West 11800 South, with the following Specific Development (SD) Designations: 1. The
28   development shall be limited to “townhomes” only. Councilmember Haymond SECONDED the
29   motion. Mayor Buroker called for a vote; the vote was as follows: Haymond-Yes, Johnson-Yes,
30   Pierucci-Yes, and Smith-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
31
32
33            Ordinance No. 26-03 – “Quinn Rezone,” General Plan Amendment and Rezone of
34            approximately 0.97-acres located at 1980 West 13400 South. Changing the General
35            Plan Designation to Medium Density Residential and the zoning to R-4, a single-
36            family residential zone with up to 4 dwelling units per acre.
37
38   Mr. Lethbridge explained that the proposed rezone concerns the property at 1980 West, 13400
39   South, currently under 1 acre and containing an existing home and outbuildings. The parcel is
40   uniquely split between R3 and R4 zoning, a remnant of prior actions when multiple lots were
41   combined, resulting in a mix that doesn’t practically allow additional subdivision. The surrounding
42   area includes a variety of zoning types, including quarter-acre lots created prior to City
43   regulations. The applicant requests R4 zoning across the entire parcel to align with the southern
44   portion and provide consistency along the block. However, the Planning Commission reviewed the
45   request and recommended denial, noting the unique circumstances and limited practical effect of
46   the existing R4 portion. Options presented to the Council include extending R4 for consistency or
47   leaving the rear as R3, with staff providing sample motion language for either approach.
48
49   Jeff Quinn, Applicant, explained that the intent was to subdivide the property into quarter-acre lots,
50   retain the existing home on the front portion, and allow their son, Dallas, to build on the rear lot
51   accessed via a private lane. He clarified that only one additional home was planned, that one
     Page | 6 Minutes – City Council Meeting
     March 3, 2026



 1   neighbor had expressed interest in purchasing part of the rear lot, and that the request primarily
 2   affected his family.
 3
 4   Mayor Buroker opened the public hearing and called for comments;
 5
 6   The Council received a comment electronically from Tyler Draney in opposition to this rezone. His
 7   comment is included in the packet.
 8
 9   The Council received an email from Monte Peterson in opposition to this rezone. His email is
10   included in the packet.
11
12   Greg Knight addressed the Council to clarify that his concern at the prior hearing had been
13   regarding density and setbacks, not parking. He noted that this was the first time seeing a
14   conceptual plan for the property and expressed concern that R4 zoning could allow additional
15   homes closer to the sidewalk, potentially creating setback issues. He also stated he had not
16   received any mailed notice of the hearing.
17
18   Craig Bird expressed opposition to the proposed private lane development. He raised concerns
19   about potential overdevelopment, comparing it to other areas where private lanes led to cars
20   parking on streets and traffic congestion. He emphasized that a private lane would place utility and
21   maintenance responsibilities on future residents and suggested that if additional homes were built,
22   a standard 24-foot street with curb, gutter, and a cul-de-sac should be required.
23
24   Randy Christensen expressed opposition to the proposed rezone and private lane. He clarified that
25   he did not park on sidewalks and described the area’s existing traffic congestion, particularly during
26   morning and afternoon peak hours, which affects his daily routines. He noted that many lots in the
27   area were originally half-acre, reduced over time due to rezoning and road widening, and
28   referenced prior Planning Commission minutes recommending no additional private lanes,
29   emphasizing that any new development should include a standard street rather than a private lane.
30
31   Cindy Lloyd spoke regarding concerns about the proposed private lane, noting that her driveway is
32   just south of the planned access and is already difficult to exit, especially when turning west. She
33   emphasized safety concerns as a cyclist, explaining that additional private lanes increase traffic
34   near the bike lane, making it harder to see and safely access.
35
36   Mayor Buroker called for additional public comments; there being none, she closed the public
37   hearing.
38
39   Mr. Lethbridge addressed a question regarding noticing, clarifying that all notices are generated
40   through the Salt Lake County recorder’s office system. He explained that the property in question
41   is listed as a protected, private lot in the County records, which prevents an address from being
42   produced for mailing. He emphasized that this designation is beyond the City’s control, and while
43   the City has a legal obligation to provide notice, in this situation the County-generated mailing list
44   could not deliver a notice to that property.
45
46   Councilmember Smith expressed a preference for consistency with the surrounding R3 lots and
47   suggested a possible compromise: rezoning the front portion to R4 while keeping the back portion
48   as R3, which would limit development to no more than two or three homes on the 0.97-acre
49   parcel.
50
51   Councilmember Pierucci commented on the complexity of the zoning situation in the
     Page | 7 Minutes – City Council Meeting
     March 3, 2026



 1   neighborhood, noting that the current general plan designates estate density with half-acre lots,
 2   which does not align with the existing quarter-acre lots in the area. He acknowledged the
 3   challenges presented by metes-and-bounds parcels and the inability to subdivide lots to meet
 4   third-acre minimum width requirements. He stated that the requested R4 zoning was generally
 5   consistent with adjacent properties to the east, west, and across the street, and that denying the
 6   request could send a confusing signal about future development.
 7
 8   Councilmember Haymond discussed the challenges of the proposed rezoning and acknowledged
 9   the difficulty of balancing neighborhood concerns with development goals. He clarified that the
10   western quarter-acre portion already zoned R4 would require any house to face the road due to
11   setback requirements, making it practically impossible for a home to face east or west. He stated
12   that rezoning to R4 would essentially extend the existing quarter-acre pattern along the street,
13   completing the neighborhood layout, and indicated that additional traffic from one or two homes
14   would likely have minimal impact on 13400 South, which already carries several thousand
15   vehicles daily.
16
17   Councilmember Johnson expressed support for providing housing opportunities for young
18   families. He noted that the proposed quarter-acre lots were consistent with adjacent properties
19   and referenced the Council’s prior unanimous support for an R8 rezone for townhomes.
20
21   Councilmember Pierucci MOVED to adopt Ordinance No. 26-03, “Quinn Rezone,” on
22   approximately 0.97 acres located at 1980 West 13400 South changing the General Plan
23   Designation to Medium Density Residential (4du/acre) and rezoning the subject properties to
24   R-4 (single-family residential, 4 du/acre). Councilmember Johnson SECONDED the motion.
25   Mayor Buroker called for a vote; the vote was as follows: Haymond-No, Johnson-Yes, Pierucci-
26   Yes, and Smith-No. The vote was 2 to 2 and Mayor Buroker was asked to break the tie. She voted
27   no and the motion failed.
28
29   Councilmember Smith MOVED to adopt Ordinance No. 26-03, “Quinn Rezone,” on
30   approximately 0.97 acres located at 1980 West 13400 South changing the General Plan
31   Designation to Medium Density Residential (4du/acre) and a potion of the subject property to
32   R-4 (single-family residential, 4 du/acre), by continuing the north border of the existing R-4
33   east to the eastern most property line, with final exhibit verified by Staff. This motion did not
34   receive a second and the motion failed.
35
36   Councilmember Pierucci MOVED to TABLE Ordinance No. 26-03, “Quinn Rezone” to the April
37   7 City Council Meeting. Councilmember Johnson SECONDED the motion. Mayor Buroker called
38   for a vote; the vote was as follows: Haymond-Yes, Johnson-Yes, Pierucci-Yes, and Smith-Yes. The
39   motion passed unanimously.
40
41
42   Discussion/Action Items
43
44            Resolution No. 26-11 – Authorizing the Mayor to Execute the Second Amendment to
45            the Mountain View Place at Riverton Development Agreement
46
47   Mr. Lethbridge introduced a proposed amendment to the Mountain View Village development
48   agreement. He explained that the original agreement, adopted in 2016, was based on conceptual
49   drawings and included a northeastern area set aside for residential development, initially limited to
50   250 units. Subsequent amendments, made with the developer CenterCal’s review and consent,
51   increased the limit to 288 units. The current request, from Salt Development, sought a final
