                             MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:           Planning Department
Date:           March 21, 2023
Subject:        Ordinance 23-07 -Residential Chicken Ordinance, Adopting Amendments to the
                Residential Chicken Ordinance. Amendments Proposed by - Riverton City


On February 23, 2023, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item.
Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission recommended
approval, with specific conditions that are included in this staff report. Staff is proposing
that, following discussion and public comment, this item be continued to April 4, to allow
staff to prepare ordinance language consistent with the Council’s preference.

I move the City Council continue Ordinance 23-07 to the April 4, 2023 City Council meeting, and
direct staff to prepare ordinance language addressing residential chickens on lots smaller than
10,000 square feet as follows:
    1.

Background

Riverton City ordinance currently allows up to 6 residential chickens to be kept on residential
property of 10,000-sf or larger. 10,000 square feet is ¼ acre. Based on recent requests by
residents and inquiries by the City Council, Staff has reviewed various approaches to allowing
chickens on lots below 10,000 square feet. One method was a ‘sliding scale”, used in Herriman
and other communities. The sliding scale allows for keeping a progressively smaller number of
residential chickens on lots of different sizes. The zoning results in residents of a 5,000-7,999 sf
lot being allowed to keep four (4) chickens, and residents of an 8,000-10,000 sf lot are allowed
to keep six (6). The scale reads as follows:




Staff presented this information to the Planning Commission for review at their February 23
meeting, with the following general questions:


Report by: LH
3/15/2023
    1. Whether Riverton City should allow residential chickens to be kept on lots smaller than
       10,000-sf, and if so,
    2. How many chickens should be allowed on lots between 5,000-7,999 sf ?
    3. How many chickens should be allowed on lots between 8,000- 10,000 sf?

The Planning Commission, following a detailed discussion, forwarded to the City Council a
recommendation that up to 6 chickens be allowed on lots small than 10,000 square feet only if
chickens can be kept a minimum of 25 feet from a dwelling, and that three square feet of
enclosure be required for each chicken. This is a different approach than the sliding scale
model, and while simpler if form, includes enforcement challenges in measuring and monitoring
both the required distance and enclosure square footage.

Staff is proposing that, following any public comment, the City Council continue this item to the
April 4th meeting, with direction to staff as to the specific amendments desired. Staff will then
prepare the appropriate ordinance language for approval at the April 4th meeting.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1. Minutes from the Planning Commission hearing.




Report by: LH
3/15/2023
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 2
February 23, 2023

being rezoned out of their homes. Mr. Prestwich commented that in this case, the property
owner is the one requesting the zone change. After UDOT widened 13400 South then the
road came much closer to the front of the homes in the area and most are not owner-
occupied anymore.

Commissioner Cannon considered this to be a great example of a property owner coming
in and making a rezone request. There was also an example of others holding out who do
not want to rezone.

The applicant, Damien Butterfield, stated that the property was owned by his grandfather.
He grew up in the house on the property and his uncle raised his family in the house on the
property that has not been rezoned. Jay Roberts is the current owner of the nearby
residentially-zoned property and Mr. Butterfield asked him specifically if he would want to
rezone his property while he is also going through the process. His uncle stated that he did
not want to pay the higher tax rate for commercially-zoned property. Mr. Butterfield stated
that it is not as enjoyable to live there now due to increased traffic. He hoped to put an auto
glass shop on the property.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-23-4001 to rezone 0.91 acres located at 4141 West
13400 South and change the zoning to C-R (Regional Commercial). Commissioner
Matheson seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

       B.     ORDINANCE AMENDMENT, PLZ-23-5002, AMENDING THE NUMBER OF
              CHICKENS ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES. APPLICANT -
              RIVERTON CITY.

Lisa Halversen, planner, presented the Staff Report and stated that the current ordinance
allows up to six residential chickens to be kept on lots that are 10,000 square feet or larger.
There is nothing in the Code addressing those who wish to keep chickens on small lots.
Herriman City uses a sliding scale for keeping residential chickens on lots of varying sizes.
Their zoning allows residents with 5,000 to 8,000 square-foot lots to keep up to four chickens
and up to six on 8,000 to 10,000 square-foot lots. Herriman does not allow roosters.
Riverton City allows one. Ms. Halversen reported that Herriman allows 10 chickens on a
10,000-square-foot lot while Riverton allows only six. It was noted that on a 10,000-square-
foot lot, the chicken coop must be 40 feet from any residence and adhere to all setback
requirements. Lots that are smaller than 10,000 square feet will likely not be able to comply
and place a chicken coop 40 feet from a dwelling. Herriman City's Code requires chicken
coops to be only 25 feet from the neighbor.

Ms. Halversen stated that the Commission should consider the following:
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
February 23, 2023

   •   Should the City allow residential chickens to be kept on lots smaller than 10,000
       square feet and if so:
          o How many chickens should be allowed on lots that are 5,000 to 7,999 square
             feet in size?
          o How many chickens should be allowed on lots that are 8,000 to 10,000 square
             feet in size?
          o The distance that a chicken coop must be located from the owner's home and
             the neighbor's home.

Ms. Halversen pointed out that smaller lots are generally part of a development that has a
Homeowners Association (“HOA”). The HOA rules take precedence over a City ordinance
that allows chickens.

Commissioner Breinholt commented that he has seen nothing indicating that there is a
problem. He saw no reason to make a change. A few chickens will control bugs, which is
beneficial. Specifying a number based on the size of a lot seemed unreasonable, but he
sees no reason to change the ordinance.

Commissioner Cannon stated that the Code currently states that lots that are larger than
one-half acre are allowed to have 20 chickens. He has a 1.5-acre lot and asked if he would
be allowed to have 60 chickens. He felt that allowing chickens in a more dense area such
as a townhome community may violate private property rights of neighbors. The primary
predator of chickens is the racoon and he has seen devastating destruction as a result. He
asked if there is a grandfather clause. He felt that there were a lot of legal issues that could
be explored in greater detail.

Commissioner Cluff felt that what they were trying to mitigate with the ordinance to address
Commissioner Breinholt’s concern were the negative impacts of chickens such as smell and
noise. She liked the concept of looking at the setback requirement for dwelling units and
suggested it be around 25 feet and setting a limit on the number of chickens at six for any
property that can meet the 25-foot setback requirement.

A scenario was described where an Accessory Dwelling Unit could be in close proximity to
a neighbor’s chicken coop. What might happen in that instance was discussed.
Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge stated that someone wanting to build an
ADU next to the property line would build with the understanding that the chicken coop is in
close proximity. Grandfathering issues were discussed.

City Attorney, Ryan Carter, stated that nothing that is grandfathered lasts forever. In looking
at an adjustment to the number of chickens on a piece of property, a property owner is in
compliance with the existing number but if that number declines then the chicken owner
would be grandfathered in until he has abandoned keeping his coop flock at the same
number that he started with for a period of six months. Once that happens, the grandfather
provisions lapses. Anytime an amendment is made to the zoning ordinances, the way the
community comes into conformance with those ordinances is just a function of time.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 4
February 23, 2023

Commissioner Rushton referred to Riverton’s Chicken Ordinance and stated that HOAs
don’t need to be discussed because they will deal with the issue separately. He could think
of no development area in Riverton where there are individual lots that are smaller than one-
quarter acre. If there is a multiplier of 20 chickens per one-half acre, the number could be
changed to 10 for a one-quarter acre. The setbacks should remain as they are and if
someone can figure out how to make it fit on a one-quarter acre they should be allowed to.
He expected that to be the bottom threshold. He did not suggest that the standards be
changed for one person. It was noted that chickens are not overly smelly.

Commissioner Cluff stated that there are likely people that have less than a one-quarter acre
lot without an HOA that would like to have chickens and will wonder why they can't have
them. Commissioner Rushton suggested the standard be changed to .2 acres. He expected
HOAs to take care of most of the small lots. A person's right to have chickens should not
be eliminated. He suggested, however, that the setback remain. Ms. Halversen stated that
currently, the Code allows six chickens per one-quarter acre.

Commissioner Matheson reported that he grew up with chickens and has had neighbors
who have had issues with chicken feed attracting rodents. As a result, he considered lot
size to be significant. He facetiously suggested that those with chickens be required to have
a neutered cat as well to help control the rodent population. He questioned whether 40 feet
was a reasonable setback on a small lot and if the setback can be met on an 8,000-square-
foot lot. He considered the 40-foot setback excessive. He felt that 28 feet was more
reasonable on a smaller lot. He stated that some types of birds are noisier than others and
might not be suitable in a residential neighborhood. He was not opposed to a no-rooster
stipulation in the ordinance if doing so will create a better environment. Ms. Halverson
clarified that Riverton City currently does not allow roosters on properties of less than one-
half acre in size. Commissioner Matheson supported allowing residents to be self-sufficient
if they so choose. He was not opposed to recommending the Council amend the ordinance
to allow people who live on lots smaller than one-quarter acre to have chickens.

Commissioner Breinholt stated that he lives in the corner of the City that used to be Herriman
and the street was noted for the number of heat lamps used for chickens along one particular
street. Most had no idea there were chickens there. Every lot on the street was under
10,000 square feet. He questioned the reasoning behind putting a set number of chickens
on a lot based on size. He suggested that the recommendation be based on science or fact.
On a small lot, it is not possible to place a coop 40 feet from a dwelling but perhaps 25 feet.
With a reasonable number of chickens, the smell and noise are not problematic.

Mr. Carter commented that the only literature he was aware of that addresses this issue
focuses on the number of chickens that should occupy a coop and by extension, a run. He
had never seen a scientific ideal number of chickens for a broader residential zone with a
fenced property. When the Chicken Ordinance was first crafted, it was controversial. Staff’s
method was to look at neighboring cities and come up with a number that was in harmony.
That was proposed to the City Council. The main discussion pertained to the extent to which
they would have to be regulated by Code Enforcement, which was a significant concern.
The basic methodology is the same. They have found that Herriman has a slightly different
standard that is tiered. They received a proposal to model Riverton City’s after Herriman’s.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  5
February 23, 2023

When it was first presented, staff prepared information that included Herriman and they went
through a legislative process to create the current ordinance. They still do not have a better
answer in terms of the ideal number. Mr. Carter explained that one standard allows for one
chicken per two square feet inside a coop or run.

Commissioner Cannon was interested in knowing when the ordinance was approved and
did not know how to compare it to Herriman, where the population was 300 40 or 50 years
ago. In response to a question, Mr. Carter stated that the City’s ordinances are considered
to be restrictions against the common law right to do what you want with your property. The
standard would be set in city code, however, if Codes, Covenants, and Restrictions
("CC&Rs") come along that are more restrictive than an ordinance, the CC&Rs would
control. The reverse is also true. If the CC&Rs allow for as many chickens as desired in
the City, Riverton City’s ordinance has restrictions and would control. The City does not
enforce CC&Rs because it is contrary to the democratic process but CC&Rs can have a
more restrictive limitation than the City ordinance. Residents would have to abide by them
so long as the HOA enforces its own regulations.

Commissioner Cannon commented that many who decide to raise chickens soon realize
they are not cut out for it. He considered it a private property issue but he also sympathized
with the neighbors.

Commissioner Rushton agreed with Commissioner Park that change starts with one person
who should be present to describe the request. In this case, an elected official brought the
issue to staff and the Commission was now being asked to define it. He noted that the last
Animal Ordinance Riverton changed involved residential goats. At the time, the City did not
allow them. The interested resident at the time spoke to their elected official who suggested
they reach out to staff who researched it. The person showed up and addressed the
situation and what was being requested. What the Commission was being asked to do
tonight involves an issue that was brought to staff on behalf of a resident who was not
present. Commissioner Rushton stated that we live in a republic where we are expected to
participate. He felt that the interested person should be present. He noted that it is difficult
to craft an ordinance when they do not know what the request is. He suggested that they
be denied until the resident makes a request based on the need.

Commissioner Park wondered if the interested party approached their Council Member and
perhaps did not get back to them. Many do not know how the process works. He
encouraged staff to let the Council Member that brought the issue forward know that they
should make the constituent aware of when the issue is to be discussed by the Planning
Commission. It would make a marked difference to have the interested party present to
describe the reasoning behind the request.

There was concern expressed about chickens becoming a nuisance. Mr. Carter stated that
in that case, they would fall under the Nuisance Ordinance in terms of being dealt with even
if they do not have more than the allowed number. He explained that nuisance ordinances
can set a higher bar. The nuisance must create a condition that is injurious to life or
hazardous to the surrounding community. Findings would have to be made such as
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
February 23, 2023

excessive fly accumulation or the spread of disease. Excessive smell can also constitute a
nuisance but there must be a compelling case to prosecute that.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Breinholt noted that the current ordinance specifies that a coop must be 40
feet from a dwelling. Mr. Carter stated that he owns chickens and the question leads them
in a direction that is reasonably debatable from all sides. Some might think that a coop
cannot be kept any distance from a residence and be acceptable while others are fine with
it being in close proximity. He noted that the closer to a chicken coop, the denser the fly
accumulation. Requiring 40 feet creates a buffer between the coop and the ingress and
egress to a home. He thought that might mitigate some fly problems.

Commissioner Rushton commented that the City has a great process and great staff and is
trying to define something without knowing what the request is. He suggested the request
be denied and sent back to allow the City Council Member to speak to the constituent who
could bring the matter forward with a recommendation from staff based on the need.

Commissioner Park commented that based on the administrative action function of the
Planning Commission, decisions are based on substantial evidence. He did not believe they
have that in this case to make a decision. He felt that more input was needed. While he
agreed that the process begins with one person, he suggested that that person be present
to define the request. Based on the lack of substantial evidence, he suggested that the
request be tabled or denied.

Commissioner Matheson agreed with Commissioners Rushton, Park, and Breinholt. With
respect to the number of chickens, he reported that on average a chicken will lay an egg
every other day. Most families in Riverton should be allowed to have six. He felt that a coop
within 30 feet of a dwelling would allow it to only be so large with six chickens. Those with
one-half acre lots or larger could have more with no roosters.

Procedural issues were discussed. Mr. Carter stated that the Planning Commission could
choose to table the matter and bring it back. In that case, it must be brought back at a later
time. They could also pass it forward to City Council to invite further public comment or they
could recommend denial. A recommendation of denial would go back to the City Council for
review. It could be based in part on the fact that they did not have adequate evidence to
support a different finding. A recommendation of denial would start the process over again.

Commissioner Cluff’s preference was to move the matter along to the City Council. She felt
that the problem they are being asked to solve is whether to allow chickens on smaller lots.
She referenced Commissioner Breinholt’s claim that an entire neighborhood already seems
to be violating the ordinance by wanting to have chickens even though their lots are not large
enough. That tells her that there is a need for chickens on smaller lots. It is then a matter
of the number of chickens to allow. She liked Commissioner Matheson’s idea of a minimum
of six. She also felt there needed to be a reasonable setback. She suggested that the
number of chickens be based on a certain square footage per chicken. That way it can scale
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
February 23, 2023

up based on the space available. Commissioner Cluff was not concerned so much about
this specific request but she generally supported rules that roll back restrictions on citizens.

Commissioner Cannon reported that the University of Georgia recommends a minimum of
three square feet per chicken. Mr. Prestwich stated that for many years on a one-half acre
or one-acre lot, someone could keep 20 chickens. He described the various amendments
that have taken place over the years, the ordinance has moved to become more permissive
over time. He stated that the last amendment allows lots that are zoned R-22 with less than
one-half acre to have 20 chickens per one-half acre. The next step logically deals with
10,000-square-foot lots that are not zoned R-4 or R-3, and lots smaller than 10,000-square
feet.

Commissioner Cluff moved to recommend APPROVAL to the City Council to amend
the Residential Chicken Ordinance with the following restrictions:

       1.     Allow up to six chickens on lots under 10,000 square feet if they can meet
              the setback requirements of 25 feet from a dwelling.

       2.     Require three square feet per chicken within an enclosure.

Commissioner Park seconded the motion.

Commissioner Park asked if roosters and other bird species and types are already
addressed in the ordinance. Mr. Carter confirmed that they are.

Vote on motion:         Commissioner Park-Aye, Commissioner Matheson-Aye.
Commissioner Rushton-Nay, Commissioner Cluff-Aye, Commissioner Breinholt-
Abstained, Commissioner Cannon-Abstained, Chair Gilchrist-Aye. The motion
passed 4-to-1 with two abstentions.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

       A.     NONE.

4.     DISCUSSION ITEMS

       A.     Planning Commission Training – Given by Craig Hall.

5.     MINUTES

       A.     None.

6.     ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:35 p.m.
