                  RIVERTON CITY ATTORNEY MEMORANDUM


TO:            City Elected Officials, David Brickey
FROM:          Ryan Carter
DATE:          April 16, 2021
SUBJECT:       Analysis of City Storm Water Program, and Related Utility Fee.




                                            I. Introduction.

    This memorandum explains at length the importance of Riverton City’s Storm Sewer System.
Purpose of this explanation is rooted in the understanding that this program may be unpopular with
residents/taxpayers who may not understand why it needs to exist. In short, the service provided
arises from an unfunded mandate, found in state and federal law, to maintain storm water quality by
eliminating pollutants from the same before it reaches other public waters. The consequences of
ignoring this mandate are also further explained in this memorandum.

    After covering the foregoing issues, this memorandum takes an unexpected turn. City staff has
evaluated the storm water program to determine whether the persons or business paying for such
services are indeed paying their fair share for the same. The conclusion reached by City staff is, that
because residential customers do not discharge pollutants into storm water systems at the same
concentrations when compared to commercial customers, residential customers are paying more than
their fair share for this service. This memorandum, therefore, serves as an introduction to an
ordinance amendment which staff intends to present to the City Council for its consideration.


               II. Application of State and Federal Law to City Storm Sewer System.

   The United States Clean Water Act (“CWA”) and Utah Water Quality Act (“UWQA”) present a
comprehensive statutory enactment designed to prohibit the pollution of public waters in the state of
Utah. These laws apply to lakes, rivers, streams, springs, and even underground accumulations of
water. Riverton City provides storm water management services for waters which accumulate on

                                                   1
public rights of way. Inasmuch as the City’s storm sewer system discharges accumulated storm
water into the ground and into public waters such as the Jordan River, the CWA/UWQA strictly
control Riverton City’s management of its storm water sewer system. The CWA holds jurisdiction
over the City’s storm water sewer system under the following legal chain. First, 33 U.S.C. § 1311(a),
prohibits the discharge of pollutants into “navigable waters,” of the United States. The federal
regulations implementing the CWA further define “waters of the United States,” to include, inter alia,
waters “which are currently used, were used in the past, or may be susceptible to use in interstate or
foreign commence” and “tributaries of such waters.” 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.

    Second, the Great Salt Lake is a navigable water the CWA’s implementing regulations. In short,
the Great Salt Lake was deemed to be navigable under federal law, because the United States
Supreme Court entered a ruling to this effect in the Case of Utah v. United States, 403 U.S. 9 (1971 ).
The Supreme Court held that because pioneers used the Great Salt Lake to shuttle livestock to and
from areas around the lake, it was “used in the past” for navigating goods in commerce. To be clear,
this case wasn’t decided under the framework of the CWA. However, the CWA’s implementing
regulations also state that if a body of water is “determined by a Federal court to be navigable-in-fact
under [any] federal law,” the CWA is deemed to have jurisdiction over that body of water. The
Supreme Court’s opinion in the case of Utah v. United States therefore had the unexpected effect of
rendering the Great Salt Lake subject to the jurisdiction of the CWA. Thus the Great Salt Lake is a
“traditional navigable water” of the United States pursuant to 33 CFR § 328.3 and 40 CFR
230.3(s)(1) and therefore subject to the CWA.

    Finally, the Jordan River, becomes subject to the jurisdiction of the CWA because of its
connection as a tributary to “waters of the United States,” i.e., the Great Salt Lake. [33 U.S.C. §
1362(7) and 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.] Riverton City’s storm water sewer system discharges directly into
the Jordan River, and into canals which ultimately drain into the Jordan River. Therefore, City’s
storm sewer discharge into the Jordan River renders it subject to the CWA, which is administered by
the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”).

        Section 402(a) of the CWA creates the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System,
commonly known as NPDES, and the EPA is the administrator over this System. The standards
which apply to the NPDES are implemented by the EPA through its permitting system. This is what
gives the EPA ultimate control over the City’s storm sewer system.

        That said, a state may establish its own NPDES program and issue permits which set
discharge standards for governmental entities. The Permit issued to a city under an NPDES program
is typically known as a Municipal Separate Stormwater Sewer System Permit, more commonly
known as an MS4 permit. But the permitting system created by a state must ultimately be approved
by the EPA. Approval is granted only to a state which demonstrates it will uphold all EPA-issued
standards under the CWA. [33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)]. The State of Utah has been authorized to
administer the NPDES program in Utah since July 7, 1987. [See: 52 Fed. Reg. 27578-27579 (July
22, 1987)].

        The Utah Division of Water Quality has issued its own raft of water quality regulations which
it enforces under its NPDES permitting system. The Utah Legislature has also supported the
administration and enforcement of federal pollutant standards, by adoption of the UWQA, found in


                                                   2
Title 19 of Utah Code. Water quality standards issued under the UWQA will not be reproduced
here. By way of enforcement, the UWQA states, “it is unlawful for any person to discharge a
pollutant into waters of the state or to cause pollution which constitutes a menace to public health and
welfare, or is harmful to wildlife, fish or aquatic life, or impairs domestic, agricultural, industrial,
recreational, or other beneficial uses of water.” Utah Code Ann. § 19-5-107. On a side note, a
“person” is defined to include municipalities under the UWQA. Utah Code Ann. § 19-1-103.
Therefore, both the Utah Division of Water Quality (“DWQ”) and the EPA are enabled to enforce
illegal discharge of pollutants by Riverton City into public waters such as the Jordan River through
its storm sewer system.


      III. Enforcement of Federal and State Water Quality Regulations by the EPA and the
                                            State of Utah.

    Under the terms and conditions of the MS4 permit issued to Riverton by the DWQ to discharge
water into the Jordan River, Riverton is required to prevent the waters which flow through its storm
sewer system from carrying pollutants above specified concentrations because the sewer system will
eventually flow into state waters. The burden this creates for the City comes from the fact that
virtually every property owner in Riverton City discharges storm water from private property into the
City storm sewer system. Waters running from private property into the City’s storm sewer system
are known to carry pollutants which the City must prevent from entering the system, or remove from
the system before the waters flow into the Jordan River. To this end, Riverton City must enact
ordinances which protect the quality of waters which are discharged into the City storm water utility
system from private property. Riverton must also administer a program to keep said waters clean by
implementation of several measures. Said measures include (without limitation): monitoring
construction sites to prevent discharge of contaminants into the storm sewer system; regular street
sweeping; maintaining clean conditions in publicly owned detention ponds, or requiring maintenance
of privately owned detention ponds; and monitoring and testing of water quality found in the City’s
storm sewer system.

    Failure to meet state and federal standards for pollutant discharge can carry heavy consequences.
In the last six years, the DWQ and the EPA have independently taken turns at auditing and penalizing
municipalities, Salt Lake County, and even UDOT. The following are some summary consequences
of the audits conducted by DEQ and the EPA:

    1. In February of 2016, the United States Attorney’s office filed suit against Salt Lake County in
        U.S. District Court, alleging that the County had failed to adequately maintain the terms and
        conditions of its MS4 permit. Salt Lake County did not contest this suit. The ultimate
        outcome was settlement, expressed a Consent Decree, and accepted by the Court in April of
        2016. Said Consent Decree, some 44 pages in length, is filled will requirements of the County
        to avoid additional legal exposure. Additionally, the County was required pay a penalty in
        the amount of $280,000. The requirements found in the consent decree will not be
        reproduced here, but it is fair to say that the County incurred substantial expense in order to
        meet the requirements of the Consent Decree, in addition to payment of the penalty.



                                                   3
    2. In December of 2019, the United States Attorney’s office filed suit against the State of Utah,
        Department of Transportation, alleging the State had failed to adequately maintain the terms
        and conditions of its MS4 permit. As in the case against Salt Lake County, the State of Utah
        did not contest suit. It accepted a Consent Decree which obligated the State to pay $325,000
        as a penalty, and meet performance standards which are articulated in the 39 page consent
        decree.

    3. In 2018, DWQ conducted a program audit of Lehi City to measure compliance with the City’s
        MS4 permit conditions. The Director found that Lehi City violated the UWQA in several
        respects. As a means of heading off legal action Lehi City negotiated terms and ultimately
        agreed to a settlement order with DWQ. Lehi was required to pay $24,400 into an
        environmental mitigation project. In addition, Lehi was required to construct and install
        facilities to protect its storm sewer system from pollutants generated on the City’s own
        property. This included construction of wash-down and dump facilities, and additional
        subsurface sewer systems. Lehi was also required to hire and train staff to implement a
        rigorous monitoring program to monitor construction sites and check “outfall” locations,
        which are points where storm water leaves the City’s system.

    4. In 2019, The City of Saint George received an audit report from DWQ, which found 23 areas
        in which St. George had failed to uphold the terms and conditions of its MS4 permit. St.
        George was required to pay a $5,928 fine, and allocate additional City resources to properly
        remedy existing failures and prevent additional failures from happening in the future.


              IV. Riverton City’s efforts to Maintain Compliance with its MS4 Permit.

    In January of 2010, Riverton City adopted Ordinance No. 10-01, which established water quality
standards for storm water which flows through the City storm water system. This ordinance
authorizes the City to exercise its police powers to enforce water quality standards, where private
persons or entities cause storm water to discharge into the City storm water system. If a person or
entity allows storm water to flow into a City storm water system which does not meet City standards,
the person or entity responsible can be required to pay criminal penalties for this violation.
Ordinance No. 10-01 also enables Riverton City to comply with all provisions of the UWQA, the
Utah Administrative Code, and the terms and conditions of the City’s MS4 permit. The City
undertakes several administrative practices to uphold its stormwater ordinance, generally described
above. Ongoing administration of this program requires the attention of approximately 4 employees.

    While Utah and federal laws require Riverton City to expend City-resources to protect the quality
of water which flows through its storm water management system, the City receives no funding from
external sources which support the City’s cost to protect storm water quality.


             V. Management of Costs, and the Rise of the Equivalent Residential Unit.




                                                  4
    As a part of regulating storm water discharges in Riverton City, Riverton City created a utility
which operates as an enterprise fund, to support the management of storm water facilities and
administration. This utility/enterprise fund was created by adoption of the Stormwater Utility
Ordinance No. 10-08 in the year 2010. The ordinance authorizes the City to assess its citizens and
business owners alike who discharge storm water from their respective properties into City-owned
storm water sewer systems.

    Ordinance No. 10-08 establishes a method of assessing utility fees by estimate of the average
amount of storm water which will flow from a parcel of privately held property into the City’s storm
water system. Factors which are involved in this assessment include: 1) the average size of the
property; 2) the use found to occur on the property (i.e. residential as opposed to commercial); and 3)
a “unit value” which is assigned to different properties, and labeled in the ordinance as an Equivalent
Residential Unit, or ERU. One ERU is equal to 2744 square feet.

    The average single family dwelling is assigned the value of a single ERU, while the average
duplex is assigned two ERU units. A single ERU is assigned a base fee rate under the City’s fee
schedule. The numeric value of an ERU (2744 Square Feet) is also used as a unit of measure for
determining the storm water utility fee for commercial uses. The size of a commercial lot’s
impermeable surface is divided by 2744 (or one ERU) to determine a multiplier for the fee identified
on the fee schedule. In other words, the larger the impermeable commercial surface in a commercial
property, the higher the fee.


      VI. Fine Tuning Allocation of Storm Water Management Costs Among Different Uses of
                                                Land.

    There are three essential services provided by a storm water utility. First, a storm water utility
safely removes storm water from roads before it accumulates to the degree that it invites a vehicle
accident or causes flooding. Next, a storm water utility enables storm water which accumulates on
private property to be managed in a way which prohibits flooding to neighboring lands. Finally, a
storm water utility prohibits the discharge of polluted water into public waters, to the level required
by the City’s MS4 permit issued by the State of Utah.

    Since this system was designed, storm water engineers in several different states have brought the
following issue under closer examination: Does the pollution discharged from private property into a
storm water system vary according to land use? In other words, is there a greater concentration of,
say, toxic metals in water discharged from a grocery store parking lot, when compared to water
discharged from an apartment complex, or single family residential neighborhood? The answer turns
out to be a solid “yes.”

    Riverton City staff has reviewed studies which focused on these issues, in study areas found in
Los Angeles area of California; Denver, Colorado; and various collection points throughout North
Carolina. The conclusion derived from these studies show across the board, that land used for
residential purposes discharges pollutants at substantially lower concentrations, when compared
alongside commercial uses. The only limited exception to this statement is phosphorus, likely



                                                    5
derived from lawn fertilizing, can appear in residential areas at concentrations which are competitive
with commercial areas.

    Upon learning of this development, it occurred to City staff that, inasmuch as an ERU is used to
pay for pollution control, residential customers are receiving a fee which is higher than the expense
generated for a residential customer to eliminate storm water pollutants. Staff therefore believes a
reduction in the storm water utility fee for residential customers, and a corresponding increase in the
fee for commercial customers is warranted. Accordingly, staff will be presenting a draft of a new
ordinance which it will place before the City Council to explain how staff believes storm sewer
service can be reassessed.


                                            VII.    Summary.

    This memorandum takes great care to explain why the City’s storm water sewer system must be
maintained to the levels expected by DWQ and EPA. We delivered this information to drive home
the point that, while staff has put forth an ordinance which amounts to a reduction in storm water
service, this should not be taken to mean that the level of service may be reduced, or that
pending/future infrastructure projects do not need to be implemented. That said, staff is of the
opinion that the model of billing for storm water service needs to be re-modeled; the result will not
amount to a decrease in storm sewer service.




                                                   6
