                                  CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA

                                             October 17, 2023
                                        12830 South Redwood Road,
                                            Riverton, UT 84065

Riverton City Meeting Information
The City Council Meeting will be conducted as a hybrid meeting with in person attendance and audio/video of
the meeting broadcast live via the City Meetings link. Accompanying agenda documents will be available for
public review through the City website prior to the meeting and audio/written minutes will be available following
the meeting. Citizen comment may be submitted via email to recorder@rivertonutah.gov or at e-comments at
City Meetings. All comments submitted by noon on the date of the meeting will be relayed to the City Council.

1.   Mayor and Council Informal Meeting - 6:00 PM

2.   COUNCIL MEETING - 7:00 PM

3.   Call to Order

4.   Prayer/Pledge of Allegiance

5.   Citizen Comment
     The public may comment on any topic not listed on the agenda. All comments shall be directed to the
     Mayor and City Council and limited to three (3) minutes per person, unless additional time is authorized
     by the Mayor. No person shall be allowed to comment more than once during the comment period and
     shall not debate or expect dialogue with the Governing Body or City Staff. Emailed or e-comments may
     be submitted to recorder@rivertonutah.gov or at City Meetings. Any comments needing or requesting
     follow-up will be assigned to staff for further action as appropriate after the meeting. Please provide
     contact information so later follow-up can take place.

6.   Mayor/Council Reports

7.   Presentations/Recognitions

     7.a      Riverton City Choice Awards for Excellence in Education, Oquirrh Hills Middle School -
              Presentation by Councilmember Buroker

              Riverton City Choice Awards for Excellence in Education, South Hills Middle School -
              Presentation by Councilmember McCay

     7.b      Utah Chiefs of Police Association Accreditation Alliance Presentation - Val Shupe,
              Executive Director

     7.c      Bangerter Highway Project and Mountain View Corridor Project - Project Team Managers

                                                                                                                    1
                Bangerter South_Riverton City Council Presentation_10.17.23.pdf
                Riverton City Council Presentation_Oct 17 (F).pdf

8.    Consent Items
      Routine items on the Consent Agenda not requiring public discussion by the City Council or which have
      been discussed previously may be adopted by one single motion. A Council member may request to
      remove an item from the consent agenda for individual discussion and consideration.

      8.a       Minute Approval: October 3, 2023

                2023-10-03.WS.CC.Min.pdf

9.    Public Hearing(s)/Action Items

      9.a       Ordinance No. 23-15 - Text amendment to Section 18.235.040(6), Landscape Design
                Standards, Addressing a Single Word Clarification, Amendments proposed by Riverton
                City. - Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director

                Ordinance No. 23-15 - Water Efficient Landscaping Amendments.pdf
                23-15 Water Efficient Landscaping Ordinance Amendment Staff Report.pdf

10. Discussion/Action Items

      10.a      Artificial Turf Discussion - Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director

11. Upcoming Meetings
       a. November 7, 2023 - 5:00 PM - Work Session & City Council Meeting
       b. December 6, 2023 - 5:00 PM - Work Session & City Council Meeting
       c. January 2, 2024 - 5:00 PM - Work Session & City Council Meeting
       a. January 16, 2024 - 5:00 PM - Work Session & City Council Meeting

12. Closed Session
        a. Discussion of the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an
           individual
        b. Strategy session to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation
        c. Strategy session to discuss the sale, purchase, exchange or lease of real property,
           including any form of a water rights or water shares

13. Adjournment

Riverton City Hall is an ADA compliant facility. Individuals needing special accommodations or assistance during this meeting
shall notify the City Recorder’s Office at 801-208-3126 at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Accessible parking and
entrance is located on the south end of the building with elevator access to the Council Chambers located on the second floor.

                                                      Certificate of Posting
I, Jamie Larsen, Riverton City Recorder, certify that, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting, the foregoing Agenda was emailed
to the Salt Lake Tribune, Deseret News and the Riverton Journal. A copy of the Agenda was also posted at Riverton City Hall,
on Riverton City’s Website at www.rivertonutah.gov, and on the Utah Public Meeting Notice Website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

Dated October 17, 2023

                                                                                                                                  2
3
