            RIVERTON CITY WORK SESSION / COUNCIL MEETING



FROM:          Ryan Carter
DATE:          March 17, 2020
SUBJECT:       Resolutions approving Councilmembers to serve on the governining boards of
               governmental entities.

               Councilmember McDougal:                  Transjordan Landfill Board.

               Councilmember Wells:                     Alternate to the Unified Fire Service Area
                                                        and Unified Fire Authority.




SUMMARY: Riverton City is a member of the Transjordan Landfill, an interlocal entity which
includes several other municipalities in Salt Lake County. The Transjordan Landfill is governed by a
board of directors which consists of one member for each municipality which is a member of the
Transjordan Landfill.

Presently, Trace Robinson serves as the City’s representative. After reviewing this matter, the Mayor
has opted to appoint Councilmember McDougal to serve on the board and seeks the Council’s advice
and consent to this nomination. Mr. Robinson, in turn, would be designated to serve as an alternate
member to serve in the absence of Councilmember McDougal.

Similarly, Riverton City is a member of an interlocal entity known as the Unified Fire Authority, and
a local district known as the Unified Fire Service Area. Presently, Councilmember Stewart serves on
the board of directors for both entities and is in need of an alternate to represent Riverton City in his
absence. Mayor Staggs has nominated Councilmember Wells to serve as an alternate to
Councilmember Stewart. Note that while the City has adopted a resolution to withdraw from the
Unified Fire Service Area, the City will need to continue to be represented as the City’s membership
on the board winds down.


                                                    1
FISCAL IMPACT:

       N/A.


ATTACHMENTS:

       N/A



RECOMMENDED MOTION OR ACTION:

"I move the Riverton City Council adopt a Resolution approving the appointment of Councilmember
McDougal to serve on the board of directors for the Transjordan Landfill, and Mr. Trace Robinson to
serve as an alternate."

"I move the Riverton City Council adopt a Resolution approving the appointment of Councilmember
Wells to serve as an alternate member on the board of directors for the Unified Fire Service Area and
the Unified Fire Authority.”




                                                  2
