                       INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                        BETWEEN RIVERTON CITY AND UTOPIA


        THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this _____ day of _____, 2021, by and
between Riverton City, a municipality and political subdivision of the State of Utah, hereinafter
called “City,” and Utah Telecommunication Open Infrastructure Agency, an interlocal entity of
the State of Utah created pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Section 11-13-
101 et seq., hereinafter called “UTOPIA.” City and UTOPIA are collectively referred to herein as
the “Parties.”

                                         WITNESSETH:

         WHEREAS, UTOPIA desires to obtain from City, a license to lay, maintain, operate,
repair, inspect, protect, install, remove, and replace fiber optic cable, and other transmission and
distribution structures and facilities (the “Facilities”), within the public highways, streets, roads,
and rights-of-way which are within the jurisdiction and responsibility of City, together with the
right of ingress and egress for UTOPIA, its officers, employees, agents, and contractors to enter
upon said public rights-of-way with such equipment as is necessary to install, maintain, operate,
repair, inspect, protect, remove and replace said Facilities; and

        WHEREAS, City is willing to grant said license under the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement; and

        WHEREAS, the Parties are authorized to enter into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Section 11-13-101 et seq. and wish to enter
into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement reflecting the arrangement described above.

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:

        1.      Grant of License. The City hereby grants, conveys and sets over unto UTOPIA, a
non-exclusive license to lay, maintain, operate, repair, inspect, protect, install, remove and replace
the Facilities over and through the public highways, streets, roads, and public rights-of-way
(collectively, the “Streets”), which are within the jurisdiction and responsibility of City, together
with the right of ingress and egress for UTOPIA, its officers, employees, agents, contractors and
assigns to enter upon said Streets with such equipment as is necessary to install, maintain, operate,
repair, inspect, protect, remove and replace the Facilities. This non-exclusive license will expire
upon termination of this agreement (the “Agreement.”)

         2.      UTOPIA.. In consideration of the license granted to UTOPIA described in Section
1. of this Agreement, UTOPIA agrees to pay Riverton City a license fee to be collected by the
Utah State Tax Commission and remitted to the City as required by Utah Code § 10-1-405, in an
amount equal to 3.5% of gross receipts from telecommunications service earned within the
territorial jurisdiction of Riverton City. As used in this Section, the term “gross receipts from



                                                                                         4810-4928-0537.1
                                                 1
telecommunications service” shall hold the same meaning as this term is defined in Utah Code §
10-1-402.

        3.      Term. The Parties agree that either Party may terminate this Agreement for cause
upon 90 days prior written notice, or at any other time mutually agreed to by the Parties. Unless
terminated pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph, the initial term of this Agreement will
expire fifteen years from its effective date, and will automatically renew for an additional one year
term on each Anniversary. In no event will this Agreement run for more than fifty years.

        4.      Construction and Location. UTOPIA may install Facilities at those locations within
the Streets as shall be determined in accordance with plans, specifications and maps prepared, or
caused to be prepared, by UTOPIA. Prior to performing any work in the Streets for initial Facilities
installation or otherwise, UTOPIA shall apply for an encroachment/excavation permit, or other
applicable City permit. City shall review and may improve the submitted plan prior to permit
issuance. Upon compliance with this Agreement and all applicable permit requirements, including
but not limited to a traffic management plan, surface and landscaping restoration plan, and work
schedule, City shall issue a permit to UTOPIA’s contractor, allowing said contractor to proceed
with the work in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the permit. As-built drawings
shall be submitted to the City within thirty days of the completion of construction. All applicable
regulations and permits of City shall be fully complied with by UTOPIA and its contractor(s).

         5.      Protection of Traffic During Construction. UTOPIA shall require its contractor to
conduct its construction operation so that there shall be a minimum of interference or interruption
to City with respect to the handling of traffic. UTOPIA’s contractor shall at all times require such
watchmen, barricades, lights or other reasonable measures for the protection of traffic as may be
reasonably required to warn and safeguard the public against injury or damage during construction,
maintenance, repair or replacement of the Facilities and shall hold City harmless from any and all
liabilities arising from UTOPIA’s negligence or intentional wrongdoing during any construction
commenced under the terms of this easement.

        6.       Compaction of Backfill. The backfilling of any trench within the paved portion of
the street, the shoulders thereof, within park strips, under sidewalk or curb and gutter, or the portion
under or intersecting the street, shall be thoroughly compacted in accordance with all applicable
standards and regulations, including City’s construction standards. The method of compaction
shall be subject to review by City at the time the permit application is reviewed. UTOPIA shall
require its contractors to comply with City’s construction standards and permit requirements.

        7.      Restoration of Existing Pavement. UTOPIA shall require its contractor to replace
any hard surface removed or damaged with the same type and depth of hard surface as that which
is adjoining, including the gravel base material. All disturbed surfaces shall be restored to the
standards established by City. In the event weather conditions do not permit immediate
replacement of permanent hard surface, a temporary surface shall be placed until such time as
weather conditions are favorable, at which time the temporary surface shall be removed and
replaced with a permanent road surface. If the gravel surface, gravel shoulder, or gravel surface
approach to City roads become fouled with clay or other unsuitable material, such surfacing shall
be removed and replaced with new gravel surfacing material. The repairs to hard surface shall
include hard surfaces which are damaged by construction equipment used in constructing,


                                                                                          4810-4928-0537.1
                                                  2
maintaining, or repairing the Facilities. In all cases UTOPIA hereby agrees to cause its contractor
to restore those portions of the street through which the work actually traverses, to as near its
original condition as is reasonably possible.

        8.     Disposal of Surface Material in Cleaning Up Street. Upon completion of the work,
UTOPIA shall assure that all surplus material shall be removed from within the limits of the Streets
and properly disposed of by the contractor. The disturbed surface shall be carefully graded to the
lines and grades established. UTOPIA shall immediately notify the City in the event that any
highway facility such as signs and culverts are disturbed or damaged during the process of the
work and shall promptly restore or replace the same to as near their original condition as is
reasonably possible. No material shall be left on private property adjacent to the Streets.

       9.     Maintenance of Facilities by UTOPIA. The Facilities and their attached
appurtenances shall at all times be maintained, repaired and operated by and at the expense of
UTOPIA.

        10.    Reconstruction of Street. In the event that any Street, or portion thereof is so
reconstructed at any future date as to location, grade or width, so as to require the adjustments or
relocation of manholes or other Facilities, UTOPIA shall assume and pay all costs incident to the
adjustment or relocation of such manholes or other Facilities in accordance with paragraph 14.

        11.     Crossing of Facilities and Expansion of Street System. It is expressly understood
and agreed by the Parties that as part of the consideration for this Agreement, that City shall have
the right to cross the Facilities at any point deemed necessary in the future construction and
expansion of City’s street system, provided that City shall use due care and diligence in the
protection of the Facilities in making such crossings. City shall provide a minimum 96 hour notice
of anticipated work unless an emergency necessitates immediate work take place. UTOPIA will
mark and identify its Facilities in or adjacent to the zone of the City’s work within 2 days prior to
City work.

         12.     Indemnification. Both parties are governmental entities under the Utah
Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Title 63G, Chapter 7, Utah Code, 1953, as amended.
Consistent with the terms of this Act, it is mutually agreed that each party is responsible and liable
for its own negligent acts which it commits or which are committed by its agents, officials, or
employees. UTOPIA agrees to defend and indemnify City against any and all claims of third-
parties against City, which arise from UTOPIA’s exercise of any of its rights under this Agreement,
except in the case of City’s sole negligence. Neither party waives any defenses otherwise available
under the Governmental Immunity Act. This Agreement shall in no manner constitute an
admission of any liability as to any third party or give any third party any greater or further right
or cause of action. It is hereby expressly understood and agreed that neither City nor UTOPIA is
hereby acknowledging any liability for any act of negligence, whether of omission or commission,
of their respective agents, servants, contractors or employees. UTOPIA shall procure and maintain
in force at its sole expense during the term of this Agreement property damage and public liability
insurance providing liability coverage for UTOPIA’s actions in relation to this interlocal
agreement and shall provide certificates of insurance to City upon request, which certificates shall
name the City as an additional insured. Such insurance shall provide for such coverages,
protections, insurable amounts, etc., as deemed advisable by the Parties and available through Utah


                                                                                         4810-4928-0537.1
                                                 3
Local Governments Trust, or any other insurance provider utilized by City or UTOPIA, and which
would be standard and reasonable for the uses contemplated hereunder.

        13.    Agreement Not to be Assigned. Neither party shall assign this Agreement nor any
interest hereunder without first obtaining the written consent of the other party.

       14.    Successors and Assigns. All covenants and agreements herein contained shall be
binding upon the parties hereto, and their respective successors in interest and assigns.

        15.     Subject To Relocation. This license is subject to the right of City at all times as City
deems necessary to construct roads, sidewalks or to carry out any other City purpose over the areas
covered by this license, and when UTOPIA’s Facilities and appurtenances or any of them
materially interfere with any City purpose, UTOPIA will remove, adjust and/or relocate such
Facilities and appurtenances within a reasonable time after written notice to do so by City and at
the expense of UTOPIA.

        16.     Notices. Any notice required or desired to be given pursuant to this Agreement
shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally or mailed, return receipt requested postage
prepaid, to the parties as follows:

       To UTOPIA: General Counsel
                  5858 South 900 East
                  Murray, UT 84121


       To City:



       Copy to:




The City and UTOPIA may change their addresses by providing written notice, as required under
this provision.

        17.    Contract Integration. This Agreement embodies the entire agreement between the
Parties and shall not be altered, enlarged or modified except in writing signed by both Parties. The
benefits and protection provided by this Agreement shall not inure to the benefit of third-parties.

       18.     Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Utah, both as to interpretation and performance.

       19.     Venue. Venue for any dispute related to this Agreement shall lie exclusively in the
Third Judicial District, Salt Lake County, State of Utah.




                                                                                          4810-4928-0537.1
                                                  4
        20.    No Separate Legal Entity Created; Interpretative Joint Board. No Separate legal
entity is created by this Agreement; however, to the extent that any administration of this
Agreement becomes necessary, then the City Mayor and the UTOPIA Executive Director, or their
designees, shall constitute a Joint Board for such purpose. Each of the Parties shall bear its own
costs associated with the Joint Board.

       21. Manner of Acquiring, Holding and Disposing of Property. No real property will be
acquired pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

       22. Review by Legal Counsel. Each of the Parties hereby certifies that, pursuant to the
requirements of Section 11-13-202.5, Utah Code (1953 as amended), it has submitted this
agreement to an attorney authorized to represent it for review as to proper form and compliance
with applicable law.

        23. Filing of Interlocal Agreement.         Executed copies of this Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement shall be placed on file with the official keeper of records of each of the
Parties within twenty-four hours of its execution and shall remain on file for public inspection
during the term of this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this agreement to be executed
by their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first hereinabove written.

                                               CITY



By:_______________________________________
Mayor

ATTEST:



__________________________________
City Recorder


                                               UTOPIA



___________________________________
Roger Timmerman, Executive Director




                                                                                         4810-4928-0537.1
                                                 5
