                             MEMORANDUM
To:            Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:          Planning Department
Date:          June 3, 2025
Subject:       Ordinance 25-18, “Priority Builders Rezone,” General Plan Amendment
               and Rezone of approximately 4.28-acres located near the northwest corner of
               11800 South and Redwood Road. Changing the General Plan Designation to
               High Density Residential and the zoning to RM-8, a multi-family residential
               zone up to 8 dwelling units per acre. Applicant- Scott Yermish of Priority
               Builders


On May 8, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this application. The
Commission at that hearing voted to recommend approval, with the addition of an SD
designation limiting use on the property to “townhomes” only. The Commission
recommended the following motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 25-18, “Priority Builders Rezone,” changing the
General Plan Designation to Medium High Density Residential (5-8 du/acre) and Rezoning
the subject properties to RM-8 (multi-family residential, 8 du/acre) for properties located at
the northwest corner of 11800 South Redwood Road and shown on the attached map, with a
Specific Development Designation limiting the development to “townhomes” only, as
described in Exhibit “A”.


Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant, Scott Yermish
representing Priority Builders. This request covers multiple parcels which have multiple
General Plan Designations and multiple Zoning Designations. If approved, this application
would place all the subject property in the same General Plan Designation and the same Zone.

The subject property is approximately 4.28-acres located near the northwest corner of 11800
South and Redwood Road with frontage on each road. There are four (4) parcels included in
the application with the following parcel numbers:
    • 27-22-377-021
    • 27-22-379-001
    • 27-22-379-009
    • 27-22-379-010

The property is crossed by Midas Creek and has some older homes and structures. One of the
parcels was approved for 4-story (58-ft tall) office building in 2019, but the project was never built.
Commercial zoning codes have been amended since that date which limit the allowed height to
35 feet.

Redwood Road is controlled by UDOT, while 11800 South (sometimes known as Meyers Lane)
is controlled by Riverton City. Riverton City utilities are available in the area.

The area has a mixture of General Plan Designations. The subject properties have General plan
designation of Community Commercial, Estate Density Residential, and Medium Density
Residential. All adjoining properties have the General Plan Designation of “Medium High Density
Residential” or Estate Density Residential. Across Redwood Road is Estate Density Residential
and Medium High Density Residential. To the south across 11800 South is Medium High Density
Residential. The General Plan Designations that correspond with the requested RM-8 Zone are
Medium High Density Residential (5-8 du/acre) and High Density Residential (8-12 du/acre).

Likewise, the area zoning is a mix. The subject properties are zoned Commercial Gateway (C-
G), Rural Residential (RR-22) and R-3 Residential. Adjacent properties to the north are zoned
RM-8, and to the south they are zoned RR-22. Across Redwood Road to the east is RR-22,
Commercial Neighborhood (C-N) and RM-6. To the south the zoning is RR-22, R-4, and RM-8.

The requested RM-8 Zone allows for a maximum density of eight dwelling units per acre.
Permitted uses in the RM-8 Zone include Condos, Townhomes (attached or detached),
Residential planned developments, parks, open space, and household pets.

The applicant describes his proposed use on the property as “Townhome Community that mimics
plans from the adjoining townhome subdivisions to the northwest and south.”

If the zoning were approved there would be additional applications, studies, reports and public
hearings for the site plan design.

The Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this application. The Commission voted
to recommend approval of the rezone, with the recommendation to add a Specific Development
(SD) designation to limit the development to “townhomes” only. The RM-8 zone indicates that
“condos or townhomes (attached or detached)” are permitted uses in the zone.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Rezone Application.
       2.   Request for RM-8.
       3.   Area Zoning Map.
       4.   Area General Plan Map.
              Area Zoning         RM-8




                                                RR-22
                                         C-D



                                               RM-6
                            R-4




rivertonutah.gov
              Area General Plan




rivertonutah.gov
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
May 8, 2025


3.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     “PRIORITY BUILDERS REZONE,” PLZ-25-4004, SCOTT YERMISH WITH
              PRIORITY BUILDINGS IS SEEKING A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
              AND REZONE OF FOUR PARCELS MAKING APPROXIMATELY 4.28
              ACRES. THE PARCELS ARE LOCATED NEAR THE NORTHWEST
              CORNER OF 11800 SOUTH AND REDWOOD ROAD. THE APPLICANT IS
              REQUESTING THE GENERAL PLAN BE AMENDED TO HIGH-DENSITY
              RESIDENTIAL, AND A REZONE FROM THE EXISTING R-4 RESIDENTIAL,
              AND GATEWAY COMMERCIAL ZONES TO THE RM-8 ZONE, A MULTI-
              FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE, WHICH ALLOWS CONDOS AND
              TOWNHOMES UP TO 8 DWELLINGS PER ACRE.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the subject property
is near 11800 South and Redwood Road on the north side of the City. The Applicant
originally requested rezoning to Residential Medium-Density, which allows for up to 14 units
per acre (“RM-14”). The request was later modified to lower the density to Residential
Medium-Density where eight units per acre is allowed (“RM-8”). As a result, two public
notices were sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property consisting of
the original notice and a corrected one indicating the change.

The Zoning and General Plan Maps were reviewed. The zoning dictates what can be done
with a property and General Plan designations usually match zoning in established areas.
The subject property is in an area of the City that includes multiple zones, including RM-8,
Commercial Gateway (“C-G”), Rural Residential (“RR-22”), and Residential Single-Family
(“R-4”). The General Plan Designation for the area was previously Estate Density
Residential and Community Commercial.

The subject property consists of four parcels currently zoned C-G, R-4, and RR-22 that
would be rezoned to RM-8. It is good practice to change the General Plan Designation at
the time of rezoning, so a request was also made to change the General Plan Designation
to Medium-High Density. An aerial map was displayed indicating existing homes and a
creek. Mr. Prestwich reported that a four-story office building was approved in 2019 on one
parcel, but it was never constructed.

Staff determined that the RM-8 Zone and Residential Medium Density Land Use Designation
are compatible with the area. Permitted uses include attached or detached condominiums
or townhomes, residential planned developments, parks and open spaces, and household
pets. Conditional uses include nursing homes, group daycares, public and quasi-public
buildings like churches and private schools, medical clinics, and golf courses. The threshold
for approval of legislative action items is that they represent a reasonably debatable idea.
For example, a reasonable idea for approval was that approval would allow similarly zoned
properties in the area. A reasonable idea for denial was that the General Plan currently calls
for Estate Density Residential.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 6
May 8, 2025


Mr. Prestwich reported that several public comments were received via email and made
available to the Planning Commission. The comments would also be forwarded to the City
Council. He noted that the application had not yet been added to a City Council Meeting
Agenda and would be separately noticed prior to the meeting.

Commissioner Cluff noticed that the red outline on the second notice was in an incorrect
location and asked if it still complied with noticing requirements. Mr. Prestwich stated that
the clerical error was not identified prior to compilation of the Staff Report. However, the
first notice indicated the correct area on the aerial map, and all property owners within 1,000
feet of the subject property received both notices.

In response to a follow-up question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that
concerns regarding traffic and parking would be addressed during Site Plan review. The
City Council would hold a public hearing on the current request. If approved, a Planning
Commission public hearing would be held regarding the Site Plan, and advance notice would
be sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. He noted that the property
abuts Redwood Road, which is owned by the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT"),
and 11800 South, which is a City-owned road, so a traffic study would be required.
Additionally, the creek is controlled by Salt Lake County and may include flood zones.

Mr. Prestwich reported that, due to ordinance restrictions and property configurations, RM-
8 properties in the City generally do not achieve eight units per acre.

Commissioner Cannon asked how much consideration is given to how rezoning may affect
residents of other cities. City Attorney, Ryan Carter stated that the Planning Commission
must consider if the new zone is a good use of the land. If a resident of a neighboring city
has legitimate input, it can be given the same weight as input from a resident of Riverton.
Historically, Riverton has felt that South Jordan did not pay particular attention to concerns
expressed by Riverton residents regarding development projects on 11800 South.
However, any citizens may speak and could have valuable input.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the City Council could consider adding a Specific
Development (“SD”) District that could allow changes to setbacks, reduction of open space,
etc. to recognize that it is a problematic parcel to develop. Mr. Prestwich stated that the
Planning Commission could recommend an SD, which is used to make exceptions to add
or remove certain zoning requirements. The Applicant would need to prove that a specific
requirement is not feasible and request a change. A Concept Plan had not been received
for the proposed subdivision, but Mr. Prestwich’s understanding was that the Applicant
intended to comply with all requirements of the RM-8 Zone. In response to a follow-up
question, it was clarified that the SD could not be applied as part of the Site Plan Review as
the Site Plan is an administrative review and only the City Council can create a SD.

Chair Park indicated that the public comments included traffic concerns and asked if UDOT
or the City had any plans regarding Redwood Road or 11800 South that could affect traffic
flow for the project. City Engineer, Matt Cassell clarified that there were currently no plans
for how that would be approached. Due to UDOT’s reluctance to allow curb cuts, the traffic
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
May 8, 2025


could be forced onto 11800 South, as there will only be right-in/right-out access from
Redwood Road. In response to a follow-up question, Mr. Cassell reported that the Army
Corps of Engineers may be involved, but it would depend on the final subdivision layout and
its impact on Midas Creek.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich stated that up to 40 units could
potentially fit on a 4.28-acre parcel, but the actual unit count on the subject property will be
lower due to its shape and topography.

Commissioner Cannon stated that townhomes normally do not have a lot of resident drivers,
so the traffic impact could be minimized. He asked if the two entrances onto 11800 South
could be merged. He referred to a previous flooding event and asked if Midas Creek could
be built to 100-year storm standards. Mr. Prestwich reported that the City cannot force the
developer to connect to the existing private road, but that would be the preferred access.
He was unsure if UDOT would allow another access point on Redwood Road. Mr. Cassell
stated that Salt Lake County conducted a study on Midas Creek to ensure that it could
withstand a 100-year storm event. The City would need to verify that the development would
not prevent the creek from staying within its banks during such an event.

The Applicant, Scott Yermish of Priority Builders and Newman Construction stated that he
lives in the Silos at Riverbend, and they have built several other communities in Riverton as
well. Approximately one year previously, he was informed that the office building would not
be constructed due to construction costs. After speaking with Staff, his company moved
forward with purchasing all four parcels for the development. They have considered two
options for Midas Creek, either a bridge or a storm drain system as was approved for the
subdivision to the north. They have spoken with the engineer who designed that system,
and Priority Builders’ engineer is well-qualified to address the issue. Specific needs and
solutions would be identified after zoning was secured. The neighboring HOA has discussed
repaving their entrance and expressed concerns about upkeep costs for Midas Creek, and
he hopes to reach an agreement with them to assist with those matters in exchange for
shared access. UDOT has indicated that they will allow direct right in/right out access from
Redwood Road, and it is his preference to avoid direct access from 11800 South.

Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing.

Ryan Clerico stated that he is not opposed to the development or rezoning but asked the
Planning Commission to consider that architectural standards of the Gateway Commercial
Zone would be lost and density would be increased. He believes that traffic is an appropriate
consideration in the rezoning discussion because the parcel currently allows a certain
commercial usage and unit count, and the number of vehicles per day would increase with
the new residential use. He lives west of the property and is outside of the 1,000-foot
notification zone, but he believes everyone who lives in the area and drives on 11800 South
would be affected by the development.

Luke Sieberts lives east of the subject property. He expressed concern that a large
percentage of the property will be undevelopable, so there will be higher density on the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
May 8, 2025


developable portion. He asked how the development would affect the retention of Midas
Creek as any development-related changes to Midas Creek could force him and his neighbor
to purchase flood insurance. His sister lives on the other side of Redwood Road from the
subject property. If an island is installed on Redwood Road, she will not be able to drive her
recreational vehicle into her yard.

Shelly Seiberts lives across the street from the subject property. No one likes high density,
especially in farm areas, as it increases theft and reduces the places where children can
play. She is also very concerned about traffic safety. A large number of accidents occur on
Redwood Road and 11800 South, and she already has difficulty getting out into traffic. She
understands why someone wants to develop the parcel, but she does not believe the roads
can support the density.

Noah Dixon resides directly east of the subject property. His main concern is safety. He
has had issues with theft and has had to chase children from the development to the north
off his property. He understands that the property needs to be developed but asked that it
be developed at estate density. If there are five or six teenagers in a home, they will have
five or six cars, which will add to traffic concerns. He believes that retaining lower-density
zoning would address traffic, safety, and flood mitigation concerns.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the RM-8 Zone would allow for higher-density buildings like
condominiums on the property due to the amount of unusable land. Mr. Prestwich clarified
that both townhomes and condominiums are permitted in the zone, and the density is based
on gross acreage. Townhomes include private backyard requirements. An apartment
complex would not be allowed in the zone, but a condominium project that meets the
requirements of the ordinance would have to be approved. If the Planning Commission was
concerned about condominiums, they could recommend approval of the rezoning request
with the stipulation that an SD be created to limit development to townhomes only. That
would be consistent with developments to the north and south.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich stated that the creek
would count toward the 30% open space requirement, but the roads would not.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the maximum
building height in all residential zones is 35 feet or two-and-one-half stories. In response to
his follow-up question, Mr. Cassell reported that 11800 South will be considered as part of
the Transportation Master Plan update. Staff will coordinate with UDOT, but it is not a state
road. It is jointly owned by Riverton and South Jordan.

Commissioner Cluff stated that traffic on 11800 South has been very heavy lately, possibly
due to construction in other areas of the City, and asked if Staff expected the situation to
improve once construction is complete. Mr. Cassell stated Staff’s expectation and hope was
that it would return to functional operation in the near future. However, growth to the west
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                           9
May 8, 2025


is creating impacts on 12600 South, 13400 South, and 11800 South, and they are trying to
determine what needs to be done to ensure proper traffic flow.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-25-2004, “Priority Builders Rezone,” by changing the
General Plan Designation to Medium High-Density Residential (five to eight dwelling
units per acre) and Rezone the subject properties to RM-8 (multi-family residential,
eight dwelling units per acre), and that a Special District be required to ensure that
only townhomes are constructed on the property. Commissioner Rushton seconded
the motion. The motion passed with unanimous consent of the Commission.



4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

5.    MINUTES

      A.     MINUTES APPROVAL – APRIL 24, 2025.

Commissioner _________ moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes of April 24, 2025, as reported. Chair Park
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:54 PM.
 Received
   Public
Comment
Public Comment #1




I received the notice for the change in zoning for the property near the corner of 118th
South and Redwood rd by Scott Yermish and Priority Builders. They are looking to
rezone the property to a high density residential zoning.

My Comments:
I have lived in this area for 45 plus years, I am not in favor of this rezoning
application and I recommend that it be denied. While I am in favor of development
and progress, this kind of zoning has to be considered against the surrounding area
and its zoning, along with how it might change the valuations and working use of
the neighbors. High Density housing is good for cities to utilize but only in specific
areas where the ratio works to maintain current uses for other property owners in the
area. There is already multiple high density developments in this area, more than
should be, when compared to the existing zoning of the area. Its too much for this
small area where there are already high density developments in place.



_______________________
Sterling C. Jack
sterling@sterlingjack.com
Phone: 801-573-8777
Public Comment #2


Dear Planning Commission and Planning and Zoning Division Staff,

First and foremost, allow me to say thank you for your service to our city. I served
as a planning commissioner in the city of Draper from 2009-2013 and faced many
of the same and similar challenges that you do today. My family and I relocated to
Riverton in 2017, primarily for the agricultural, rural-but-not-remote, homely feel
of the city, as well as the balanced mix of both residential and commercial
properties. We reside at 2425 W. Victorian Way in Riverton, approximately one
mile west of the application's subject property and in an RR-22 zone. Although
outside of the statutorily-mandated 1,000-foot notification area, ourselves and
our neighborhood stand to be significantly impacted by the Priority Builders
Rezone request, application number PLZ-25-4004.

Regarding the above-referenced application for General Plan amendment and
rezone, I have several points I request you consider in deciding a
recommendation to forward to the city council. The proposed change from R-4
Residential (four [4] lots per acre), RR-22 Residential (two [2] lots per acre), and
Gateway Commercial (which has a key directive to "incorporate a formal entry
into Riverton" and has the architectural standard of "[a] minimum of three turn-
of-the-century features [to] be used in all developments"; see Riverton City Code
[RCC] Chapter 18.70.060) to RM-14-D Residential (14 units per acre) is
consequential. At 4.28 acres, the number of allowable residential units would
increase from 8-10 (nominal) to nearly 60, with almost no remaining potential for
commercial development. Assuming an average of two (2) vehicles per unit
(which is conservative, given the size of Utah families), that would result in nearly
120 new vehicles ingressing from and egressing onto Redwood Road and Myers
Lane (i.e. 11800 S) on a daily basis. Traffic and infrastructure impacts are one of
the main items to be considered in any rezone application; and, given the already-
stressed nature of the Redwood Road/Myers Lane intersection, this is likely a
failing proposal. At the least, the planning commission should request the
applicant submit a traffic impact study, prepared by a qualified transportation
engineer, and the results of that study should be available for review by the public
and should be considered by staff, the commission and the council prior to
approving a rezone.
The loss of a Gateway Commercial-zoned property is also concerning, particularly
considering the location of the proposed parcel rezone - at Riverton's northern
boundary on Redwood Road. The "Gateway", as plainly stated in RCC
Ch.18.70.010, is "any property aligned with main arteries, such as Redwood
Road and 12600 South, at or near entrances to the city" (emphasis added). That
zone was created for a reason, and such change as proposed to higher-density
residential should not be taken lightly. Although the developer may have plans, a
layout, architectural standards, etc. for the property post-zone-change, a change
in zone by itself neither mandates nor encumbers that parcel with any such
obligations. It simply changes the zoning designation; which, in this case, could
result in nearly 60 new residential units on an already-stressed intersection. The
city cannot condition a rezone on a certain site plan or development
commitments, and this has long been a known issue and challenge with these
types of requests.

Finally, the commission should consider the economics - both benefits and
impacts - of the requested rezone. The gain of additional residents (i.e. taxpayers)
at the cost of losing valuable and unique Gateway Commercial property (i.e.
future businesses) may not be completely offsetting - is this indeed in the public
interest and welfare of the city of Riverton? Perhaps, but it is unclear. When taken
together with potential future road and infrastructure improvements necessary to
accommodate the proposed zone, the city may be absorbing long-term costs at
the expense of all taxpayers, not just those in the rezoned development.

To be clear, I am not opposed to development of the subject parcel, and it is
entirely possible that development of the subject parcel at higher densities is
reasonable. However, this request needs to be thoughtfully considered, as the
impacts of such a request - specifically, traffic and the loss of a key commercial
parcel - may be significant. I plan to attend the scheduled public hearing, and I
would appreciate the opportunity to review the applicant's request and staff
report in advance if available. Please feel free to contact me with any questions.

Kind regards,

Ryan Clerico
2425 W. Victorian Way
Public Comment #3
Priority Builders Rezone


As a resident owner within 1000 feet of the requested rezoning for High Density
residential of the above subject parcels, please note I object to this rezoning. As
a Riverton resident & property owner I do not know how the city could justify this
rezoning to allow such high traffic increases, plus (I assume multi story condos or
townhomes) would greatly infringe on our neighboring privacy and safety.


Paula Roundy
11699 S Winford Dr.
Riverton, UT 84065
Public Comment 4


Hello--We are homeowners who live almost directly west of the property request for rezone. We have
seen many changes in the 36 years we have lived in our home. We live on an 1.25 acre of land--single
family home. Our perspective of the rezone application reflects our living with space. We do recognize
that space is getting more and more limited in the Salt Lake valley, but still believe it is a healthier
arrangement to have space between homes. People are more content and happy mentally and
emotionally.



We have concerns for the additional traffic coming onto 11800 S and Redwood road. 11800 S is
becoming a major E/W connector right at that intersection. Having additional traffic entering will have an
impact.



Another point to consider is Midas Creek. That creek runs through our neighborhood as well. A property
owner in our neighborhood tried to change the course of the creek to get more use out of the adjoining
land. The Army Corp of Engineers who are in control of that waterway, stepped in and forced the owner
to step down from changing it. We know that much of the acreage included in this 4.28 acres has Midas
Creek flowing through it--flood zoning is apart of that as well--leaving little land to build on. Hence why
there are only the 3 homes on that property now. Wouldn't it be nicer to leave the one parcel as green
space/ park for property owners close by to enjoy the waterway/nature? It would be an inviting space that
would be so appreciated.



To try and put additional homes on this acreage would be very limited. And certainly not to the 8 homes
per acre he is requesting--32 homes in the limited space available after waterway/flood zone is taken into
consideration--does not leave much to develop. And maybe ought to be considered on a parcel by parcel
basis--not the accumulated 4.28 total. That 4.28 acres does not represent 4.28 acres that can neatly be
cut up into 32 homes. Midas Creek and its floodplain prevent that. Rather placing a home here and there
where it can be used would be a more sensible use of the land. It would be so unwise to make this area
a subdivision



We as neighbors have to live with the additional population increase, whatever you decide--in our
schools, neighborhoods, churches, etc. Keeping single family homes is the preferred, and not to
subdivide property smaller and smaller forcing people to live in tight quarters. Makes for angry people
and neighbors.



Thanks for letting us express our concerns about this proposal.

Doug and Ilean Sullivan

11648 So. Ingot Way

South Jordan

ileansullivan@yahoo.com
