                            MEMORANDUM
 To:           Honorable Mayor and City Council
 From:         Planning Department
 Date:         October 21, 2025
 Subject:      Ordinance 25-23 “Auto Dealerships In C-G Zone Text Amendment,”,
               amending Sections 18.90.010 “Table of Commercial Uses” & 18.70.030
               “Conditional Uses” to allow “Auto Dealership (New or Used) as a Conditional
               Use in the Commercial Gateway Zone. Amendments Proposed by Riverton
               City.

 On September 25, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this text
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted to
recommend denial of the text amendment. The Commission’s recommended motion is below,
with a sample motion to approve included for convenience.

 I move the City Council DENY Ordinance 25-23, proposed amendment to the Riverton City
 Table of Commercial Uses and Section 18.70.030 allowing “Auto Dealerships (new or used)”
 as a Conditional Use in the C-G Zone.

 Sample Motion to Approve.
 I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 25-23, amending Section 18.90.010, “Riverton
 City Table of Commercial Uses”, and Section 18.70.030 “Conditional Uses” allowing “Auto
 Dealerships (new or used)” as a Conditional Use in the C-G Zone.

 Background
 This is a public hearing to consider proposed changes to Riverton City Code to make Auto
 Dealerships (New or used) a Conditional Use in the Commercial Gateway (C-G) Zone, and add
 conditions for auto dealerships in the C-G zoning chapter. These changes are proposed by
 Riverton City.

 The City’s Table of Commercial Uses found in Chapter 18.90 of Riverton City Code lists several
 uses and designates these uses The table lists several commercial uses and designates these
 uses as P- Permitted, C- Conditional, or NP- Not Permitted. One of the uses listed is “Auto
 Dealership (New or Used) as shown here:




 The land use ““Auto Dealership (New or Used)” is a Permitted in the C-R and PCC zones, and
 “Not Permitted” in the C-D, C-G, C-N, and C-PO Zones.
The proposed change would list Auto dealerships as Conditional in the C-G zone and add
conditions in the C-G Chapter.

The proposed conditions would limit Auto Dealerships to properties of at least one (1) acre with
frontage along 12600 South or the Bangerter Highway, with the amended language as follows;

      18.70.030 Conditional Uses. (In the Commercial Gateway Zone)
      The following uses isare conditional, and may be considered within the C-G zone; provided, that the regulations and intent
      of this zone are met:

               (1) Storage units (except on any property or development adjacent to or having access to 12600 South east of
               the Bangerter Highway).

               (2) Auto dealership (new or used) only on property (or combination of properties) of at least one (1) acre having
               frontage on 12600 South and/or the Bangerter Highway. Such use must be on a finished commercial site
               accompanied by approval of a Commercial Site Plan, and include permanent and compliant office/sales
               building(s).


The above proposed language is intended to limit the locations where the Auto Dealership use
could be allowed. Modifications to the draft language, including further limitations on location or
required conditions can be discussed. Unlike a rezone which changes the zoning of a specific
property, changing the Table of Uses applies to all the properties in the City with that zoning. In
this case, all property zoned C-G could apply for a Conditional Use to have an auto dealership.

The Planning Commission voted to recommend denial of this ordinance amendment. The sample
motion to approve included above is for convenience of the Council.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1. Proposed Changes to 189.90.010 Table of Commercial Uses, and 18.70.030
            Conditional Uses.
Proposed Changes to the C-G Zone


18.90.010 – Table of commercial uses.

                               LAND USE                                  C-D   C-G   C-N C-PO C-R   PCC
Apparel alteration and shoe repair                                       P      C    C    NP   P    P

Apparel and accessories retail and rental (apparel, accessories,
                                                                         P      P    NP   NP   P    P
tailoring, fur, shoes)

Artists and related services                                             C      C    NP   C    P    P

Assisted living facilities, nursing homes, residential care facilities   C      C    C    C    C    C

Auto parts retail                                                        C      C    NP   NP   P    P

Auto dealership (new or used)                                            NP    NPC   NP   NP   P    P




18.70.030 Conditional Uses. (In the Commercial Gateway Zone)
The following uses isare conditional, and may be considered within the C-G zone; provided, that
the regulations and intent of this zone are met:

(1) Storage units (except on any property or development adjacent to or having access to 12600
South east of the Bangerter Highway).

(2) Auto dealership (new or used) only on property (or combination of properties) of at least
one (1) acre having frontage on 12600 South and/or the Bangerter Highway. Such use must be
on a finished commercial site accompanied by approval of a Commercial Site Plan, and include
permanent and compliant office/sales building(s).
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             6
September 25, 2025


Commissioner Rushton stated that the Planning Commission considered a similar rezoning
application for a property at the intersection of 3600 West and 12600 South, which was
rezoned from C-PO to C-G. He believed that the C-G Zone was consistent with the area,
and rezoning would open the property to different types of businesses. He was in favor of
the request. Commissioner Matheson agreed with Commissioner Rushton, as he believed
the C-N Zone was too restrictive for the property. Chair Park agreed that rezoning the
property to C-G would provide an opportunity for many other types of businesses and flow
with the surrounding community.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-25-4006, “Walker Property Rezone,” by rezoning the
subject properties to C-G (Commercial Gateway Zone). Commissioner Cannon
seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Matheson-Yes, Commissioner
Beck-Yes, Commissioner Rushton-Yes, Chair Park-Yes, Commissioner Keele-Yes,
Commissioner Cannon-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

      D.     'TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES IN THE C-G ZONE,' PLZ-25-5008,
             RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND
             DEVELOPMENT CODE SECTIONS 18.90.010 (TABLE OF COMMERCIAL
             USES) AND 18.70.030 (CONDITIONAL USES, C-G ZONE), ALLOWING
             AND DEFINING CONDITIONS FOR 'AUTO DEALERSHIP (NEW OR USED)'
             AS A CONDITIONAL USE IN THE C-G ZONE.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and indicated that the amendment would add Auto
Dealership (new or used) to Riverton City Code 18.90.010, Table of Commercial Uses, and
the following language to 18.70.030, Conditional Uses:

      (2) Auto Dealership (new or used) only on property (or combination of properties) of
      at least one (1) acre having frontage on 12600 South and/or the Bangerter Highway.
      Such use must be on a finished commercial site, accompanied by approval of a
      Commercial Site Plan and include permanent and compliant office/sales building(s).

If approved as submitted, only the above conditions could be required. If the Planning
Commission was in favor of adding additional conditions, Mr. Prestwich suggested that the
item be continued to a future meeting to provide Staff time to draft the changes.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich reported that auto
dealerships are allowed in the Regional Commercial (C-R) Zone along 13400 South and
Bangerter Highway, as well as the Planned Commercial Center (PCC) Zone and some areas
of the SLR Master Development Zone. The subject property could not be rezoned to C-R
because that zone is intended for regional corridors and is not suitable for its location.

Commissioner Cannon stated that he is a partial owner of a property on 12600 South, and
as such, he must recuse himself from discussion and voting on the item.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 7
September 25, 2025


Chair Park stated that some vacant properties that are in the C-G Zone but abut residential
development would be affected if the Table of Commercial Uses was altered. A car
dealership would not be suitable for 1500 West beside the South Jordan Canal Trail or near
the golf course, for example. He was in favor of allowing auto dealerships along Bangerter
Highway but believed they would be out of place in areas of 12600 South and proposed that
the location be stricken from the proposed amendment.

Commissioner Matheson stated that he did not believe an auto dealership should be located
on such a small parcel and expressed concern about people test-driving cars in proximity to
the high school and elementary school. He was not in favor of making a decision that they
would later regret.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Kathrine Parnell spoke in opposition to the amendment. She believes it would open a can
of worms and allow the Use in higher-density areas. She approved of the business itself but
did not believe it was the right fit for the area.

Kristy Cox reiterated her earlier concern that there are too many similar businesses within a
few blocks of each other. She understood that it was a dealership and not a repair shop,
but the dealership would also perform repair services, and she believed it would place a
strain on similar existing businesses.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton noted that the Text Amendment would apply to the entire C-G Zone,
not a specific parcel, and changing the Table of Commercial Uses would allow auto
dealerships in other areas of the City. Unlike other nearby cities, the City Council did not
include auto dealerships in its Land Use Plan for this zone, but it does allow them in other
zones. He was not in favor of the amendment.

Commissioner Matheson felt bad for the Applicant who had purchased the land with the
intention of building an auto dealership. However, their intention did not mean it was right
for the City, and he believed the Planning Commission’s recommendation should be for
denial.

Chair Park stated that the Planning Commission prefers to move forward with good projects
and let the market decide on their success or failure, but their decision must be based on
what is best for the City and in agreement with the overall vision the City Council has created
for the community. He was only in favor of the amendment if 12600 South was removed
from the allowed locations.

Commissioner Rushton was in favor of recommending denial. The City Council could then
consider that recommendation and make a final determination.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               8
September 25, 2025


Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL of
Application PLZ-25-5008, “Auto Dealership in the C-G Zone Text Amendment.”
Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner
Matheson-Yes, Commissioner Beck-Yes, Commissioner Rushton-Yes, Commissioner
Keele-Yes, Chair Park-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       E.    'SITE PLAN LANDSCAPING STANDARDS', PLZ-25-5007, RIVERTON CITY
             IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
             CODE, SECTION 18.215.030, RELATING TO LANDSCAPING AND TREE
             STANDARDS.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the amendment would clean up
language in existing Site Plan Development Standards related to landscaping but would not
add additional regulations. He then reviewed the changes.

   •   All references to the City Council or Planning Commercial were replaced with “Land
       Use Authority.” The Planning Commission would have final approval of Landscaping
       Plans, but this change would ensure that City Code would not need to be amended
       in the future if the City Council designated a different Land Use Authority.

   •   Language was clarified to indicate that the standards apply to any nonresidential use,
       including commercial uses like churches or private schools in residential zones.

   •   References to the Street Tree Master Plan were removed. That plan was created by
       the Riverton City Tree Board, which was dissolved many years ago.

   •   The following specifications were added:
          o 20 trees per acre are required
          o Street trees must be at 25-foot intervals along the property frontage
          o City Staff will determine the required tree species based on growth
              characteristics and site conditions, but the Land Use Authority will have final
              approval.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the changes would not impact the Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District Water Efficiency Standards that had been adopted by the City.

In response to a question from Chair Park, it was reported that Riverton City’s Arborist is
Roman Williams. Chair Park stated that it was important to have a trained, qualified arborist
to consult on these issues.

Mr. Prestwich reported that Staff was working to update all sections of City Code. This
section was brought to his attention when a landscaping company requested a copy of the
Street Tree Master Plan.

Commissioner Matheson had reviewed the amendment and approved of the changes.
