EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
                      EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

Section 1: Term                                             1
Section 2: Duties and Authority                             1
Section 3: Compensation                                     2
Section 4: Health, Disability and Life Insurance Benefits   2
Section 5: Vacation, Sick, and Military Leave               3
Section 6: Phone Allowance                                  3
Section 7: Retirement                                       3
Section 8: General Business Expenses                        3
Section 9: Termination                                      4
Section 10: Severance                                       6
Section 11: Resignation                                     6
Section 12: Performance Evaluation                          6
Section 13: Hours of Work                                   6
Section 14: Outside Activities                              8
Section 15: Indemnification                                 8
Section 16: Bonding                                         9
Section 17: Other Terms and Conditions of Employment        9
Section 18: Notices                                         9
Section 19: General Provisions                              9
                          EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
       This Employment Agreement (“Agreement”) is made and entered into this _____
day of ______________, 2023, by and between Riverton City Corporation, a Utah
Municipal Corporation (the “City”), and Mr. Kevin Hicks (“Mr. Hicks” or “Employee”), an
individual who has education, training and experience in local government
management.

                                      RECITALS

   A. The City desires to enter into an employment agreement with Mr. Hicks whereby
      he will serve the City as the City Manager of Riverton City, as provided by Title 2,
      Chapter 15 of the Riverton City Code, and in accord with Riverton City’s
      employment description with the office of City Manager.

   B. The City’s Governing Body, including the City Mayor, desires to establish by
      execution of this Agreement the City Manager’s employment salary, benefits, and
      establish certain terms and conditions of employment in a manner consistent with
      Riverton City Code and the associated employment description for the City
      Manager.

   C. The City’s Governing Body desires to (1) secure and retain the services of the
      City Manager and to provide inducement for him to remain in such employment;
      (2) to make possible full work productivity by assuring the City Manager’s morale
      and peace of mind with respect to future security; and (3) to provide a just means
      for terminating the City Manager’s services at such time as he may be unable to
      fully discharge his duties or when the City may otherwise desire to terminate his
      employment; and

       WHEREAS, Mr. Hicks desires to commence employment as City Manager of
said Riverton City;

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained,
the parties hereby agree as follows:

                                     AGREEMENT

Section 1: Term

This Agreement shall become effective on the date it is approved and executed by all
parties hereto. This Agreement shall expire upon the sooner of: 1) July 1, 2031 at 5:00
pm; 2) Termination according to Section 9; or 3) Resignation according to Section 11.

Section 2: Duties and Authority

The City agrees to employ Mr. Hicks as City Manager to perform the functions and
duties specified in the City Manager Job Description and Title 2, Chapter 15 of the


                                            1
Riverton City Employment Agreement
Kevin Hicks, City Manager

Riverton City Code, and to perform other legally permissible and proper duties and
functions as the Council shall, from time-to-time assign. Mr. Hicks shall serve as the
Chief Administrative Officer of Riverton City and shall be responsible for overseeing the
daily operations of all City departments. All City employees, including department
heads, shall be responsible to the City Manager.

To facilitate the orderly and efficient implementation of City objectives and policy, the
City Council agrees to a principle of noninterference in Mr. Hicks’ administration of City
operations. The City Council agrees and will ensure that individual Directors direct their
business-related concerns and communications through Mr. Hicks or those he
expressly designates to liaison with the City Council. Mr. Hicks agrees that such
restriction does not apply to those within the City who already possess direct reporting
responsibilities to the City Council such as the City Attorney, City Treasurer, or potential
internal auditors. This provision will not prevent the City Council from engaging in non-
disruptive or casual communication with City directors or employees in the performance
of their respective duties. Requests for information which require any significant
amount of time to produce must be approved by Mr. Hicks. Mr. Hicks shall advise the
Mayor and Council on matters of policy, procedure, operations, and business affecting
the City.

Section 3: Compensation

   A. Base Salary: The City agrees to pay Mr. Hicks an annual base salary of One
       Hundred Eighty Thousand Dollars and 00 cents ($180,000.00), or an hourly rate
       of $86.54, less federal and state withholdings and other standard employee
       deductions, and payable in installments in accordance with the usual payroll
       practice of the City at the same time that the other employees of the City are
       paid. Mr. Hicks’ salary shall accrue on the date of April 27, 2024, less amounts
       already paid to Mr. Hicks for his employment as Administrative Services Director.

   B. This Agreement shall be automatically amended to reflect any salary adjustments
      that are provided or required by the City's compensation policies, i.e.,
      performance pay, market adjustments, cost of living adjustments, etc., after
      following public hearing requirements under Utah law. Foregoing
      notwithstanding, Mr. Hicks is not eligible to receive any increase to salary before
      November 30, 2024, whereupon he shall receive a 3% merit increase. Beginning
      July 1, 2025, and thereafter Employee is eligible to receive compensation
      increases with satisfactory performance of this duties (whether by pay for
      performance, COLA adjustments, bonuses, or other compensation increases) in
      amounts comparable to increases afforded to City executive employees.


Section 4: Health, Disability and Life Insurance Benefits

   A. The City agrees to provide and to pay the premiums for health, dental, life and
       vision insurance for Mr. Hicks and his/her dependents, equal to that which is
       provided to all other employees of the City.

   B. The City agrees to put into force and to make required premium payments for


                                             2
Riverton City Employment Agreement
Kevin Hicks, City Manager

      long term disability coverage and additional life insurance for Mr. Hicks, in an
      amount equal to that which is provided to all other employees of the City.

Section 5: Vacation, Sick, and Military Leave

   A. Mr. Hicks shall maintain leave rates and balances under the Riverton City
      Policies and Procedures Manual, accrued by Mr. Hicks under his prior
      employment with Riverton City as its Administrative Services Director.
      Therefore, on the effective date of this Agreement, Mr. Hicks shall be designated
      as a level 3 employee for purposes of calculating leave benefits under the
      Riverton City Employee Policies and Procedures Manual. Mr. Hicks shall accrue
      sick and vacation leave on an annual basis at the rate provided to any other
      employees in accordance with established policy and procedure.

   B. Mr. Hicks is entitled to accrue all unused leave according to established policy
      and procedures. In the event that Mr. Hicks’ employment is terminated, either
      with or without cause as described in Section 9, Mr. Hicks shall be compensated
      for all accrued vacation time to date of termination.

   C. Mr. Hicks shall be entitled to military reserve leave time pursuant to state law and
      the City’s policy.

Section 6: Phone Allowance

The City will provide Mr. Hicks with a cellular telephone allowance in an amount
consistent with current City Policies.

Section 7: Retirement

Subject to URS guidelines, the City agrees to enroll Mr. Hicks in the Utah Retirement
System (URS) and to make all the appropriate contributions on Mr. Hicks’ behalf upon
Mr. Hicks’ request. City shall require Mr. Hicks’ assistance to determine whether Mr.
Hicks qualifies as a tier 1 or tier 2 employee under URS guidelines, and Mr. Hicks
agrees to cooperate with the City to ensure Mr. Hicks is properly enrolled. Subject to
URS guidelines, Mr. Hicks may at his sole discretion opt out of URS, in which case the
City agrees to contribute to a 401 (k) account of Mr. Hicks’ choosing in an amount equal
to the URS contribution that would have otherwise been made by the City.

Section 8: General Business Expenses

   A. The City agrees to budget for and to pay for professional dues and subscriptions
      of Mr. Hicks that are necessary for continuation and full participation in national,
      regional, state, and local associations, and organizations necessary and
      desirable for Mr. Hicks’ continued professional participation, growth, and
      advancement, and for the good of the City. An example of such associations
      shall include the “Utah City/County Management Association” and the Utah
      Government Finance Officers Association.

   B. The City agrees to budget for and to pay for travel and subsistence expenses of


                                            3
Riverton City Employment Agreement
Kevin Hicks, City Manager

      Mr. Hicks for professional and official travel, meetings, and occasions to
      adequately continue the professional development of Mr. Hicks and to pursue
      necessary official functions for the City, including but not limited to the Utah City
      Management Association conferences, the Utah League of Cities and Towns
      conventions, and such other national, regional, state, and local governmental
      groups and committees in which Mr. Hicks serves as a member.

   C. The City also agrees to budget for and to pay for travel and subsistence
      expenses of Mr. Hicks for short courses, institutes, and seminars that are
      necessary for Mr. Hicks’ professional development and for the good of the City.

   D. The City recognizes that certain expenses of a non-personal but job-related
      nature are incurred by Mr. Hicks and agrees to reimburse or to pay said general
      expenses. The Finance Division is authorized to disburse such money upon
      receipt of duly executed expense or petty cash vouchers, receipts, statements or
      personal affidavits.

   E. The City acknowledges the value of having Mr. Hicks participate and be directly
      involved in local civic clubs or organizations that may benefit the City.
      Accordingly, the City shall pay for the reasonable membership fees and/or dues
      to enable Mr. Hicks to become an active member of local civic clubs or
      organizations, wherein such membership may be of benefit to the City.

   F. The City shall provide Mr. Hicks with a computer, software, and other necessary
      equipment required for Mr. Hicks to perform the job and to maintain
      communication.

Section 9: Termination

Mr. Hicks is an “at-will” employee of the City, whose employment may be terminated at
any time with or without cause by the Governing Body of the City. Mr. Hicks’ base pay
shall be discontinued upon termination without additional compensation owed to Mr.
Hicks, other than for hours worked and unpaid up to the date of termination. Additional
compensation due Mr. Hicks upon termination, if any, shall be limited to severance pay
defined in Section 10.

For the purpose of this Agreement, termination without cause shall occur when:

   A. A majority of the governing body votes to terminate Mr. Hicks at a duly
      authorized public meeting under circumstances not amounting to termination with
      cause.

   B. If the City, its citizens or the Utah legislature acts to amend any provisions of Title
      2, Chapter 15 of the Riverton City Code pertaining to the role, powers, duties,
      authority, responsibilities of Mr. Hicks’ position that substantially changes the
      form of government, Mr. Hicks shall have the right to declare that such
      amendments constitute termination. Foregoing notwithstanding, in the event that
      the Governing body elects, by adoption of an ordinance, to empower the Mayor
      with sole authority to terminate Mr. Hicks’ employment, adoption of such an

                                             4
Riverton City Employment Agreement
Kevin Hicks, City Manager

      ordinance shall not be deemed to have substantially changed the form of
      government, and Mr. Hicks shall not have the right to declare termination without
      cause.

   C. If the City reduces the base salary, compensation or any other financial benefit of
      Mr. Hicks, unless it is applied in no greater percentage than the average
      reduction of all department heads, such action shall be regarded as a
      termination.

   D. If the Governing Body fails to renew the Agreement before expiration of the
      same, on substantially the same terms stated in the Agreement prior to
      expiration, Mr. Hicks shall have the right to declare a termination as of the date
      the Agreement expires.

For the purpose of this Agreement, termination with cause shall occur when:

   A. Employee is convicted of a public offense which is punishable as a class B
      misdemeanor. This provision shall not apply to traffic offenses which are
      punishable as a class B misdemeanor, unless the offense involves alcohol, a
      controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance as an element of
      the public offense, such as (without limitation) driving under the influence of
      alcohol or controlled substance/controlled substance metabolite.

   B. Employee is convicted of any public offence, whether related to traffic regulations
      or not, which is punishable as a class A misdemeanor, a felony, or other crime
      involving moral turpitude.

   C. Employee has inappropriately used narcotics or alcohol in violation of the City’s
      Drug and Alcohol Testing/Drug Free Workplace Policy, or state or federal law.

   D. Employee has Breached a material term of this Agreement or has refused to
      substantially perform his obligations and duties under this Agreement (except by
      reason of incapacity due to illness or accident) and he:

      1. has failed to remedy the alleged breach caused by such conduct within 30
         days from the date written notice is given by the City demanding that he
         remedy the alleged breach caused by such conduct, or

      2. has failed to take reasonable steps in good faith to achieve a remedy during
         such 30-day period; if a remedy is not reasonably achievable within the 30-
         day period, City will deliver to Employee a certified copy of a resolution of the
         Governing Body, taken at a public meeting of the Governing Body at which
         Employee, together with his counsel, is given the opportunity to be heard,
         finding that Employee was guilty of refusing to substantially perform his
         obligations and duties under this Agreement and specifying the details
         thereof, and that Employee has failed to take reasonable steps in good faith
         to remedy the alleged breach caused by such conduct;

   E. Employee has committed or aided and abetted willful fraud or defalcation, either

                                            5
Riverton City Employment Agreement
Kevin Hicks, City Manager

       of which involved funds or other assets of the City.

   F. Employee has committed malfeasance in office or willful or wanton neglect of
       duty.

Section 10: Severance

In the event that this Agreement terminates without cause, as described in Section 9 or
if Mr. Hicks declares termination under circumstances permitted in Section 9, Mr. Hicks
shall be entitled to severance pay. For the purposes of this Agreement, severance pay
is defined as base salary multiplied by an equivalent number of years of service, in the
following order: five (5) years until July 1, 2025; four (4) years from July 2, 2025 until
July 1, 2026; three (3) years from July 2, 2026 until July 1, 2027; two (2) years from July
2, 2027 until July 1, 2028; one year from July 2, 2028 until July 1, 2029; and six (6)
months thereafter. In addition, Mr. Hicks is entitled to accrued vacation leave, paid in a
lump sum, and continuation of all benefits except leave accruals and payment of URS-
related retirement benefits, for a period equal to the number of months’ severance pay
which Mr. Hicks is eligible to receive upon termination.

Section 11: Resignation

In the event that Mr. Hicks voluntarily resigns his/her position with the Employer, Mr.
Hicks shall provide a minimum of 30 days’ notice unless the parties agree otherwise.

Section 12: Performance Evaluation

The Governing Body of the City shall annually (on or within 15 days of each anniversary
date following the effective date of this Agreement) review the performance of Mr.
Hicks. The performance review process shall at a minimum include the opportunity for
the Governing Body and Mr. Hicks to: (1) each prepare a written evaluation; (2) meet
and discuss the evaluation; and (3) present a written summary of the evaluation results.

Annually, the City and Mr. Hicks shall define such goals and performance objectives
which they determine necessary for the proper operation of the City and the attainment
of the City’s policy objectives. The City shall further establish a relative priority among
those various goals and objectives. The goals should be realistically attainable within
the limitations as specified and, if needed in order to accomplish said goals, additional
funding should be considered and provided by the Council in the annual adoption of its
municipal budget, or in any amendments thereto.

Section 13: Hours of Work

It is recognized that Mr. Hicks is an educated and trained professional and as such,
consistent with the nature of the requirements of the position of City Manager, working
hours will vary. It is understood that Mr. Hicks must devote a great deal of time outside
of normal office hours attending to the business of the City. Mr. Hicks shall be allowed
to schedule time as he or she deems appropriate to accommodate the varying demands
of such job required activities and evening meetings, Council meetings, legislative
lobbying activities, and necessary weekend and holiday work.

                                             6
Riverton City Employment Agreement
Kevin Hicks, City Manager




                                     7
Riverton City Employment Agreement
Kevin Hicks, City Manager

Section 14: Outside Activities

The employment provided for by this Agreement shall be Mr. Hicks’ sole employment.
Recognizing that certain outside accounting services, consulting or teaching
opportunities provide indirect benefits to the City and the community, Mr. Hicks may
elect to accept limited accounting services, teaching, consulting or other business
opportunities with the understanding that such arrangements shall neither constitute
interference with nor a conflict of interest with Mr. Hicks’ responsibilities under this
Agreement. All determinations made regarding Mr. Hicks’ acceptance of other
employment or business opportunities are subject to regulation under Riverton City
Code, Title 2, Chapter 120. The acceptance of professional work by Mr. Hicks in
compliance with Riverton City Code shall not, per se, be construed as a breach of this
Agreement; provided, however that the acceptance of such work does not present a
conflict of interest or otherwise interfere with Mr. Hicks' fulfillment of his duties as
Riverton's City Manager.

Section 15: Indemnification

Beyond that required under Federal, State or Local Law, the City shall defend, hold
harmless and indemnify Mr. Hicks against any tort, professional liability claim, demand
or other legal action, whether groundless or otherwise, arising out of an alleged act or
omission occurring in the performance of Mr. Hicks’ duties as City Manager or resulting
from the exercise of judgment or discretion in connection with the performance of
program duties or responsibilities, unless the act or omission involved willful, wanton, or
intentional conduct on the part of Mr. Hicks. In the event a conflict of interest arises in
the City’s defense of Mr. Hicks, Mr. Hicks may to retain independent legal
representation at the City’s expense, and the City may not unreasonably withhold
approval of such representation. Legal representation, provided by the City for Mr.
Hicks, shall extend until a final determination of the legal action including any appeals
brought by either party. The City shall indemnify Mr. Hicks against any and all losses,
damages, judgments, interest, settlements, fines, court costs and other reasonable
costs and expenses of legal proceedings including attorneys’ fees, and any other
liabilities incurred by, imposed upon, or suffered by Mr. Hicks in connection with or
resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding, actual or threatened, arising out of
or in connection with the performance of his or her duties. Any settlement of any claim
must be made with prior approval of the City in order for indemnification, as provided in
this Section, to be available.

Mr. Hicks recognizes that the City shall have the right to compromise and unless Mr.
Hicks is a party to the suit, Mr. Hicks shall not have veto authority over the settlement or
settle any claim or suit unless said compromise or settlement is of a personal nature to
Mr. Hicks. Further, the City agrees to pay all reasonable litigation expenses of Mr. Hicks
throughout the pendency of any litigation to which Mr. Hicks is a party, witness or
advisor to the City. Such expense payments shall continue beyond Mr. Hicks' service to
the City as long as litigation is pending. Further, the City agrees to pay Mr. Hicks
reasonable consulting fees and travel expenses when, after terminating employment,
Mr. Hicks serves as a witness, advisor or consultant to the City regarding pending
litigation.


                                             8
Riverton City Employment Agreement
Kevin Hicks, City Manager

Section 16: Bonding

The City shall bear the full cost of any fidelity or other bonds required of Mr. Hicks under
any law or ordinance.

Section 17: Other Terms and Conditions of Employment

The City, only upon agreement with Mr. Hicks, shall fix any such other terms and
conditions of employment, as it may determine from time to time, relating to the
performance of Mr. Hicks, provided such terms and conditions are not inconsistent with
or in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement, City ordinance or any other law.
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Mr. Hicks shall be entitled to the
benefits that are enjoyed by other appointed employees, department heads or general
employees of the City as provided in Riverton City’s Policies and Procedures.

Section 18: Notices

Notice pursuant to this Agreement shall be given by depositing in the custody of the
United States Postal Service, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:



   1) THE CITY:             Riverton City Mayor and Council
                            12830 South 1700 West
                            Riverton, Utah 84065

   2) EMPLOYEE:             Kevin Hicks
                            [Address to be determined, submitted to City in writing, and
                            attached to this Agreement.]


Alternatively, notice required pursuant to this Agreement may be personally served in
the same manner as is applicable to the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure. Notice shall be
deemed given as of the date of personal service or as the date of deposit of such
written notice in the course of transmission in the United States Postal Service. In the
event either party changes addresses, notification of the other party of the changed
address shall be given in accordance with this section.

Section 19: General Provisions

   A. Integration. This Agreement sets forth and establishes the entire understanding
       between the City and Mr. Hicks relating to the employment of Mr. Hicks by the
       City. Any prior discussions or representations by or between the parties are
       merged into and rendered null and void by this Agreement. The parties by mutual
       written agreement may amend any provision of this Agreement during the life of
       the Agreement. Such amendments shall be incorporated and made a part of this
       Agreement.

   B. Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding on the City and Mr. Hicks as well

                                             9
Riverton City Employment Agreement
Kevin Hicks, City Manager

      as their heirs, assigns, executors, personal representatives, and successors in
      interest.

   C. Severability. The invalidity or partial invalidity of any portion of this Agreement will
      not affect the validity of any other provision. If any provision of this Agreement is
      held to be invalid, the remaining provisions shall be deemed to be in full force
      and effect as if they have been executed by both parties subsequent to the
      expungement or judicial modification of the invalid provision.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE City of Riverton has caused this agreement to be signed
and executed in its behalf by its Mayor and duly attested by its City Recorder and Mr.
Hicks has signed and executed this agreement, both in duplicate, as of the day and
year first above written.




Trent Staggs, Mayor                                Kevin Hicks, Employee



ATTEST:



Jamie Larsen, City Recorder




                                             10
