(UT Jan2020 - NoAdvRfnd)                                                             Louis Lopez
Account #:38231166008                                                                 C/C: 11431
Service ID #:065469234003                                                     Request #: 6935236
Monthly                                                                         Contract #:

                              GENERAL SERVICE CONTRACT
                                  (1000 KVA OR LESS)
                                        between
                               ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
                                          and
                                  CITY OF RIVERTON


This General Service Contract (“Contract”), dated November 3, 2020, is between Rocky
Mountain Power, an unincorporated division of PacifiCorp (“Company”), and City of Riverton
(“Customer”), for electric service for Customer’s water vault operation at or near 4510 W 11880
S. Riverton, Utah.

Company's filed tariffs (the “Electric Service Schedules” and the “Electric Service Regulations”)
and the rules of the Utah Public Service Commission (“Commission”), as they may be amended
from time to time, regulate this Contract and are incorporated in this Contract. In the event of
any conflict between this Contract and the Electric Service Schedules or the Electric Service
Regulations, such schedule and rules shall control. They are available for review at Customer’s
request.

1.    Delivery of Power. Company will provide 120/240 volt, single-phase electric service to
      the Customer facilities.

2.    Contract Demand. The demand in kVA that Customer requires to meet its load
      requirement and Company agrees to supply and have available for delivery to
      Customer, shall be 3 kVA (diversified, based on Customer's submitted load prior to
      the signing of this Contract)(the “Contract Demand”).

      After 36 months of service the Company may reduce Contract Demand to the
      maximum recorded and billed demand in the previous 36 months. The reduction in
      Contract Demand shall become effective thirty (30) days after the Company provides
      notice.

      Within fifteen (15) days of Customer’s written request for capacity above the Contract
      Demand, Company shall advise Customer in writing whether the additional power and
      energy is currently available, or if not currently available, initiate the processes to
      determine the costs to make it available.

3.    Extension Costs. Company agrees to invest $179.20 (the “Extension Allowance”) to
      fund a portion of the cost of the improvements (the “Improvements”) as per tariff.
      Customer agrees to pay Company the estimated construction costs in excess of the
      Extension Allowance (“Customer Advance”) in the amount of $5,417.80, of which the
      Customer has paid $0.00 for engineering, design, or other advance payment for
      Company’s facilities. The balance due is $5,417.80.


                                           1 of 6
     Customer provided trenching, conduit, vault and/or right-of-way (“TCVR”), when
     provided for Company lines and equipment, may be subject to refund as calculated
     using Company standard costs. As per tariff the refund will be 20% of the calculated
     cost for shared facilities. This extension has no potential TCVR refunds.

4.   Contract Minimum Billing. Customer agrees to pay a contract minimum billing (the
     “Contract Minimum Billing”) during the first sixty (60) months beginning from the date
     Company is ready to supply service. The Contract Minimum Billing shall be the greater
     of: (1) the Customer’s monthly bill; or, (2) $15.78 (the monthly facilities charge) plus
     eighty percent (80%) of the Customer’s monthly bill. Billings will be based on Rate
     Schedule No. 23 and superseding schedules.

5.   Effective. This Contract will expire unless Customer signs and returns an original of this
     Contract along with any required payment to Company within ninety (90) days of the
     Contract date shown on page 1 of this Contract.

6.   Contract Minimum Billing Term. This Contract becomes binding when both
     Company and Customer have signed it, and will remain in effect for five (5) years
     following the date when Company is ready to supply service (the “Term”).

     In the event Customer terminates service or defaults (which results in termination of
     service) within the first five (5) years of this Contract, Customer shall be responsible for
     paying the Contract Minimum Billing for the remainder of the Term.

     If Customer is not ready to receive service from Company within one-hundred fifty (150)
     days of the date Customer signs this Contract, then Company may terminate this
     Contract. The Customer’s Advance will be applied to Company costs incurred for
     design, permitting and other associated Contract costs. However, if Company has
     installed Improvements so that Company is ready to supply service, but Customer is
     not ready to receive service from Company within such one-hundred fifty (150) day
     period, then the failure of Customer to receive service may be treated as a Customer
     default, and Customer shall be responsible for paying the Contract Minimum Billing for
     remainder of the Term.

7.   Customer Obligations. Customer agrees to:
     a)   Provide legal rights-of-way to Company, at no cost to Company, using Company’s
          standard forms. This includes rights-of-way on Customer’s property and/or third
          party property and any permits, fees, etc. required to cross public lands;
     b)   Prepare the route to Company’s specifications;
     c)   Install all Customer provided trench, conduit, equipment foundations, or
          excavations for equipment foundations within the legal rights-of-ways; and,
     d)   Comply with all of Company’s tariffs, procedures, specifications and requirements.

8.   Special Provisions: None

9.   Underground Facilities. If service is provided by an underground line extension,
     Customer will provide, or Company will provide at Customer’s expense: all trenching

                                           2 of 6
      and backfilling, imported backfill material, conduit and duct, and furnish and install all
      equipment foundations, as designed by Company. Company may abandon in place
      any underground cables installed under this Contract that are no longer useful to
      Company.

      Customer warrants that all Customer provided trench and excavations for equipment
      foundations, and Customer installed conduit and equipment foundations are installed
      within legal rights-of-way, and conform to the specifications in Company’s Electric
      Service Requirements Manual, and other specifications as otherwise provided by
      Company. In the event Customer fails to comply with the foregoing, Customer shall be
      liable for the cost to Company for relocating the facilities within a legal right-of-way,
      acquiring right-of-way for Company facilities, repair or replacement of improperly
      installed conduit or foundations, and paying costs for damages that may arise to any
      third party as a result of Company facilities being located outside of a legal right-of-way.
      The provisions of this paragraph 9 shall survive the termination of this Contract.

10.   Design, Construction, Ownership and Operation. Company shall design, construct,
      install, and operate the Improvements in accordance with Company’s standards.
      Company will own the Improvements, together with Company’s existing electric utility
      facilities that serve or will serve Customer. Construction of the Improvements shall not
      begin until (1) both Company and Customer have executed (signed) this Contract, and
      (2) all other requirements prior to construction have been fulfilled, such as permits,
      payments received, inspection, etc. Any delays by the Customer concerning site
      preparation and right-of-way acquisition or trenching, inspection, permits, etc. may
      correspondingly delay completion of the Improvements.

      Company warrants that its work in constructing and maintaining the Improvements shall
      be consistent with prudent utility practices. COMPANY DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER
      WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
      WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR PARTICULAR PURPOSE,
      AND SIMILAR WARRANTIES. Company’s liability for breach of warranty, defects in
      the Improvements, or installation of the Improvements shall be limited to repair or
      replacement of any non-operating or defective portion of the Improvements or
      Company’s other electric utility facilities. Under no circumstances shall Company be
      liable for other economic losses, including but not limited to consequential damages.
      Company shall not be subject to any liability or damages for inability to provide service
      to the extent that such failure shall be due to causes beyond the reasonable control of
      Company.

      No other party, including Customer, shall have the right to operate or maintain
      Company’s electric utility facilities or the Improvements. Customer shall not have
      physical access to Company’s electric utility facilities or the Improvements and shall
      engage in no activities on or related to Company’s electric utility facilities or the
      Improvements.

11.   Payments. All bills shall be paid by the date specified on the bill, and late charges
      shall be imposed upon any delinquent amounts. Company reserves the right to require
      customer payments be sent by EDI or wire transfer. If Customer disputes any portion
      of Customer's bill, Customer shall pay the total bill and shall designate the disputed

                                            3 of 6
      portion. Company shall decide the dispute within sixty (60) days after Customer's notice
      of dispute. Any refund Company determines Customer is due shall bear interest at the
      rate then specified by the Commission or, if no rate is specified, the then effective prime
      rate as quoted in The Wall Street Journal.

      Company may request deposits from Customer to the extent permitted under the
      applicable Electric Service Regulations and the applicable Electric Service Schedule.
      In the event of a default by Customer in any of its obligations, Company may exercise
      any or all of its rights and remedies with respect to any such deposits.

12.   Furnishing Information and Deposits. Customer represents that all information it has
      furnished or shall furnish to Company in connection with this Contract shall be accurate
      and complete in all material respects. Company will base its decision with respect to
      credit, deposits, allowances or any other material matter on information furnished under
      this section by Customer. Should such information be inaccurate or incomplete,
      Company shall have the right to revoke or modify this Contract and/or its decision to
      reflect the determination Company would have made had Company received accurate
      and complete information. Company may request deposits, for the purpose of
      guaranteeing payment of electric service bills, as permitted under the Company’s Utah
      Electric Service Regulation No. 9.

13.   Governing Law; Venue. All provisions of this Contract and the rights and obligations
      of the parties hereto shall in all cases be governed by and construed in accordance with
      the laws of the State of Utah applicable to contracts executed in and to be wholly
      performed in Utah by persons domiciled in the State of Utah. Each party hereto agrees
      that any suit, action or proceeding in connection with this Contract may only be brought
      before the Commission, the Federal courts located within the State of Utah, or state
      courts of the State of Utah, and each party hereby consents to the exclusive jurisdiction
      of such forums (and of the appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or
      proceeding.

14. Assignment. The obligations under this Contract are obligations at all times of
      Customer, and may not be assigned without Company’s consent except in connection
      with a sale, assignment, lease or transfer of Customer’s interest in Customer’s facility.
      Any such assignment also shall be subject to (i) such successor’s qualification as a
      customer under Company’s policies, the Electric Service Regulations, and the
      applicable Electric Service Schedule, and (ii) such successor being bound by this
      Contract and assuming the obligation of Customer from the date of assignment, which
      may be evidenced by written agreement of such successor or other means acceptable
      to Company. Company may condition this assignment by the posting by the successor
      of a deposit as permitted under the applicable Electric Service Regulations and the
      applicable Electric Service Schedule.

      Company may at any time assign its rights and delegate its obligations under this
      Contract to any: affiliate; successor in interest; corporation; or any other business entity
      in conjunction with a merger, consolidation or other business reorganization to which
      Company is a party.



                                            4 of 6
     15.     Remedies; Waiver. Either party may exercise any or all of its rights and remedies
             under this Contract, the applicable Electric Service Regulations, the applicable Electric
             Service Schedule and under any applicable laws, rules and regulations. No provision
             of this Contract, the Electric Service Regulations, or the applicable Electric Service
             Schedule shall be deemed to have been waived unless such waiver is expressly stated
             in writing and signed by the waiving party.

     16.     Attorneys’ Fees. If any suit or action arising out of or related to this Contract is brought
             by any party, the prevailing party or parties shall be entitled to recover the costs and
             fees (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, the fees and costs of
             experts and consultants, copying, courier and telecommunication costs, and deposition
             costs and all other costs of discovery) incurred by such party or parties in such suit or
             action, including, without limitation, any post-trial or appellate proceeding, or in the
             collection or enforcement of any judgment or award entered or made in such suit or
             action.

     17.     Waiver of Jury Trial. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH OF
             THE PARTIES HERETO WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY
             IN RESPECT OF LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF,
             UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS CONTRACT. EACH PARTY FURTHER
             WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO CONSOLIDATE ANY ACTION IN WHICH A JURY TRIAL
             HAS BEEN WAIVED WITH ANY OTHER ACTION IN WHICH A JURY TRIAL
             CANNOT BE OR HAS NOT BEEN WAIVED.

     18.     Entire Agreement. This Contract contains the entire agreement of the parties with
             respect to the subject matter, and replaces and supersedes in their entirety all prior
             agreements between the parties related to the same subject matter. This Contract
             may be modified only by a subsequent written amendment or agreement
             executed by both parties.

CITY OF RIVERTON                                            ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER

By                                                          By
         signature                                                   signature

                                                            Chris Carpenter                 Manager
 NAME (type or print legibly)    TITLE                       NAME (type or print legibly)    TITLE


 DATE                                                        DATE




                                                   5 of 6
Customer’s Mailing Address for Executed            Rocky Mountain Power’s Mailing Address
Contract                                           for Executed Contract

                                                   12840 Pony Express Rd
 ATTENTION OF                                       ADDRESS

12830 Redwood Rd                                   Draper, Ut 84020
 ADDRESS                                            CITY, STATE, ZIP

Riverton, UT 84065                                 louis.lopez@rockymountainpower.net
 CITY, STATE, ZIP                                   EMAIL ADDRESS

dwoodbury@rivertonutah.gov
 EMAIL ADDRESS




                                          6 of 6
