                                      CITY COUNCIL MEETING AGENDA

                                                    March 17, 2026
                                                    Riverton City Hall
                                                12830 S. Redwood Road
                                                  Riverton, Utah 84065

Riverton City Meeting Information

The City Council Meeting will be conducted as a hybrid meeting with in person attendance and audio/video of
the meeting broadcast live via the City Meetings link. Accompanying agenda documents will be available for
public review through the City website prior to the meeting and audio/written minutes will be available following
the meeting. Citizen comment may be submitted via email to recorder@rivertonutah.gov or at e-comments at
City Meetings. All comments submitted by noon on the date of the meeting will be relayed to the City Council.


1.    WORK SESSION - 4:00 PM

2.    Call to Order

3.    Discussion Items
      If time permits, items slated for discussion during the City Council meeting may be discussed during
      the Work Session. No resolution or ordinance will be adopted during the Work Session.

      3.a       Water Rate Study Conversation with Shawn Koorn (HDR) - Nick Geer, Administrative
                Services Director

      3.b       Budget Discussion on Water Rate and Operational Budget - Nick Geer, Administrative
                Services Director

      3.c       Fencing Ordinance - Kevin Hicks, City Manager

      3.d       General Plan Discussion - Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director

4.    Adjournment

Riverton City Hall is an ADA compliant facility. Individuals needing special accommodations or assistance during this meeting
shall notify the City Recorder’s Office at 801-208-3126 at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Accessible parking and
entrance is located on the south end of the building with elevator access to the Council Chambers located on the second floor.

                                                      Certificate of Posting
I, Jamie Larsen, Riverton City Recorder, certify that, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting, the foregoing Agenda was emailed

                                                                                                                                  1
to the Salt Lake Tribune, Deseret News and the Riverton Journal. A copy of the Agenda was also posted at Riverton City Hall,
on Riverton City’s Website at www.rivertonutah.gov, and on the Utah Public Meeting Notice Website at http://pmn.utah.gov.

Dated March 17, 2026




                                                                                                                               2
