                           MEMORANDUM
To:           Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:         Planning Department
Date:         September 3, 2024
Subject:      Ordinance 24-17, Code Text Amendment Amending Riverton City Code,
              Section 18.190.050(5), “Home Occupations” to Clarify the Appeals Process,
              Amendments Proposed by Riverton City.


On August 22, 2024 the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this proposed
code amendment. Minutes from that meeting will provided once transcribed. The Planning
Commission recommended approval, with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance 24-17, amending Riverton City Code Chapter
18.190.050(5) “Home Occupations” as described in Exhibit “A”.


Background
This is a public hearing for an amendment to Riverton City Code 18.190 “ Home Occupations”,
the Planning Commission is will make a recommendation to City Council.

A home occupation is a commercial activity that is allowed to operate as a business in a
residential zone under specific rules. Chapter 18.190 of Riverton City Code establishes the
rules, along with a process and criteria for evaluating applications for Home Occupations.

City Staff are authorized to review and approve Home Occupations that meet specific criteria.
When a resident proposes an activity that exceed those criteria, they can request a Conditional
Use Permit Home Occupation, where the Planning Commission acts as the Land Use Authority.

Section 18.190.050 Condition Use Home Occupation, explains the process for reviewing and
approving Conditional Use Home Occupations, and establishes the Commission as the Land
Use Authority. It also lays out the process for a resident to appeal a Planning Commission
decision. Unfortunately, 18.190.050(5) still contains a reference to City Council acting as the
appeal authority rather than the Board of Adjustment. This reference conflicts with 18.190.050
(6) which clearly sets out the process for appealing a Planning Commission decision to the
Board of Adjustment consistent with State Code and other sections of Riverton City Code.

This proposed ordinance amendment will remove the conflicting reference to City Council acting
as an appeal body. No other code changes are required. This proposed change will bring the
City Code into harmony with current City practices.

The proposed amendment reads as follows:
18.190.050 Conditional Use Home Occupation

(5) The planning commission acts as the land use authority for conditional use home occupations. The city
council shall act as the appeal authority to act in a quasi-judicial manner and serve as the final arbiter of
issues involving the interpretation or application of the home occupation land use ordinances.

(6) Appeals of the planning commission decision must be made within 30 days of the decision by submitting
a notice of appeal to the board of adjustment as set forth in RCC 18.195.100.




 Public Notices and Response
 Notices for Zone Text Changes are published on the City’s website and State of Utah’s Noticing
 page. Direct mailers are not sent as it does not impact a single property or location.

 No public comments had been received at the time of this report.


 Recommended Action

 The Planning Commission recommended approval of the proposed amendment, and staff concurs
 with that recommendation.
