                                    MEMORANDUM
To:                 Honorable Mayor and City Council

From:               Planning Department

Date:               September 1, 2020

Subject:            Zone Text Change, Amendments to the Land Use Code Section 18.150.110 as it
                    relates to the Monument Signs. Proposed by Riverton City.

PL NO.:             19-5004-Monument Signs Zone Text Change


On September 26, 2019, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider this proposed
text change. The Planning Commission following that hearing voted to recommend approval.
Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission recommended the
following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #20-16, proposed text amendments to Chapter 18.150.110,
regarding secondary monument signs, as described in Exhibit “A”.


Background

Monument signs are regulated by Riverton City Code 18.150 “Sign Regulation Ordinance”. The table of
sign standards describes the maximum area, height, density, spacing and set-back for monument signs.
The density for monument signs limits the approval to “one for sites having only one business”. And directs
other monument signs to obtain permission from the Planning Commission.

The language excludes a monument sign on a property with a multitenant building, and does not make a
provision for a commercial property on a corner or double fronting lot.

The proposed changes to the monument sign standards applies standards similar to those for pole signs,
in particular each eligible development is allowed one sign regardless if the development is a single user
or a multi-tenant building. Additionally, a second monument sign would be possible for properties with
more than one frontage. The spacing would remain at 100-ft, all other standards would also remain the
same.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1.    Exhibit A-Proposed Ordinance (part of table from 18.150.110 (2) Sign Standards.)




Report by: JL
8/26/2020
18.150.110 (2) Sign Standards.



                                                      SIGN STANDARDS

  SIGN TYPE     Maximum Area            Max.                 Density           Spacing         Front

                (square feet)    Height/Projection                                            Setback

Monument             50              Height: All          One for sites      Not less than    18 inches
signs                             monument signs         having only one     100 feet from
                                 shall sit on a base        business           any other
                                 not less than 2 feet      For all other     freestanding
                                 in height. The sign         sites: as            sign
                                   itself shall not       approved on a
                                 exceed 6 feet. The            sign         On secondary
                                 cumulative height        development       side streets, a
                                of a monument sign             plan         monument sign
                                 shall not exceed 8                         shall not be
                                  feet. In the C-D       One per eligible placed within
                                zone, the maximum         development.      200 feet of any
                                  height shall be 6       One additional    residential
                                   feet, measured          sign may be      zone or use.
                                  from the nearest         obtained for
                                 sidewalk elevation.         eligible
                                                          development
                                                         with frontage on
                                                            2 or more
                                                          streets. The
                                                             second
                                                         monument sign
                                                         must be located
                                                              on the
                                                            secondary
                                                            frontage.




Report by: JL
8/26/2020
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                9
September 26, 2019

5.     GENERAL PLAN, RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND
       USE CODE REGARDING MONUMENT SIGNS AND MASTER SIGN PLANS.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the City Council has invited the Planning Commission to
participate in a Joint Work Session on October 1 to discuss the General Plan. A decision
on the above matter would be postponed until after that date. A public hearing would,
however, be conducted tonight as it was duly noticed.

Chair Russell opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was continued.

Commissioner Hansen moved to continue this item and the public hearing to the
October 10, 2019, Planning Commission Meeting. Commissioner Cannon seconded
the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

●      DECISION ITEMS

1.     AMENDED SITE PLAN, WALMART IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE
       EXTERIOR FINISH AND SIGNAGE AT THE EXISTING SUPER CENTER LOCATED
       AT 13502 SOUTH HAMILTON VIEW ROAD.

Mr. Prestwich reported that staff has received requests from retailers and commercial users
to alter their site plans. A new application was recently created for an Amended Site Plan.
2005 renderings of the Walmart store were displayed that feature a significant amount of
brick, wall variations, colors, and textures. Mr. Prestwich noted that the renderings provided
in the Commissioner’s packets do not reflect what the applicant wishes to do. After some
discussion and clarification, staff was provided with the correct drawings, which were
displayed. The changes were described and included changing the color of the CMU block,
the cornice, and the EIFS above each entryway.

The other significant change involved what was formerly an earth tone becoming the
background for the Walmart sign. It was to be painted Medium Walmart Blue, however,
there is a provision in the ordinance that prohibits neon colors. Mr. Prestwich asked the
Commission to determine whether the proposed color is neon. Sign changes were also
proposed to update the look. Staff was comfortable that what is proposed complies with the
ordinance. Mr. Prestwich clarified that aside from the front façade, two secondary signs are
allowed of up to 30 square feet in size split among any of the other sides. The applicants
have chosen to place two on the west façade to advertise their auto center. After completing
their review, staff was comfortable recommending approval subject to the conditions set
forth in the staff report.

In response to a question raised, Mr. Prestwich stated that the north façade is considered
the primary façade. The ordinance states that up to 15% of the façade can be covered in
signage and split among multiple signs. Concern was expressed with the proposed blue
color. The comment was made that the blue shade selected is their brand color.
