                            MEMORANDUM
To:            Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:          Planning Department
Date:          June 16, 2026
Subject:       Ordinance 26-16 “Majestic Homes Rezone,” General Plan Amendment and
               Rezone of approximately 3.14-acre located at 13172 South Redwood Road.
               Changing the General Plan Designation to High Density Residential and the
               zoning to RM-14. Applicant-Majestic Homes.


On May 14, 2026, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this application.
Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission recommended
denial, with the following recommendation. For the Council’s convenience, a sample motion
to approve is also included.

I move the City Council deny Ordinance 26-16, the proposed Majestic Homes Rezone,” thus
keeping the current General Plan Designation of Medium Density Residential and current
Zoning of RR-22 and C-N.

Sample Motion to Approve.
I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 26-16, amending for 3.14 acres located at 13172
South Redwood Road the General Plan Designation to High Density Residential and the
zoning of the subject property to RM-14, as shown in Exhibit “A”.


Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant, Majestic Homes for
3.14-acres located at 13172 South Redwood Road

The subject parcel is a corner property with frontage on three public streets. The property is
vacant. The zoning on the parcel is a combination of RR-22 and C-N. RR-22 is a single
family residential zone with half-acre lots and animal rights. C-N is the Neighborhood
Commercial zone. The area zoning is mostly RR-22 with some C-N, C-PO, RM-6 and R-4
zoning in the area.

The current General Plan for the property is Medium Density Residential which corresponds
with lot sizes greater than 14,000-sf (1/3-acre). Most of the area is Medium Density Residential
on the west side of Redwood and Estate Density Residential on the east side of Redwood.
Redwood, south of city hall has historically been a boundary for big lots and historic Riverton,
with changes on the east side only recently being made to allow density less than ½-acre. The
west side of Redwood has more diverse zoning, but more cohesive General Plan of Medium
Density Residential (min 10,000-sf lots) which is consistent with R-4 zoning.
The applicant is requesting the RM-14 zone which allows density up to 14 units per acre. The
RM-14 Zone also requires specific parking, guest parking, road widths setbacks, building
separation and open space. The result is that most proposed projects do not reach the
maximum density. The applicants concept plans show small clusters of townhomes mixed with
open space resulting in a density of about 12 units per acre. This parcel has a unique setting
with frontage on three public streets and unlike many other infill projects it shares only three
property lines with existing houses. With the available roadway connections, there would not be
access granted to Redwood Road. The applicant has submitted a concept plan for the property,
which, while helpful in demonstrating the applicant’s design for the property, is not part of the
approval and will not be binding if the rezone application is approved.

The Planning Commission following their public hearing on this item voted to recommend denial
of the application. Minutes from that meeting are included in this packet.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Rezone Application.
       2.   Area Zoning Map.
       3.   Area General Plan Map.
       4.   Concept Plan.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SANDY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      45 W 10000 S, Suite 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sandy, UT 84070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Phone: 801.255.0529

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAYTON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Phone: 801.547.1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOOELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Phone: 435.843.3590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CEDAR CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Phone: 435.865.1453
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RICHFIELD
                                                                                                                 13150 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phone: 435.896.2983

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WWW.ENSIGNENG.COM

                                                                                                                                                 EAST         466.25'                                                                                                                                                                          FOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KEVIN GUST




                                                                                                                                                                                           15.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CONTACT:
                                                                                     25.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHONE:
                                                                                                                                                                         11                                       10                                             1

                                                                                                     23   22       21           20   19




                                                                           150.00'
                                                                                                                                                                         12                                        9                                             2

                                                                                                                                                                                              28.3'
                                        BROOK HILL




                                                                           NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                         13                                        8                                             3




                                                                                                                        15.7'
                                        27-34-329-013                                                                                                                                                                                  27.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             195.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REDWOOD ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                         14                                        7                                             4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAJESTIC TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH
                                                                                                     24   25       26           27   28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13172 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                         15                                        6                                             5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
1830 WEST




                                        EAST        158.31'                                                                                                                                                                                                          15.0'



                                                                                                                                          38 UNITS
                                                                   25.0'




                                                                                                                                           3.14 AC




                                                                                                                                                                              27.0'
                      15.0'
                                                                                                                                           12 UPA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25.0'
                              38   37          36             35      34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WEST      170.00'
                                                                                                     33   32       31           30   29
            130.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                      25.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                              85.00'
            NORTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TIM A BELKA
                                                                                                                                                         18             17            16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      27-34-329-008




                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH
                                                                                             27.0'




                                                                                                                                                     25.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13200 SOUTH
                                                                                             8.3'




                                                                                                          WEST    454.50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JOHANNA JOHNSON
                                                                                     DAVID CUFF                                                                                                                         27-34-329-009 & 010
                                                                                     27-34-329-002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONCEPT PLAN



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT NUMBER    PRINT DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2026-02-24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HORIZONTAL GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT MANAGER   DESIGNED BY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30       0         15        30   60             DAJ               KFW


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HORZ: 1 inch = 30 ft.                             1 OF 1
PC Minutes
Approved: PC 5.28.26


                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               MEETING MINUTES
                                   MAY 14, 2026

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton, Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Crystal Keele                                    Matt Cassel, City Engineer
Gary Cannon                                      Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Evan Matheson                                    Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Shelly Cluff                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Monique Beck
Joe Marzo

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Darren Park called the Planning Commission Meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
Commissioner Marzo led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     “MAJESTIC HOMES REZONE,” PLZ-26-4002, AN APPLICATION TO
              REZONE APPROXIMATELY 3.14 ACRES, LOCATED AT 13172 SOUTH
              REDWOOD ROAD, FROM THE C-N (NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL)
              ZONE TO RM-14 (MEDIUM-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL) ZONE, AND TO
              AMEND THE GENERAL PLAN FROM MEDIUM-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
              TO HIGH-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL. APPLICANT – DAVID LARSEN,
              KEVIN GUST.

City Planner Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report. Aerial, General Plan, and Zoning
Maps were reviewed. Mr. Prestwich reminded those present that the Zoning Map
indicates what can be done with properties under current laws, and the General Plan Map
suggests what the City is willing to consider for the property. The General Plan Map was
last amended in August 2020 and would be updated again in 2026 but could be amended
at any time with City Council approval.

The subject property was currently designated Medium Density Residential, which is
equivalent to the R-4 Zone with 0.25-acre minimum lot sizes. Most properties on the east
side of Redwood Road were designated Estate Density Residential, which requires 0.50-
acre or larger lots with animal rights. The parcel directly across from the subject property
was designated Medium-High Density Residential.

The applicant had requested that the subject property be designated High-Density
Residential, which allows for up to 12 units per acre. Mr. Prestwich reported that the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
May 14, 2026


designation was created prior to the adoption of the RM-14 Zone, which allows up to 14
units, but that was the equivalent zoning, and the definition would be modified during the
upcoming General Plan update.

Properties in the area were primarily zoned RR-22 and R-4, with some R-3 and
commercial parcels. A portion of the subject property was rezoned Neighborhood
Commercial (“C-N”) in approximately 2006, but remained undeveloped, and the property
directly across the street was recently rezoned RM-6. The applicant requested that the
subject property be rezoned to RM-14.

Mr. Prestwich reported that three to four townhome projects in the City were zoned RM-
14, one of which included some small-lot single-family homes as allowed by the zone.
The purpose of the RM-14 Zone is to provide areas of medium residential density with
the opportunity for varied housing styles and a maximum density of 14 units per acre.
Permitted uses include condominiums and townhomes (attached or detached), and
residential planned developments (small lot, single-family homes on private streets).
Geographical and other constraints typically limit density in these projects.

An aerial photograph of the subject property was displayed. The property fronts public
streets on three sides and shares the south property line with two other property owners.

The conceptual Site Plan was reviewed. Mr. Prestwich indicated that the plan was not
up for review but could be helpful in the Planning Commission’s deliberations. The
applicant proposed attached townhomes with private streets, garage and driveway
parking, as well as guest parking and shared common areas. The development would
also have several access points.

Several public comments had been received regarding this item. Residents were
concerned that approval of the application could change the character of the City and
questioned why it was being considered when similar requests had been denied. Mr.
Prestwich reported that if a rezoning application meets minimum requirements, it must be
considered unless a request for the same zone has been denied within a specified
timeframe. In this case, the applicant owned the property and met the minimum acreage
requirements. City Staff works with all applicants, but rezoning is a legislative decision
that Staff does not advocate for or against.

The State was also applying pressure on cities to address the housing crisis by approving
higher density, and as a result Staff was constantly approached by potential applicants
interested in constructing multi-family developments on vacant or underutilized parcels
like the subject property. Until those properties were all developed, applications would
continue to be brought before the Planning Commission and City Council. Elected
officials feel pressure from both constituents wanting to maintain the current character of
the City and State requirements to allow higher density. The Planning Commission was
not elected, but the City Council relied on its opinions and observations.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              3
May 14, 2026


Staff recently discussed the issue with Mayor Buroker, and the City Council and Planning
Commission had been invited to tour high-density projects and identify elements that
would and would not work in Riverton. During the General Plan update, they would also
be considering areas of the City that may be suitable for higher-density development.

Commissioner Cluff stated that the conceptual Site Plan showed a density of 12 units per
acre, but 14 units would be allowed if the property were rezoned. The Planning
Commission was sometimes reluctant to approve based on a concept. In response to
her question, Mr. Prestwich clarified that the RM-14 Zone would allow stacked
condominiums or apartments on the property. However, the Planning Commission could
recommend that only townhomes or detached single-family homes be allowed.

Commissioner Matheson remarked that if only single-family homes were allowed, that
would equate to a density of approximately eight homes per acre. Mr. Prestwich stated
that in that case, the Planning Commission could recommend rezoning to RM-6.
However, the difference between zoning that allows 12 units per acre versus four units
per acre is not as large as it may sound. An extra four to eight units would not create a
lot of additional impacts on roads and neighborhoods, and there were tools available to
ensure that the final project would be built to the conceptual Site Plan.

David Larsen and Kevin Gust spoke on behalf of the applicant. Mr. Gust stated that
Majestic Homes had owned the subject property for approximately eight years. He and
Mr. Larsen had lived in Riverton for over 30 years and had considered many different
concepts for the site. The final concept was decided upon, not because it had RM-14
zoning but because they believed it would work best on the property and provide people
with an opportunity to live in Riverton. It would have large roads and adequate parking,
with both two-car garages and driveways at each home. The concept would fit all
requirements for setbacks, ingress and egress, etc., and be governed by a homeowners
association. They believe that it was a good product that would work well on the parcel.
Traffic could impact some nearby streets, but the property was on a busy street, not in an
existing neighborhood. There would also be ample green space.

Mr. Gust stated that they had considered commercial uses for the subject property but
were concerned that it would not bring value to the neighborhood. They had reviewed
many concepts with Staff over the years, but this was the first that had been brought
before the Planning Commission, and the development would meet all City requirements.

Mr. Larsen stated that they had considered many different concepts for the property,
including storage units and other commercial projects. They asked Staff what the City
would like to have on the property and then worked with Ensign Engineering to create a
concept plan. They live in Riverton and wanted to do something that would be nice for
the City. He understood that people did not want things to change, but that was the way
of life, and he believed it was a good concept that may allow adult children and older
residents to stay in Riverton. The development would have garages, driveways, and 14
additional guest parking stalls. They want to do what is right for the community.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               4
May 14, 2026



Mr. Gust noted that Majestic Homes built the home on the corner and knows the property
very well.

Commissioner Matheson stated that no public comments were received in support of the
proposal and asked if the applicant had spoken with community members. The property
across the street was originally proposed as a high-rise condominium, then townhomes,
but conflicts disappeared, and neighbors were happy when they proposed RM-6.
Mr. Larsen stated that they had not been in contact with residents of the noticing area,
but he knows of several people who would be interested in the development because
they are getting older and want to downsize without leaving Riverton. Mr. Gust added
that they had spoken with many residents who may not be in attendance. They wanted
to achieve a certain density, but it worked on the subject property.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Gust stated that they were
unsure of the price point, but the units would be more affordable than single-family homes
on large lots, which are unaffordable to many working residents.

Commissioner Beck asked if the intent was to create a senior-living neighborhood.
Mr. Gust stated that they originally considered the option, but members of the City Council
asked them to consider a development for both seniors and young families.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Louisa Jones stated that although the applicant presented a good argument, she believed
that the many drawbacks outweighed any benefits. The property is next to the elementary
school. Last year, she was on safety patrol, and a five-year-old child was almost run over.
Fifty additional homes would add too much traffic and cause a lot of problems. The
development would also ruin the beauty and uniqueness of Riverton, which already had
a lot of its beauty ruined by the widening of Redwood Road and the removal of historic
buildings. Single-family homes should be built instead. The applicant mentioned that
residents need affordable homes, but smaller homes would meet that need without
destroying the town.

Carrie Christensen stated that she lives very close to the subject property. When they
purchased their home, her family wanted to have choices about how to use the yard.
They also wanted a single-level home because their son has cerebral palsy and needs to
be able to walk around. They had enjoyed boarding horses, and this year her children
would be raising lambs for 4-H. They also have a large garden and fruit trees. Houses
in the neighborhood are a testament to their original owners, with some dream houses
and others built of cinderblock. There is a variety of scale, an attitude of helping each
other, and creative use of properties. The proposed development stood in stark contrast,
with no yards or individuality of architecture. It would have a sameness of socioeconomic
status and limit owners’ freedom to choose how to use their land, paint their house, or
even their door. The townhomes could not be modified for accessibility, so she did not
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   5
May 14, 2026


know how they would work for seniors. There would be hardly any green space for
children to play. Within a few hundred feet of the proposed development, families were
keeping livestock and had built a strong agricultural feeling. She chose to live in the
neighborhood, but noise from the livestock could annoy someone who did not value
having a yard. The style of the neighborhood may bother her as well. She believes the
lot should be turned into something that could seamlessly integrate into the neighborhood.
It could remain zoned RR-22 and be turned into six homes or R-4 and provide homes for
12 families, but she did not believe there should be an HOA because it would not fit the
current neighborhood culture.

Dave Mobley stated that he lives near the subject property and represented a significant
number of neighboring property owners. As a resident of the community, he cared deeply
about keeping neighborhoods good places where families can thrive. He opposed the
Majestic Homes rezone, as changing the corner property from its current zoning to high
density would be too much, too soon. There was a much better approach at the corner
of 13200 South and Redwood Road, where the developers listened to neighbors, scaled
back their plans, and worked cooperatively toward a solution that fits the area. That kind
of partnership builds trust, but developers who try to ramrod their way through the process
erode it. The proposal would increase intensity on a key corridor that the City had
acknowledged was under significant pressure and break up the cohesive medium-density
pattern that defined the west side of Redwood Road. He believed that approving high-
density townhomes would set a dangerous precedent prior to completing the General
Plan update and proper corridor planning. Practical concerns included more traffic on
Redwood Road, increased parking spillover into neighborhoods, and safety issues for
children walking and biking to school. The representative form of government exists to
give citizens a meaningful voice in shaping the future of the community, not just to hand
decisions over to developers and bureaucracy. He asked that the Planning Commission
recommend denial of the rezone as proposed or approval of RM-6 zoning with detached
homes that would properly transition into the existing neighborhood.

Peggy Jones stated that she does not live within 1,000 feet of the subject property, but
she does live in the neighborhood. The developers indicated that they looked at how the
project would fit, but she did not believe that it fit. They said that it may be a great way to
keep parents in town when they get older, but the units would be vertical. Without
elevators, her parents could not live in a vertical home with so many stairs. Things are
changing, and it is up to the City to direct that change. Directing it to destroy
neighborhoods and build large, high-density developments would ruin the feel of the
community and not be the right choice. It is important to offer home ownership to young
people at the lower end of the market, but the dream is a single-family home, not a
townhouse. Small single-family homes on small lots would be a better option and would
work for the neighborhood. Traffic is crazy in the morning. It is already hard to get out of
the neighborhood, and a child was struck by a vehicle due to the amount of traffic. Fifty
townhomes did not work for the area. Not everyone wants a 0.50-acre lot, but 5,000-
square-foot lots would be in keeping with what Riverton is. She asked that the City please
preserve the neighborhood.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
May 14, 2026



Dean Workington stated that he hoped the Planning Commission would vote against the
proposal. Rezoning to RM-14 would allow up to 44 units on the subject property, which
would add between 132 and 176 people to the area. There was already not enough
water, and they were considering adding 500,000 to 700,000 gallons per month in water
going into the homes and sewage coming out. That was not sustainable in a drought
area. It would also add up to 88 additional cars that would have to avoid hitting children
next to an elementary school. People already park on the street because they cannot get
into the school to drop off or pick up their children. He understood that there was pressure
from the State, but residents were asking the City to please protect their privileges and
desires. They moved to Riverton because they wanted a rural feel. His son lives in an
HOA in Payson, where the houses are very close, and he cannot grow a garden. He
asked that the application be denied.

Caden Carter stated that he did not believe the proposed density was a good fit for the
area. He would like to see the property rezoned to RM-6. He and his wife just purchased
their home, and townhomes were not much more inexpensive than single-family homes
with smaller lots. Regarding seniors living there, anyone who cannot maintain a lawn
would have a very hard time with one to two flights of stairs to access any part of their
house. His greatest concern was the fact that the property was directly across the street
from Riverton Elementary School. The City should be very mindful of the safety of its
children. His parents live across the street from townhomes, many of which were turned
into rentals. That raised the fear that undesirables could move into the neighborhood in
five to 10 years.

Travis Christensen stated that he lives next to the elementary school. He likes the idea
of individuals and families being able to own homes in Riverton. The story people hear
is that high-density housing will provide a pathway to ownership for Utah’s children and
growing population. However, there were four RM-14 developments within a one-mile
radius of the subject property. Of the 324 total units, 32% or 105 were owner-occupied,
and the other 68% were owned by someone with a different address. He did not believe
that the product would allow the population to own a home, but rather would allow
temporary renters. According to the 2024 Census, Riverton had 85% home ownership,
which he believed was in part due to the City’s zoning. If they wanted to provide people
with a chance to own their own home, RM-14 was not the product. Those developments
tend to be an island, often with large concrete walls, no sidewalks, and limited parking.
He was present because he loves the community and wanted to provide input into how it
grows, and he hoped the Planning Commission would consider his points.

David Cuff stated that he shared 400 feet of frontage with the proposed development.
The applicant had not spoken with him about their plans, and the concept presented at
the meeting was different from the one included in the meeting packet. He preferred the
original concept, but they both created the same problem of a four-way stop at the
elementary school. As an engineer, he understood the challenge of getting people in and
out of the development without a four-way stop, but he did not believe that more traffic in
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                7
May 14, 2026


a more complex pattern would work. He was also concerned about water usage and how
the project would fit with the community.

Al Buehler stated that he lives on the east side of Redwood Road near the subject
property. He asked where the trash cans or dumpster would be located. Riverton
requires trash cans to be screened, and it brings down the neighborhood when they are
in view, which he believed would happen in the proposed development. The homes would
be two stories without elevators, so senior citizens would not live in them. The units would
turn into rental properties purchased by investors because they are too small to own. He
did not believe 14 parking spaces were enough for 44 units, so cars would park on the
street. He believed the proposal was too aggressive for the property.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich reported that the
General Plan provides for a range of densities. Medium-High Density Residential allows
for five to eight units per acre and is equivalent to the RM-6 and RM-8 Zones. RM-6 is
for single-family homes only, and RM-6 includes townhomes, condominiums, and small
lot single-family homes. High-Density Residential allows for eight to 12 units per acre
and is equivalent to the RM-14, RM-14-Downtown, and RM-18 Zones, which are typically
townhomes and condominiums.

Commissioner Cluff asked about the City’s ability to restrict purchase, for example,
prohibiting corporations from purchasing homes in the proposed development. City
Attorney, Ryan Carter, stated that there had been political movements in that direction,
but the City did not have the ability to place such restrictions.

Commissioner Cluff stated that she was grateful for the respectful and well-thought-out
public comments. When similar developments had been proposed along Redwood Road,
her primary concerns were access points, parking, flow, and the impact on the
surrounding neighborhood. For example, the property across the street was approved
for RM-6 Zoning, but they initially proposed a high-rise on a private road without public
parking. The surrounding zoning is important, as a development should make sense in
its neighborhood. Utah is one of the best states for upward mobility, and she recently
learned that one of the best indicators of upward mobility is mixed zoning.

She liked that the property had multiple access points that were not on Redwood Road
and that most of the yards were internal. The properties would be attractive to young
families, and she believed the concept was for safer development than had been
presented in other proposals. She lives on a one-acre lot and loves the big-lot feel of
Riverton, but she liked that the subject property was close to the elementary school and
would provide a generally safe route for children to walk there. However, she was
concerned about the zoning disparity, as high-density and estate density are polar
opposites and may not belong beside each other. She was also concerned about setting
a precedent. The project seemed to have been thoughtfully designed by developers with
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   8
May 14, 2026


an investment in the City, other developers would see RM-14 on the subject property and
propose similar projects that may not make sense. The sounds and smells of the
surrounding agricultural community may not be to townhome owners’ liking.

Commissioner Cluff noted that there was a price point difference. Some new RM-6 single-
family homes on Redwood Road were selling for $1 million, and she believed the entry
point for townhomes was $500,000 or $600,000, which would provide an access point for
first-time homebuyers.

Commissioner Beck thanked Louisa Jones for her comments, as speaking publicly at her
age can be challenging. She was not in favor of approving RM-14 zoning for the subject
property. The concept plan was well thought out. However, her elderly mother cannot
use stairs so it would not be appropriate for her, and she did not see how even her
stepchildren could afford to live there. She also believed it would bring too much density
to the area.

Commissioner Marzo stated that many good points had been made. He was glad that an
entry point from Redwood Road was not proposed. He lives in an area of the City that
has gone through many rezones and understands that it is shocking to live next to a
property that is rezoned to high density. He was not in favor of high-density so close to
estate-density properties, but could be in favor of RM-6.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Keele, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that
an RM-6 or RM-8 development would still require private roads and an HOA.
Commissioner Keele stated that there would be an HOA regardless. She understands
their cons, but they also have benefits like maintaining uniformity and the ability to restrict
rentals. She liked the fact that there was no access from Redwood Road and believed
that the development was a good idea, but she would prefer RM-6 or RM-8.

Commissioner Matheson stated that he had lived in Riverton for 30 years and loves the
City. The days of large lots were mostly over, but it would be out of place to transition
from single-family housing to the proposed development. He was not in favor of the
proposal. An RM-6 development would be preferable. His son paid $420,000 for a
townhome in Eagle Mountain, so he understood that single-family homes would be more
expensive in Riverton. However, he did not believe that RM-14 belonged in the area.

Chair Park stated that the proposed development was very well thought out. However,
the conceptual Site Plan was different from what was originally proposed. Rezoning the
property to RM-14 would allow the applicant to return with a Site Plan for more units in a
different layout, or to sell the property to a new developer who could do so. He does not
believe that affordable housing exists in Riverton’s market, which is unfortunate because
it will be difficult for his children to live where they were raised. The State was requiring
maximum density under the guise of affordable housing and threatening to force higher
density on cities. The Housing Commissioner had indicated that they were in favor of 30
units per acre abutting a State road, and the subject property abutted a State road.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 9
May 14, 2026


Riverton was approaching buildout, but acting on projects like the one proposed benefited
the City in that not approving them ran the risk of the State forcing approval of even higher
density. The City Council was feeling pressure from both citizens and the State, and the
State posed a genuine threat. A balance had to be maintained in how projects along
State corridors were developed. The Planning Commission would be involved in the
General Plan update and help come up with a plan that would reflect the type of City they
wanted at buildout.

Chair Park was not in favor of RM-14 because the proposal and property ownership could
change, and the end result could be far worse, but that could also happen due to the
State Legislature. He recommended that the item be continued or tabled until after the
City Council determined the appropriate General Plan designation for the area.

Commissioner Cluff stated that there were reasonable arguments both for and against
the project. It was a political decision, which was the City Council’s area. The Planning
Commission is a quasi-administrative body, and in that capacity, she believed a
recommendation should be made so the City Council could make the final decision. Chair
Park noted that the City Council is not obligated to accept the Commission’s
recommendation.

Commissioner Matheson stated that it would be a disservice to table the item. He
believed that the Planning Commission should vote on the item and forward it to the City
Council. His sense was that the recommendation would be for denial. Commissioner
Cluff stated that she would likely vote against the motion, as it was important to highlight
that there were good arguments on both sides of the issue.

Motion language was discussed. Mr. Carter confirmed that the Planning Commission
could recommend an alternate density. However, given the unique size and shape of the
property, any density recommendations would not have the same level of planning and
would be speculative at best. The obvious choice would be to simply recommend denial.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission recommend
DENIAL of Application PLZ-26-4002, “Majestic Homes Rezone,” by Changing the
General Plan Designation to High Density Residential and Rezoning the Subject
Property to RM-14. Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Marzo–Yes, Commissioner Cluff–No, Chair Park–No, Commissioner
Beck–Yes, Commissioner Keele–No, Commissioner Matheson–Yes. The motion
failed.

Chair Park stated that he shared Commissioner Cluff’s reasons for voting against the
motion but would be willing to reconsider, as the objections were on the record.
Commissioner Keele stated that she voted against the motion due to the imminent danger
of State action to force higher density. Commissioner Cluff stated that of all high-density
options, townhomes are more attractive to families, and their residents tend to have a
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               10
May 14, 2026


good sense of community. She had seen their benefits but was unsure of allowing them
in this location. There were strong reasons both for and against the proposal.

Commissioner Matheson indicated that he was opposed to changing the General Plan.
Chair Park stated that it was a valid point given the upcoming General Plan review.
Commissioner Cluff stated that she did not like the lack of collaboration with the
surrounding neighborhood. Other developers had achieved great success by discussing
what might be a better fit with neighbors, as evidenced by the development across the
street from the subject property.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission recommend
DENIAL of Application PLZ-26-4002, “Majestic Homes Rezone,” by Changing the
General Plan Designation to High Density Residential and Rezoning the Subject
Property to RM-14. Commissioner Marzo seconded the motion. Vote on Motion:
Commissioner     Marzo–Yes,    Commissioner    Cluff–Yes,   Chair   Park–No,
Commissioner Beck–Yes, Commissioner Keele–No, Commissioner Matheson–
Yes. The motion passed by a vote of 4-to-2.

      B.     "KING REZONE," PLZ-26-4004, AN APPLICATION TO REZONE 0.49
             ACRES LOCATED AT 13882 AND 13392 SOUTH TRESTLE LANE, AND
             A PORTION OF 13400 SOUTH TRESTLE LANE AND 2426 WEST 13400
             SOUTH, FROM THE RR-22 (LOW-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL, ½ ACRE
             MINIMUM LOT SIZE), TO THE R-4 (MEDIUM-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL,
             10,000 SQUARE FOOT MINIMUM LOT SIZE). APPLICATION IS ALSO
             TO AMEND THE GENERAL PLAN FROM ESTATE-DENSITY
             RESIDENTIAL TO MEDIUM-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL. APPLICANT –
             DAVID KING.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and reviewed the aerial, General Plan, and
Zoning Maps. The subject property consisted of multiple parcels, which were currently
designated Low-Density Residential and zoned RR-22. The applicant had requested that
the property be designated Medium-Density Residential, like the parcels to the west and
rezoned to R-4. Nearby properties were zoned R-4, R-3, and RR-22, and solid fencing
would be required between the subject property and the adjacent RR-22 parcel.

Photographs of the subject property were reviewed. It included vacant land and an
existing nonconforming duplex. Trestle Lane formerly occupied the City-owned portion
of the property, which had been vacant since 2010. That parcel was zoned RR-22 but
was not large enough to accommodate two 0.50-acre lots. The applicant hoped to
purchase the parcel to combine with his property for future development. Mr. Prestwich
noted that the City Council had not yet decided to sell the property.

Notices were sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property, and several
calls and emails were received. One neighbor expressed concern about the narrow
