SCOPE OF SERVICES – Phase 2

Design, engineer and install a Reverse Osmosis Water Treatment System (“System”) into a building that
will be constructed at the Green Well Pumphouse. The Green Well Pump House will be modified to
have a building attached in order to house the treatment system. An Engineer/Architect will be selected
to design the water treatment system building. The City will bid and select a firm to construct the
building. The treatment system and the water treatment building together will be known as the Water
Treatment Facility.

The System will include but may not be limited to: adding VFD to existing motor and adding to and/or
adjusting existing piping to connect the proposed treatment facility to the existing pump house.

The System will be engineered and designed for a minimum 20‐year life

The System must be engineered to meet JVWCD Standards (proposal option 2 of Total Water
Management’s response to RFP 222‐20RE), Jordan River discharge.


The scope of work is to include the following:
-   Meeting with a committee that may include the Mayor, City Council members, City Staff, Building
    Engineer/Architect (not yet selected) and invited citizens.

‐   Develop engineered construction plans and drawings on the System. Must work with the building
    Engineer/Architect on the design so the System can be installed and connected inside the water
    treatment building.

‐   Install and connect System which will include but may not be limited to:

        A.   Oversee Project.

        B.   Procure all materials needed for the Project.

        C.   Furnish, install, startup and make fully operational the treatment system.

        D.   Schedule and/or participate in a weekly Owner/Engineering Firm/Building Construction
             Contractor Meeting.

        E.   Coordinate/install any utility work needed for the Project.

        F.   Create punch list and follow through the completion of the project.

        G.   Train city staff to operate and maintain treatment system.

        H.   Provide one full set of As Built Plans.

        I.   Close out the project.
