WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

City of Riverton
Attn: City Recorder
12830 South Redwood Road
Riverton, UT 84065


                                     DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                      Riverton Self Storage 4000 West

        This Development Agreement (this “Agreement”) is between the City of Riverton, a Utah
municipal corporation (“City”); and Farmhouse Storage, LLC, a Utah limited liability company
(“Developer”). City and Developer are jointly referred to as the “Parties” and each may be referred to
individually as “Party.”

                                                  RECITALS

       A. Developer owns certain real property located within the boundaries of the City and which is
more specifically described in the attached Exhibit A (the “Property”).

        B. Developer intends to develop the Property consistent with the Concept Plan attached hereto as
Exhibit B (the “Concept Plan”). The development of the Property as proposed on the Concept Plan is
generally referred to as the “Project.”

        C. The City, acting pursuant to its authority under the Land Use Development and Management
Act (as codified in Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-102(2) et seq., hereafter the “Act”) and the Riverton City Code
(the “City Code”), and in furtherance of its land use policies, goals, objectives, ordinances, resolutions, and
regulations, has determined that this Agreement is necessary and appropriate for the use and development
of the Property within the City.

        D. The Property is currently within the City’s R-3 Zone. The Developer desires to develop the
Property in conformity with this Agreement and desires a zone change on the Property from R-3 to a zone
of Regional Commercial (C-R). The provisions of the C-R code are attached hereto as Exhibit C.

        E. The Parties acknowledge that the development and improvement of the Property pursuant to
this Agreement will provide certainty useful to the Developer and to City, individually and collectively, in
ongoing and future dealings and relations among the Parties pertaining to the development of the Project.

         F. The City has determined that the proposed development contains features which advance the
policies, goals, and objectives of the City’s General Plan; preserve and maintain the open and sustainable
atmosphere desired by the citizens of the City; contribute to capital improvements which substantially
benefit the City; and will result in planning and economic benefits to the City and its citizens.

        G. The Parties acknowledge that the terms of this Agreement shall be enforceable and the rights
of the Developer relative to the Property shall vest only if the City Council, in its sole legislative discretion,
approves a zoning change from the R-3 Zone to the C-R Zone.


Development Agreement – Riverton Self Storage                                                                   1
        H. The Parties, having cooperated in the drafting of this Agreement, understand and intend that
this Agreement is a “development agreement” within the meaning of, and is entered into pursuant to, the
terms of Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-103(12) (2024).

       NOW THEREFORE, based on the foregoing recitals and in consideration of the mutual covenants
and promises contained and set forth herein, the Parties agree as follows:

                                                AGREEMENT

        1.    Recitals; Definitions. The recitals set forth above are incorporated herein by this reference.
Any capitalized term used but not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to
such term in the Act or City Code.

         2.    Enforceability. The Parties acknowledge that the terms of this Agreement shall be
enforceable, and the rights of Developer relative to the Property shall vest, only if the City Council in its
sole legislative discretion rezones the Property from the R-3 Zone to the C-R Zone.

        3.     Effective Date. This Agreement is effective on the later of the following: (i) the date on which
the City vacates the storm drain pond and public right of way as set forth in Section 5.5 hereof; or (ii) the
date on which the last party executes this Agreement as indicated by the date stated under that party’s
signature line (the “Effective Date”).

        4.    Conflicting Terms. The Property shall be developed in accordance with the requirements
and benefits of this Agreement as well as those conditions and standards provided for in the City Code and
applicable state law. If there is a discrepancy between the requirements of the City Code and this
Agreement, this Agreement shall control.

        5.    Development of the Project.

               5.1. Uses. Developer shall develop and use the Property for self-storage and outdoor
                    vehicular storage (the “Intended Uses”) in accordance with this Agreement.

               5.2. Design Standards. In addition to any other applicable design standards in the City’s
                    Code that are in effect as of the Effective Date, the building architecture, general
                    elevations, material types, signage, and other standards depicted in the attached Exhibit
                    D (the “Design Standards”) are approved for use as set forth herein.

               5.3. Fencing. Developer shall install fencing according to the standards, and in the
                    locations, depicted in the attached Exhibit E. The Parties acknowledge that some of the
                    fencing set forth in the Fencing Plan is comprised of the walls of the buildings
                    themselves. Accordingly, and subject to the fencing requirements for Lots 1, 2, and 6
                    set forth in the next sentence, Developer shall not be required to complete the fencing
                    around the entire Project prior to the City issuing building permits. Notwithstanding,
                    Developer shall install the fencing in accordance with the Fencing Plan around Lots 1,
                    2, and 6 prior to the City’s issuance of building permits for Buildings B, E, or G.

               5.4. Phasing. Developer may develop the Intended Uses in two phases. The first phase
                    shall include the Intended Uses, buildings, fencing, signage, and other details depicted
                    in the attached Exhibit F (the “Second Phase”). If Developer constructs the Second
                    Phase, the Second Phase may be built with the additional self-storage up to 160,000

Development Agreement – Riverton Self Storage                                                                2
                    square feet in accordance with the Concept Plan and the other terms and conditions of
                    this Agreement.

              5.5. Vacation of Storm Pond and Public Right of Way. The Parties acknowledge that in
                   2006, the City approved the original subdivision plat (the “Original Plat”) for
                   McKenzie Estates. In connection therewith, the original developer dedicated Lot 7 as
                   a public storm drain pond (the “Storm Pond”) and McKenzie Park Circle as a public
                   street (the “Public Right of Way”). Simultaneously with the consideration of this
                   Agreement, the City has approved: (i) an ordinance vacating the Public Right of Way
                   and conveying ownership thereof to Developer; and (ii) an ordinance disposing of the
                   Storm Pond and conveying ownership thereof to Developer.

                     5.5.1.   Storm Pond Improvements. The Parties acknowledge that on June 30, 2008,
                              the City executed a letter of understanding (the “MOU”) with the Church of
                              Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (“Church”) regarding, among other things,
                              storm water maintenance obligations related to Parcel No. 27-29-151-009 (the
                              “Church Property”) and the Storm Pond. In connection with the conveyance
                              of the Storm Pond to Developer, Developer agrees to continue accepting the
                              storm water flows that currently discharge into the Storm Pond (including all
                              off-site storm water flows consistent with the standards, terms, and
                              obligations set forth in the MOU (collectively the “Storm Water Discharge”).
                              Notwithstanding, Developer may, in connection with a site plan for the
                              Project, submit engineered drawings to realign the storm water facilities on
                              the Property in a manner that continues to supply the level of service needed
                              to accommodate the Intended Uses and the current Storm Water Discharge.

              5.6. Public Improvements on 4000 West. Developer shall design and construct road, curb,
                   gutter, and sidewalk improvements (collectively the “4000 West Improvements”)
                   along 4000 West in accordance with City standards, requirements, and applicable
                   master plans. The City agrees to reimburse Developer (or otherwise issue development
                   credits) for the portion of the 4000 West Improvements that are adjacent to Lot 1
                   (parcel no. 27-29-305-001) and Lot 2 (parcel no. 27-29-305-003). Such
                   reimbursements and/or credits shall be issued by the City upon Developer’s completion
                   of the 4000 West Improvements and the City’s acceptance of the same into warranty.

              5.7. Landscape Buffer. The Parties acknowledge that the owners of Lot 1, Lot 2, and Lot
                   6 have coordinated in the planning of the Project and will be benefited by the 4000
                   West Improvements. Accordingly, the City hereby waives the requirement that
                   Developer install any landscape buffer along the eastern and southern boundaries of
                   Lots 1, 2, and 6 as well as the boundary of the Property and the Church Property.
                   Notwithstanding, Developer shall, in accordance with the Fencing Plan, install an eight
                   foot (8’) solid fence along such boundaries.

              5.8. Building Setbacks. Buildings B and E (as depicted on the Concept Plan) shall be set
                   back a minimum of thirty-six feet (36’) from the property boundary of Lot 2. All other
                   setbacks shall comply with the City Code or the minimums set forth in the Concept
                   Plan.

              5.9. Building Height. Buildings within Phase One of the Project, excluding the Office
                   Residence and the Signage Tower, shall not exceed one story (or sixteen feet (16’)

Development Agreement – Riverton Self Storage                                                            3
                     from finished grade to the top of the respective building). Notwithstanding, no storage
                     buildings in the Project shall exceed two stories (or thirty-two feet (32’) from finished
                     grade to the top of the respective building). Maximum height for the Office Residence
                     and Signage Tower shall be as shown in the attached approved Exhibit D.

         6.    Offset of Previously Paid Impact Fees. The Parties acknowledge that the City collected
storm water impact fees (the “Prior Storm Fee”) and secondary water impact fees (the “Prior Water Fee”)
(collectively the “Prior Impact Fees”) in connection with the approval of the Original Plat. Accordingly,
the City shall issue secondary water impact fee credits (the “Water Credits”) in the amount of $24,000 (16
shares multiplied by $1,500 per share). Developer may offset the Water Credits against any other amounts
owed to the City in connection with the development of the Project. If the Project requires more secondary
water than what was previously [purchased from the City][dedicated to the City] in connection with the
Original Plat, then Developer shall purchase from the City an amount of secondary water at the current
impact fee rate equal to the difference between the Prior Water Fee (as measured in acre/feet) and the
secondary water requirements for the Project (as measured in acre/feet). If, however, the Project requires
less water than was was previously [purchased from the City][dedicated to the City] in connection with the
Original Plat, then the City shall reimburse Developer in an amount equal to the difference between the
Prior Water Fee (as measured in dollars) and the culinary water requirements for the Project (as measured
in dollars and determined at the time the Prior Water Fee was [paid][dedicated] to the City).

        7.    Application Reviews; Concurrent Submittals. Developer shall prepare and submit a
preliminary site plan application to the City for review prior to the Developer’s submittal and the City’s
review of any plat applications for the Project. City shall review all applications for the Project consistent
with the City’s routine development review practices and in accordance with all applicable laws and
regulations.

        8.    Minor Changes. Upon a request from the Developer, the Planning Department, after
conferring with the City Manager, may approve minor modifications to the Developer Obligations which
are necessary or advantageous in facilitating more desirable function and aesthetics of the Project.

        9.    Vested Rights and Reserved Legislative Powers.

               9.1. Vested Rights. Consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, City
                    agrees Developer has the vested right to develop and construct the Project during the
                    term of this Agreement in accordance with: (i) the C-R Zone; (ii) the City Code in
                    effect as of the Effective Date; and (iii) the terms of this Agreement.

               9.2. Reserved Legislative Powers. Developer acknowledges that City is restricted in its
                    authority to limit its police power by contract and that the limitations, reservations and
                    exceptions set forth herein are intended to reserve to City all of its police power that
                    cannot be so limited. Notwithstanding the retained power of City to enact such
                    legislation under the police powers, such legislation shall only be applied to modify
                    the vested rights of Developer under this Agreement and with respect to use under the
                    zoning designations as referenced in this Agreement based upon the policies, facts and
                    circumstances meeting the compelling, countervailing public interest exception to the
                    vested rights doctrine in the State of Utah. Any such proposed change affecting the
                    vested rights of the Property shall be of general application to all development activity
                    in the City and Salt Lake County; and, unless in good faith City declares an emergency,
                    Developer shall be entitled to prior written notice and an opportunity to be heard with
                    respect to the proposed change and its applicability to the Property under the

Development Agreement – Riverton Self Storage                                                               4
                     compelling, countervailing public interest exception to the vested rights doctrine.

         10. Term. This Agreement shall run with the land and shall continue in full force and effect until
all obligations hereunder have been fully performed and all rights hereunder fully exercised; provided,
however, that unless the parties mutually agree to extend the term, this Agreement shall not extend further
than a period of fifteen (15) years from its date of recordation in the official records of the Salt Lake County
Recorder’s Office. Upon expiration of this Agreement, the Property shall remain zoned as C-R except that
the only permitted use shall be for self storage. Any other uses (whether permitted or conditional within the
C-R zone at such time) shall require Developer (or any future successor in interest) to submit an application
for a zone change for the Property.

        11. Notices. All Notices, filings, consents, approvals, and other communication provided for
herein or given in connection herewith shall be validly given, filed, made, delivered or served if in writing
and delivered personally or sent by registered or certified U.S. Postal Service mail, return receipt requested,
postage prepaid to the following addresses or to such other addresses as either Party may from time to time
designate in writing and deliver in like manner. Any such change of address shall be given at least ten days
before the date on which the change is to become effective:

                If to City:          City of Riverton
                                     Attn: City Manager
                                     12830 South Redwood Road
                                     Riverton, UT 84065

                With a Copy to:      City of Riverton
                                     Attn: Ryan Carter
                                     12830 South Redwood Road
                                     Riverton, UT 84065

                If to Developer:     Farmhouse Storage, LLC
                                     Attn: Joe Salisbury
                                     14034 South 145 East, Suite 204
                                     Draper, Utah 84020

                With a Copy to:      Farmhouse Storage, LLC
                                     Attn: Chase Andrizzi, Esq
                                     14034 South 145 East, Suite 204
                                     Draper, UT 84020

        12. Mailing Effective. Notices given by mail shall be deemed delivered seventy-two hours
following deposit with the U.S. Postal Service in the manner set forth above.

        13. No Waiver. Any Party’s failure to enforce any provision of this Agreement shall not
constitute a waiver of the right to enforce such provision. The provisions may be waived only in writing by
the Party intended to be benefited by the provisions, and a waiver by a Party of a breach hereunder by the
other Party shall not be construed as a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or other provisions.

       14. Headings. The descriptive headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for
convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any provision this

Development Agreement – Riverton Self Storage                                                                 5
Agreement.

         15. Authority. The Parties to this Agreement represent that they have full power and authority
to enter into this Agreement, and that all necessary actions have been taken to give full force and effect to
this Agreement. Developer represents and warrants it is fully formed and validly existing under the laws of
the State of Utah, and that it is duly qualified to do business in the State of Utah and is in good standing
under applicable state laws. Developer and City warrant to each other that the individuals executing this
Agreement on behalf of their respective Party are authorized and empowered to bind the Party on whose
behalf each individual is signing. Developer represents to City that by entering into this Agreement
Developer has bound all persons and entities having a legal or equitable interest to the terms of this
Agreement as of the Effective Date.

        16. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with the Exhibits attached hereto, documents
referenced herein and all regulatory approvals given by City for the Property contain the entire agreement
of the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede any prior promises, representations,
warranties, inducements or understandings between the Parties which are not contained in such agreements,
regulatory approvals and related conditions.

        17. Amendment. This Agreement may be amended in whole or in part with respect to all or any
portion of the Property by the mutual written consent of the Parties or by their successors-in-interest or
assigns. Any such amendment to this Agreement shall be recorded in the official records of the Salt Lake
County Recorder’s Office.

        18. Severability. If any of the provisions of this Agreement are declared void or unenforceable,
such provision shall be severed from this Agreement. This Agreement shall otherwise remain in full force
and effect provided the fundamental purpose of this Agreement and Developer’s ability to complete the
development of the Property as set forth in the Concept Plan is not defeated by such severance.

        19. Governing Law. The laws of the State of Utah shall govern the interpretation and
enforcement of this Agreement. The Parties shall agree that the venue for any action commenced in
connection with this Agreement shall be proper only in a court of competent jurisdiction located in Salt
Lake County, Utah. The Parties hereby expressly waive any right to object to such choice of law or venue.

         20. Remedies. If either Party breaches any provision of this Agreement, the non-defaulting Party
shall be entitled to all remedies available both at law and in equity.

        21. Attorney’s Fees and Costs. If either Party brings legal action either because of a breach of
this Agreement or to enforce a provision of this Agreement, the prevailing Party shall be entitled to
reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs.

         22. Binding Effect. The benefits and burdens of this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall
inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective heirs, legal representatives, successors in interest and
assigns. This Agreement shall be incorporated by reference in any instrument purporting to convey an
interest in the Property.

        23. No Third Party Rights. The obligations of Developer and City set forth in this Agreement
shall not create any rights in or obligations to any other persons or parties except to the extent otherwise

Development Agreement – Riverton Self Storage                                                                  6
provided herein.

        24. Assignment. Developer may freely assign this Agreement, in which case the assignor or
successor-in-interest shall be fully liable under this Agreement. Developer shall remain obligated for the
performance of this Agreement until it receives a written release from the City. The City shall grant a
written release upon a showing that the Assignee is financially and otherwise capable of performing the
obligations of the Agreement.

        25. No Agency Created. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall create any partnership, joint
venture, or agency relationship between the Parties.

         26. Dispute Resolution. In the event of a dispute regarding the meaning, administration or
implementation of this Development Agreement the parties shall meet and confer and attempt to resolve
the dispute. If this is unsuccessful the parties shall engage in formal mediation within thirty days of the
unsuccessful meeting. The parties shall mutually agree upon a single mediator and Developer shall pay the
fees of the mediator. If the dispute remains unresolved after mediation the Parties may seek relief in the
Third District Court for Salt Lake County, State of Utah.

        27. Table of Exhibits. The following exhibits attached hereto and referred to herein are hereby
incorporated herein and made a part of this Agreement for all purposes as if fully set forth herein:

         Exhibit A         Legal Description
         Exhibit B         Concept Plan
         Exhibit C         City Code: C-R Zone Provisions
         Exhibit D         Design Standards
         Exhibit E         Fencing Plan
         Exhibit F         Phase 1 Map




                                     [signatures on following pages]




Development Agreement – Riverton Self Storage                                                            7
        To evidence the Parties’ agreement to this Agreement, each Party has executed it on the date stated
under that Party’s name, with this Agreement being effective on the date stated in Section 3.


                                                             CITY OF RIVERTON


                                                Signature:

                                            Print Name:

                                                    Title:

                                                    Date:



APPROVED AS TO FORM



Office of the City Attorney




STATE OF UTAH                   )
                                :ss
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE             )

On this ___ day of ________________, 2025, personally appeared before me _______________________,
whose identity is personally known to me (or proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence) and who by me
duly sworn/affirmed, did say that they are the ________________ of the City of Riverton and that said
document was signed by them on behalf of the City of Riverton by Authority of its City Council, and they
further acknowledged to me that the City of Riverton executed the same.




                                                             NOTARY PUBLIC




Development Agreement – Riverton Self Storage                                                            8
                                                             DEVELOPER
                                                             ______________________, LLC
                                                             A Utah limited liability company


                                                Signature:

                                            Print Name:

                                                    Title:

                                                    Date:




STATE OF UTAH                   )
                                :ss
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE             )

On this ___ day of _________________, 2025, personally appeared before me ______________________,
whose identity is personally known to me (or proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence) and who by me
duly sworn/affirmed, did say that they are the Manager of __________________, LLC, a Utah limited
liability company, and that said document was signed by them on behalf of _____________________, LLC
by authority of its governing body, and they further acknowledged to me that they executed the same.



                                                             NOTARY PUBLIC




Development Agreement – Riverton Self Storage                                                         9
                                                EXHIBIT A
                                         (Property Legal Description)

A portion of the Mckenzie Park Estates Subdivision, Plat A and located in the Southwest Quarter of Section 29,
Township 3 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base & Meridian, described as follows

Beginning at a point located S89°57'17"E along the quarter section line 283.00 feet from the West Quarter Corner of
Section 29, Township 3 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian; thence S89°57'17"E 214.09 feet to the
west right-of-way of Bangerter Highway; thence S00°03'56"W along said right-of-way 669.25 feet; thence N89°56'54"W
454.47 feet; thence N00°09'32"W 364.20 feet; thence S89°57'17"E 150.00 feet; thence N00°09'32"W 152.50 feet;
thence S89°57'17"E 93.00 feet; thence N00°09'32"W 152.50 feet to the point of beginning.

                                                                                            Contains: ±5.63 acres.
 EXHIBIT B
(Concept Plan)




[to be inserted]
    EXHIBIT C
(C-R Zone Provisions)




   [to be inserted]
 EXHIBIT D
Design Standards




 [to be inserted]
EXHIBIT E
Fencing Plan




[to be inserted]
 EXHIBIT F
 Phase 1 Map




[to be inserted]
