                             MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:           Planning Department
Date:           April 6, 2021
Subject:        Ordinance 21-08, Proposed rezone of existing 4.28 acre Riverton City
                park located at 1170 W Timp Vista Drive from R-3 to P/OS (Parks/Open
                Space), Proposed by Riverton City


On March 11, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this proposed rezone.
Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission recommended the
following motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 21-08, rezoning an existing 4.28 acres City Park located
at 1170 West Timp Vista Drive from R-3 to P/OS (Parks and Open Space).
Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone of about 4.28-acres located at 1170 West Timp Vista
Drive. This property is a city owned park known as “Margaret Park”. This rezone request was
initiated by city staff to change the existing zoning of R-3 to Parks and Open Space. R-3 is a
single family residential zone. Parks and Open Space is the zone for city and privately owned
parks or open space.

The R-3 zoning was left in place on the park property when the subdivision was originally
developed in the 90’s. The rezone will NOT change the use or future plans of this park, rather it
signals the City’s commitment to maintaining the area as a park or open space. Furthermore,
this rezone will eliminate confusion for people looking at the zoning map, and give potential
developers, home buyers and appraisers accurate information about this property.

The City approved similar rezones in 2019 for portions of the Main Park and Roi Hardy Park to
make those entire parks zone Parks and Open Space.

The Planning Commission, following a review of this application, voted to recommend approval.
Notices for this hearing were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site, published in
the newspaper and posted on the City’s web-page. While no public comments were offered at
the Planning Commission hearing, a few comments were received electronically and are included
herein.
Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1. Area Zoning        2. Proposed Zoning
Report by: JL
3/23/2021
rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
Aspen Court
 R-3
Subdivision                      R-3
• 4 lot subdivision
                          P&OS                P&OS
• Private lane
• Zoned RR-22 R-4                      R-4
    (SFR-1/2 acre lots)
• Approved by the PC in
  April 9, 2020 PC
  Meeting.



      Existing Zoning             Proposed Zoning
rivertonutah.gov
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
March 11, 2021

glass, or decorative concrete. Glass may only be used when the wall is a minimum of 20
feet from any parking or drive aisle. Entries and entryway features that extend to the floor
may be excluded from this distance requirement as approved by the Planning Commission
and may not constitute more than 20% of the length of the elevation. Exterior details were
discussed.

Commissioner Brown raised concern with the color palette and asked if the proposal is
required to blend with surrounding buildings. She was in favor of consistency throughout
and believed the grey would throw off the aesthetics. Mr. Lethbridge was uncertain why the
applicant chose a grey color palette as it would be out of character with the surrounding
buildings. He confirmed that the proposal is not out of compliance with the Ordinance.

Project Architect, Mark Brimhall from AE URBIA Architects and Engineers stated that the
grey exterior was chosen to make it stand out from the other buildings. Reveals were
proposed along the sides of the building and with canopies above the store front entry. He
indicated that grey is preferable but they were open to considering a more cohesive color
palette that blends with the surrounding structures.

A question was raised as to whether this concern should be addressed in the CC&Rs.
Mr. Lethbridge explained that this is all part of the process that commercial proposals are
required to go through. Certain items are strictly defined where others are encouraged. He
stated that the color palette is at the Planning Commission’s discretion but must include a
finding.

A Commission Member expressed opposition to the proposed palette and was inclined to
approve it with colors similar to the existing buildings. Mr. Lethbridge confirmed that staff
will continue to work with the architect as the project progresses.

3.    PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

      a.     REZONE: RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING A REZONE OF “MARGARET
             PARK”, A 4.28-ACRE CITY PARK LOCATED AT 1170 WEST TIMP VISTA
             DRIVE. THE CURRENT ZONING OF THE PROPERTY IS R-3, THE
             PROPOSED ZONING IS PARKS AND OPEN SPACE.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated that this is a rezone that is recognized
by the City that is north of 12600 South and east of 1300 West. He confirmed that residents
within 1,000 feet were notified and no public comments have been received. A visual
rendering was displayed. He explained that when originally designed, the property was left
with the same residential zoning as the surrounding subdivision. This rezone takes the
existing park from the R-3 zone to Parks and Open Space. There is no change to use and
it will be more restrictive and ensure that the property remains within Riverton City’s park
system.

There were no public comments. The public hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
March 11, 2021


Commissioner Russell moved to recommend APPROVAL of Application PLZ-21-4001.
Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       b.     ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE: RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
              CHANGES TO RIVERTON CITY CODE 18.120 “ELDERLY HOUSING
              OVERLAY ZONE”.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated the request is for amendments to the
Elderly Housing Overlay Zone. The item has been discussed with both the Planning
Commission and City Council and is up for action. This zone sits on top of another zone to
allow for elderly housing. The current Overlay zone includes a range of senior housing uses
and is intended for larger facilities with a maximum density of 20 units per acre.

One of the first items proposed with the amendment was to separate the uses.
Mr. Lethbridge explained that there is a distinction between senior housing and a care facility
or nursing home. The proposed amendment would remove those uses from the overlay,
which could no longer be applied to commercial zoning. Nursing homes and care facilities
would be moved into commercial zones as a commercial use and introduce language listing
those types of facilities as conditional. He noted that language was added stating that
individual ownership of living space or rooms is not permitted ultimately limiting this to care
facilities. The Ordinance includes a table of commercial uses detailing various categories
of uses and indicates whether they are permitted, conditional, or not permitted throughout
the City’s commercial zones. The table was to be amended to add those uses making
nursing homes and care facilities conditional in all commercial zones with the exception of
professional office.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that one of the areas of the Elderly Housing Overlay Zone limits how
large or small the project can be. The current Ordinance language specifies not less than
one acre or larger than 10 acres and under this amendment, density and development
standards would be regulated by the underlying zone. He emphasized the importance of
incentivizing elderly housing and ensuring that it is truly geared toward the elderly and not
just facilitating density. The current Ordinance requires a minimum of three physical
characteristics that make the units more accessible and appropriate to seniors while
ensuring that the City justifies any density bonuses. Enforcement was reviewed.

Commissioner Cluff asked for clarification regarding developers potentially coming in and
wanting to take advantage of the density allowance. She asked if the City sees properties
like these being built with the understanding that they are for the elderly and then end up
being standard high-density housing. Mr. Lethbridge explained that is not being seen
throughout Riverton due to the limited number of these types of projects. In planning and
land development, staff anticipates the worst someone could do with the language. They
expect the best but try to anticipate and plan for loopholes and ensure that there is a balance
in place. Doing so helps staff determine when and if the standard is applied.
