                                  RIVERTON CITY, UTAH
                                  RESOLUTION NO. 20-29

  A RESOLUTION AMENDING SECTIONS 3.8 AND 3.9 OF THE RIVERTON CITY
             COUNCIL RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE

       WHEREAS, on March 18, 2020, Governor Herbert issued an Executive Order to
suspend enforcement provisions of the Utah Open Public Meetings Act, Utah Code §§ 52-4-202
and 52-4-207, in response to the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus, and

        WHEREAS, on March 27, 2020, Governor Herbert issued a directive for Utah to “Stay
Safe, Stay Home” which, among other things, directs the public to remain at home while
municipalities conduct Council meetings; and

        WHEREAS, on the date of March 17, 2020, Mayor Staggs of Riverton City, Utah
identified the COVID-19 virus as an imminent threat to the health and safety of Utah residents,
and accordingly declared a local emergency pursuant to Utah Code §53-2a-208; and

        WHEREAS, The Riverton City Council finds and determines that the Executive Order
issued by Governor Herbert enables municipal government meetings to be conducted while
respecting other emergency orders issued to prohibit the assembly of the public at a City Council
meeting; and

       WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council had adopted the Riverton City Council Rules of
Order and Procedure (the “Rules”) pursuant to state law, which governs the manner in which
meetings are conducted in compliance with the Utah Open Public Meetings Act; and

        WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-3-606, permits adoption of amendments to the Rules from
time to time; and

       WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council finds and determines that an amendment to the
Rules is necessary to implement the March 18, 2020 Executive Order of Governor Herbert;

       NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Governing Body of Riverton City as
follows:

1. Amendment. Section 3.4 and 3.5 of the Riverton City Council Rules of Order and
   Procedure is hereby amended to read as follows:
   3.8 Electronic Council Meetings

       1. Conditions, Elements. Utah law authorizes the City Council to hold meetings
          electronically. The law defines an electronic meeting as a public meeting convened or
          conducted by means of a telephonic, telecommunications or computer conference. In
          order to participate, members of the Council must have the ability to communicate with
          all other members, either verbally or electronically, so that each Council Member can
          hear or see the communication. Public hearings are also allowed, as part of the
          electronic meeting. However, as with any public meeting, electronic meetings must be
          properly noticed in compliance with the Open Meetings Act and in accordance with the
          terms of the COVID-19 temporary modifications noted herein.
   2. Limitations. For those instances, when the Council elects to hold an electronic
      meeting:

      a. Reserved.

      b. the meeting will be called only for a declared City emergency, to accommodate
         Council Members who are traveling outside the City on official City business, to
         accommodate the Mayor or Council Members who are electing to remain away
         from the physical location of Council Meetings due to matters related to COVID-
         19, or other unique circumstances that make such a meeting in the public interest;

      c. Reserved. the meeting will be held within Riverton City Hall, or at the Emergency
         Operations Center of the Fire Station of the Unified Fire Authority, if necessary
         and at a facility that allows the public to attend, monitor and participate in open
         portions of the meeting;

      d. audio equipment will be used so that comments of each Council Member
         participating electronically will be audible to those attending, viewing, or
         monitoring the meeting; and

      e. reasonable but diligent efforts shall be made to notify and accommodate Council
         Members who are traveling outside the City on official City business so that they
         can participate in such a meeting, if they desire to do so.

   3. Meetings in Compliance with Governor Herbert’s Executive Order issued on
      March 18, 2020. When the City Council holds electronic meetings it shall:

                  (a) Provide a means by which interested persons and the public may
                      remotely hear or observe, live, by audio or video transmission the open
                      portion of the meeting;
                  (b) If comments from the public will be accepted during the electronic
                      meeting, provide a means by which interested persons and the public
                      participating remotely may ask questions and make comments by
                      electronic means in the open portion of the meeting.

          f. The above noted modifications shall remain in effect until the termination of
             the COVID-19 related emergency declaration.
3.9 Citizen Comments at Council Meetings

   1. Reserved.

   2. Reserved.

   3. Address and Phone Numbers. In order to permit follow-up by City staff, each person
      addressing the Council will be requested to provide their address; however, that person
      or the presiding officer may elect to have their information given only to the City, in
      writing, and on a card provided by the City Recorder, if privacy or security is a concern.
       4. Written Supplementary Information. Due to the limitation on the time available for
          an oral presentation, any person wishing to communicate is encouraged to submit any
          written materials or comments to the Council by submitting them through the City
          Recorder, either before or at the time of the meeting he or she participates in.

2. Legislative Copy. A Legislative Copy which delineates the amendments made in Sections 1
   and 2 of this Resolution is attached as Exhibit A to this Resolution.

3. Effective Date, Termination. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its
   passage and shall remain in effect until Governor Herbert terminates the state of emergency
   declared by executive Order No. 2020-1.

    PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, this 7th day of April 2020
by the following vote:

                                              YES    NO
       City Council Member Tish Buroker       ____   ____
       City Council Member Troy McDougal      ____   ____
       City Council Member Tawnee McCay       ____   ____
       City Council Member Sheldon Stewart    ____   ____
       City Council Member Claude Wells III   ____   ____


                                                     RIVERTON CITY

                       [SEAL]

                                                     ____________________________________
       ATTEST:                                       Trent Staggs, Mayor



       ____________________________________
       Virginia Loader, Recorder
                                        EXHIBIT A
                                       Legislative Copy


3.10        Electronic Council Meetings

   4. Conditions, Elements. Utah law authorizes the City Council to hold meetings electronically.
      The law defines an electronic meeting as a public meeting convened or conducted by means
      of a telephonic, telecommunications or computer conference. In order to participate,
      members of the Council must have the ability to communicate with all other members, either
      verbally or electronically, so that each Council Member can hear or see the communication.
      Public hearings are also allowed, as part of the electronic meeting. However, as with any
      public meeting, electronic meetings must be properly noticed in compliance with the Open
      Meetings Act and accordance with the terms of the COVID-19 temporary modifications noted
      herein.

   5. Limitations. For those instances, when the Council elects to hold an electronic meeting:

       g. Reserved. the meeting will be held with a quorum (3 members) physically present at the
          same physical location;

       h. the meeting will be called only for a declared City emergency, to accommodate Council
          Members who are traveling outside the City on official City business, to accommodate the
          Mayor or Council Members who are electing to remain away from the physical location
          of Council Meetings due to matters related to COVID-19, or other unique circumstances
          that make such a meeting in the public interest;

       i.   Reserved. the meeting will be held within Riverton City Hall, or at the Emergency
            Operations Center of the Fire Station of the Unified Fire Authority, if necessary and at a
            facility that allows the public to attend, monitor and participate in open portions of the
            meeting;

       j.   audio equipment will be used so that comments of each Council Member participating
            electronically will be audible to those attending, viewing, or monitoring the meeting; and

       k. reasonable but diligent efforts shall be made to notify and accommodate Council
          Members who are traveling outside the City on official City business so that they can
          participate in such a meeting, if they desire to do so.

   6. Meetings in Compliance with Governor Herbert’s Executive Order issued on March 18, 2020.
      When the City Council holds electronic meetings it shall:

                    (a) Provide a means by which interested persons and the public may remotely
                        hear or observe, live, by audio or video transmission the open portion of the
                        meeting;
                    (b) If comments from the public will be accepted during the electronic meeting,
                        provide a means by which interested persons and the public participating
                        remotely may ask questions and make comments by electroci means in the
                        open portion of the meeing.
           l.   The above noted modifications shall remain in effect until the terminantion of the
                COVID-19 related emergency declaration.

3.11       Citizen Comments at Council Meetings

   5. Reserved. Citizen Comment. During the citizen comment portion of Council meetings,
      members of the audience will be permitted to address the Council concerning any matter, if
      it pertains to City business or a matter over which the Council has jurisdiction, time
      permitting. However, if the matter to be discussed is the subject of a public hearing, the
      citizen will be required to speak when that hearing is conducted and public comments
      presented. Audience members addressing the Council and/or Mayor will be called forward
      to the podium by the presiding officer of the Council meeting. Each speaker is required to
      speak into the microphone at the podium, clearly state their name and indicate if they are a
      resident of Riverton City. The Council will allow three (3) minutes to address the Council,
      unless the Council, allocates more time in a content-neutral and uniform manner.

   6. Reserved. At the beginning of the formal Council meeting, those wishing to comment will
      be called forward to the podium. The presiding officer may take a poll of those wishing to
      speak for or against an issue, in determining how many individuals or spokespersons to
      accommodate. When groups are going to speak to the same issue, the presiding officer will
      request a spokesperson(s) to represent that position as an aid and to facilitate the efficient
      and effective use of the limited time available at the meeting. The order of presentations
      shall be at the sole discretion of the presiding officer; however, the presiding officer should
      give preference to those persons who have requested in writing, before the commencement
      of the meeting, to be heard or on the agenda. At that time, the Council may direct the City
      Manager to assist the citizen on the issue, which could include future formal action by the
      Council. Citizens may also supplement their comments by providing documents or
      supplement their oral statements by filing written comments.

   7. Address and Phone Numbers. In order to permit follow-up by City staff, each person
      addressing the Council will be requested to provide their address; however, that person or
      the presiding officer may elect to have their information given only to the City, in writing, and
      on a card provided by the City Recorder, if privacy or security is a concern.

   8. Written Supplementary Information. Due to the limitation on the time available for an oral
      presentation, any person wishing to communicate is encouraged to submit any written
      materials or comments to the Council by submitting them through the City Recorder, either
      before or at the time of the meeting he or she participates in.
