                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            May 6, 2025
Subject:         Ordinance 25-14, Amending Riverton City Code Section 18.135.200, Temporary
                 Commercial Uses, Addressing Temporary Commercial Uses on Residential
                 Property, Amendments Proposed by Riverton City


On March 27, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this proposed text
amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted to
recommend approval with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance #25-14, amending Riverton City Code Section
18.135.200, Temporary Commercial Uses, addressing temporary commercial uses on residential
property as shown in Exhibit A.

Background

In response to feedback received from the City Council at the previous hearing, the
proposed language has been further amended. Language was added clarifying the lighting
standards, the requirement for a conditional use permit was removed, and the limitation
on residentially zoned properties to “holiday” uses only was removed. The attached
amendment language reflects these changes, and reads as follows:

         (1) Temporary commercial uses shall be defined as commercial uses which do not exceed 60
         days in duration and which do not require permanent structures or improvements which are
         not already established with an approved permanent use. Such uses may include, but are not
         limited to, shaved ice stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands. A temporary
         commercial use may only be conducted on a commercially zoned parcel or on
         vacant/undeveloped residentially zoned property, except as described in RCC 18.190.090(16).
         Temporary commercial uses shall not cause or create a nuisance or hazard and shall
         conform to all requirements of this title. All trash will be removed and the property will be
         restored to a clean condition after the temporary commercial use has been terminated. The
         review process for temporary commercial uses shall consider potential impacts and issues
         including noise, dust, odors, lights, access and parking, emergency services, and similar
         issues. In addition to other relevant requirements, lighting shall be directed downward and
         away from adjacent residential properties, and lighting shall otherwise comply with Section



Report by: TJP
5/1/2025
         18.135.300(5)(c)(iii). [This section prohibits blinking, flashing, or similar lights within 100 feet
         of an adjacent residential property].

         (2) Temporary commercial uses can be approved by the planning department. At the
         discretion of the planning manager temporary commercial uses may be referred to the
         planning commission as conditional temporary commercial uses. In such cases the applicant
         will be responsible for the noticing fees. Permitting for a proposed temporary commercial use
         on a residential property shall be valid for a single 60 day period. Future uses on the same
         property must receive a new permit.

         (3) Temporary commercial uses on residential properties are limited to property which has
         frontage on and direct access to an arterial or major collector road, as defined by Riverton
         City. Access for temporary uses on residential properties must be from the arterial/major
         collector road unless such access is prohibited or otherwise restricted and alternative access
         is approved by the City.

Original Report

Riverton City periodically reviews sections of its land use code, and staff has been directed to
prepare such a review of Section 18.135.200 which regulates temporary commercial uses such
as Christmas tree lots, fireworks stands, and similar uses. Specifically, the review has examined
current standards which limit such uses to commercially zoned property. The code currently
reads:

         (1) Temporary commercial uses shall be defined as commercial uses which do not exceed 60
         days in duration and which do not require permanent structures or improvements which are
         not already established with an approved permanent use. Such uses may include, but are not
         limited to, shaved ice stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands. A temporary
         commercial use may only be conducted on a commercially zoned parcel, except as described
         in RCC 18.190.090(16). Temporary commercial uses shall not cause or create a nuisance or
         hazard and shall conform to all requirements of this title. All trash will be removed and the
         property will be restored to a clean condition after the temporary commercial use has been
         terminated.

         (2) Temporary commercial uses can be approved by the planning department. At the
         discretion of the planning manager temporary commercial uses may be referred to the
         planning commission as conditional temporary commercial uses. In such cases the applicant
         will be responsible for the noticing fees.

The limitation to commercial property was made in part due to concerns with traffic volumes,
hours of operation, lighting, and similar issues which potentially create impacts detrimental to
residential areas. Should the City wish to extend temporary commercials to certain residential
properties where such impacts could be mitigated, limitations could be adopted to further minimize
potential impacts. Proposed limitations are:
    • Limit temporary commercial uses to vacant/undeveloped residential properties.
    • Limit temporary commercial uses to residential properties which have direct access to a
       major road, as defined in Riverton City Code

Report by: TJP
5/1/2025
    •    Require a Conditional Use Permit for any temporary commercial use on a residential
         property.
    •    Limit allowed temporary commercial uses on residential properties to uses directly
         associated with holiday sales, namely Christmas tree lots, fireworks stands, and pumpkin
         patch/sales.

The attached amendment language reflects these limitations, and reads as follows:

         (1) Temporary commercial uses shall be defined as commercial uses which do not exceed 60
         days in duration and which do not require permanent structures or improvements which are
         not already established with an approved permanent use. Such uses may include, but are not
         limited to, shaved ice stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands. A temporary
         commercial use may only be conducted on a commercially zoned parcel or on
         vacant/undeveloped residentially zoned property, except as described in RCC 18.190.090(16).
         Temporary commercial uses shall not cause or create a nuisance or hazard and shall
         conform to all requirements of this title. All trash will be removed and the property will be
         restored to a clean condition after the temporary commercial use has been terminated. The
         review process for temporary commercial uses shall consider potential impacts and issues
         including noise, dust, odors, lights, access and parking, emergency services, and similar
         issues.

         (2) Temporary commercial uses can be approved by the planning department. At the
         discretion of the planning manager temporary commercial uses may be referred to the
         planning commission as conditional temporary commercial uses. In such cases the applicant
         will be responsible for the noticing fees. A conditional use permit approved by the Planning
         Commission is required for a proposed temporary commercial use on a residential property
         and shall be valid for a single 60 day period. Future uses on the same property must receive
         a new permit.

         (3) Temporary commercial uses on residential properties are limited to property which has
         frontage on and direct access to an arterial or major collector road, as defined by Riverton
         City. Temporary commercial uses on residential property are limited to uses directly related
         to holiday sales, namely Christmas tree lots, fireworks stands, and pumpkin patch/sales.

The Planning Commission voted to recommend approval of the proposed language. Any
additional language, including changes to the proposed amendment, can be included in a motion.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
   1. Draft amendment to 18.135.200




Report by: TJP
5/1/2025
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             10
March 27, 2025


meeting, waiting for the City Council’s feedback prior to deciding on a course of action or
making a recommendation with changes.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich stated that the
townhome project on 11800 South is on 1.04 acres. However, it is a special circumstance
because it is being added to the existing Sycamore Glenn subdivision and will have the
same Special District (“SD”) designation. Most of the lots on Redwood Road would meet
the 0.8-acre minimum and have been designated High-Density Residential in the General
Plan for over 25 years.

After further discussion, it was agreed that the RM-6 Zone should remain unchanged, and
both RM-8 and RM-8-D should have an exception for a minimum lot size of 0.8 acres on
major thoroughfares.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of amendments to minimum lot size for Multi-family Developments in Sections
18.45.050; 18.50.050; 18.53.050; 18.55.050; 18.57.050; and 18.60.050 of the Riverton
City Code, with the following changes:

      1.     There should be no changes to the RM-6 Zone.

      2.     RM-8 and RM-8-D Zones should be changed to a 2-acre minimum, but
             allow an exception of a minimum lot size of 0.8-acres on main
             thoroughfares.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      D.     “TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL USES,” PLZ-25-5003, RIVERTON CITY IS
             PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE
             RELATING TO TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL USES, FOUND IN SECTION
             18.135.200.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the proposed changes to Temporary Commercial Uses were
being introduced in response to discussions between Mayor Staggs and the City Council
regarding uses like Christmas tree lots and fireworks stands. Current City Code allows those
uses on commercial properties with restrictions. Because can present challenges in the
allowed areas and compete with existing businesses, they are only allowed as a temporary
uses.

The current Code states that temporary commercial uses may only be conducted on a
commercially-zoned parcel except as described in the Home Occupation Ordinance, which
allows outdoor seasonal retail sales such as Christmas trees, fireworks, pumpkin patches,
haunted houses, and corn mazes only when produced entirely on the site. If someone grows
Christmas trees or pumpkins onsite, for example, that would be an allowed Home
Occupation.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               11
March 27, 2025



If the City were to expand temporary commercial uses to residential properties, the following
limitations were proposed:

   •   Limit temporary commercial uses to vacant/undeveloped residential properties.

   •   Limit temporary commercial uses to residential properties which have direct access
       to a major road, as defined in Riverton City Code.

   •   Require a Conditional Use Permit for any temporary commercial use on a residential
       property.

   •   Limit allowed temporary commercial uses on residential properties to uses directly
       associated with holiday sales, namely Christmas tree lots, fireworks stands, and
       pumpkin patches.

Mr. Prestwich indicated that the purpose of the amendment would be to allow traditional
types of holiday sales that were previously conducted on vacant commercial lots. A potential
concern that cannot be addressed in the City Code but should be considered is that
temporary conditions have a way of becoming permanent. Ideas to ensure that the uses do
not become permanent were included in the proposed amendment. The full text of the
Amended Code was then reviewed.

18.135.200 Temporary Commercial Uses

       1.    Temporary commercial uses shall be defined as commercial uses which do
             not exceed 60 days in duration and which do not require permanent structures
             or improvements which are not already established with an approved
             permanent use. Such uses may include but are not limited to, shaved ice
             stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands. A temporary commercial
             use may only be conducted on a commercially zoned parcel or on
             vacant/undeveloped residential property, except as described in RCC
             18.190.090(16). Temporary commercial uses shall not cause or create a
             nuisance or hazard and shall conform to all requirements of this title. All trash
             will be removed and the property will be restored to a clean condition after the
             temporary commercial use has been terminated.

       2.    Temporary commercial uses can be approved by the Planning Department.
             At the discretion of the planning manager, temporary commercial uses may be
             referred to the Planning Commission as conditional temporary commercial
             uses. In such cases, the applicant will be responsible for the noticing fees. A
             Conditional Use Permit approved by the Planning Commission is required for
             a proposed temporary commercial use on a residential property.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              12
March 27, 2025


      3.     Temporary commercial uses on residential properties are limited to property
             which has frontage on and direct access to an arterial or major collector road,
             as defined by Riverton City. Temporary commercial uses on residential
             property are limited to uses directly related to holiday sales, namely Christmas
             tree lots, fireworks stands, and pumpkin patch/sales.

      4.     Temporary commercial uses shall obtain and/or provide the following:

             a. A Riverton City Business License for commercial uses.
             b. Property owner’s authorization.
             c. Building or electrical permit (if necessary).
             d. Plot plan showing the location of the use, buildings and structures,
                    setbacks, parking, access to public streets and adjacent uses.
             e. Hours of operation.
             f. Salt Lake Valley health department approval (if necessary).
             g. Fire Department approval (if necessary).
             h. Mass gathering permit (if necessary).

Chair Park asked what areas of the City the amendment would impact. Mr. Prestwich stated
that potential locations include the vacant parcels along Redwood Road where the Utah
Department of Transportation demolished the homes and sold the properties. In response
to his follow-up question, Mr. Prestwich stated that the use is specified as temporary and a
time limit of 60 days in the proposed Code, so any use beyond 60 days would be in violation.
Building by acquiescence is not a concern.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich stated that Staff did not
discuss produce stands or farmers markets, and there have been no requests for that type
of use in residential zones. They are not holiday businesses, and allowing non-holiday uses
on vacant residential lots may defeat the goal of having those parcels developed. The term
“namely” in Item 3 was included to specify that only the stated uses are allowed.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that ice
cream stands would be prohibited in residential zones, but would be allowed in commercial
zones. No changes were proposed to temporary uses in commercial zones.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of amendments to the Riverton City Code Section 18.135.200, Temporary Commercial
Uses, addressing temporary commercial uses on residential property, as presented.
Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

Chair Park thanked the Commissioners for their thoughtful discussion on the evening’s
Agenda items.
