       D.     MCDOUGAL DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT – PLZ-22-4102,
              ESTABLISHES REQUIREMENTS, STANDARDS, AND PARAMETERS
              FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF APPROXIMATELY 3.2 ACRES LOCATED
              AT 13040 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD, INCLUDING APPROVAL OF AN
              EIGHT (8) LOT PRIVATE LAND SUBDIVISION ON THAT PROPERTY.
              PROPOSED BY RIVERTON CITY AND CONTINUED FROM 8.11.22
              MEETING.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and
explained that the item was carried over from a previous meeting. The property is located
at 13040 South Redwood Road. He explained that approval of the application would include
the adoption of additional language and standards within the Development Agreement and
approval of the eight-lot subdivision with all lots accessing a private lane. Since the request
involves a Development Agreement, the Planning Commission recommendation would be
forwarded to the City Council for final action.

The property is located at the intersection of Riverton Ranch and Redwood Roads. The
subdivision accesses Riverton Ranch Road via a private drive and the applicant proposed
a gate as part of the development. Mr. Prestwich reported that the lane, configuration, and
location of the gate were reviewed by the Riverton City Unified Fire Authority ("UFA")
Representative. The lot sizes were consistent with the underlying R-3 Zone, with the
exception of the corner lot. Mr. Prestwich reported that there was a pre-existing remnant
parcel that was left when UDOT widened Redwood Road. The applicant had worked with
the property owner to address that issue and expand. The one lot was slightly smaller at
11,645 square feet. The remaining lots all exceed the 14,000 square-foot minimum in the
zone. Mr. Prestwich noted that the Development Agreement allowed for that type of lot
arrangement. However, as previously discussed, the lot yield would not increase.

One of the issues brought up during the last discussion related to fencing. Current plans
showed that the vinyl fence along the south property line would remain. The Ordinance
requires a six-foot masonry wall, which was incorporated into the approval. Mr. Prestwich
noted that several issues were brought up during the last meeting related to the subdivision
itself. For instance, how trash collection would be handled. The applicant was present at
the Planning Commission Meeting and could address those specific concerns. Mr.
Prestwich reiterated that the proposed action was for the Commission to forward a
recommendation to the City Council. Staff included two Conditions of Approval.

Mr. Carter pointed out that there had been a public hearing at the last Planning Commission
Meeting. Good feedback was received from residents. Concerns were expressed about
the impact the project would have on the roadway immediately to the south of the project.
The comments also focused on snow management, waste collection, and recycling. In the
packet, there was a separate document, which was the Amended Development Agreement.
On Page 7 of the Agreement, there were redline changes, which made it clear that those
needs would be managed on-site.

Commissioner Cannon asked about the driveway to Lot 101. He wanted to understand if it
was inside or outside the subdivision. Commissioner Cannon also asked if there was a way
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
August 25, 2022

to restrict the rear access to Lot 101. It was close to Redwood Road and he worried about
the additional traffic. Mr. Prestwich wondered if Commissioner Cannon wanted to restrict
the ability for there to be a driveway directly off of Redwood Road. This was confirmed.
Mr. Prestwich explained that it could be included as a recommendation but he did not believe
UDOT would allow that type of access. The suggested language was read “Lots in the
subdivision can only access off of the interior private lane.”

Commissioner Rushton asked if the lane width was 32 feet, which would allow for parking
on both sides of the street. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that was the case. The main portion of
the lane was that width but it does narrow on the two easternmost driveways to 25 feet. That
portion of the lane only services Lots 105 and 106. The majority of the lane allows for
parking. Commissioner Rushton asked if the Homeowners Association (“HOA”) could
actively manage parking in the area to ensure that it does not spill out onto Riverton Ranch
Road. Mr. Carter explained that it is not lawful for vehicles to be stored on the street for
longer than 48 hours. It is the responsibility of the Riverton Police Department to enforce
that. If the Commission does not want temporary parking within the subdivision on the
streets, the curb would need to be painted red. This is a low-density project and he did not
foresee a lot of events spilling out onto Riverton Ranch Road.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the majority of the lots are approximately 17,000 square feet.
This is above the 14,000-square-foot minimum. The lots themselves are large enough for
wider driveways and larger garages. There was also better potential for off-street parking in
this area than in smaller lot subdivisions. Commissioner Park had concerns about potential
parking in the turn lane. It was noted that parking would not be permitted in a lane that was
marked. There could be signage to state that no parking was permitted west of the entrance
to the subdivision if desired by the Commission.

The applicant, Ryan McDougal, reported that the intention was to avoid negatively impacting
the neighbors. He had heard concerns about the waste and parking. When the private
street was first proposed, it was going to be 25 feet. To address the concerns with parking
and access, it was widened to a typical Riverton subdivision road width. This would allow
for quite a bit of parking within the development itself. There would also be a requirement
for three-car garages at the homes that could accommodate that. Mr. McDougal did not see
that the development would have an outsized impact compared to the neighborhood around
it. The lot sizes were comparable to the lot sizes nearby. He did not feel that the
development would be any more parking intensive than what already exists.

Commissioner Park noted that there had been concerns about access to Lot 101. The
Commission asked if it would be inside or outside of the gated area. Mr. McDougal stated
that he has an agreement with the landowner who owns the smaller parcel. He would sell
the ground to double the lot size of her existing parcel so there would be a more buildable
lot. Part of the agreement was that the owner would have access to the private street and
participate in costs for connections and impact fees. That owner would be part of the
development and pay for her share of the development costs. The driveway access would
be inside the gate. Commissioner Breinholt appreciated that Mr. McDougal had worked with
the property owner to make a previously undevelopable lot something that could be
developed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               3
August 25, 2022


Gary DeRose reported he owns the property that goes around the subject property. There
were a few things he felt should be discussed. For instance, flood control. He has irrigated
the property for several years and the water all goes to the east and north. Nothing about
flood control had been discussed so far. Mr. DeRose was concerned that the water will
come onto his property once the fence is installed. He also stressed the importance of the
fencing material. It needs to have the integrity to accommodate horses and other animals.
He also wondered what it would look like and if it will match other fences in the area. Since
there are no sidewalks in the subdivision, children in the area will need to walk on asphalt
rather than a proper walkway. He believed that a concrete walkway on one side of the street
should be considered to make sure the area is safe.

Al Bueller lives across the street from the development. He was not opposed to the
development because he believed it would be a good use of the land. Mr. Bueller wanted
to understand whether the hammerhead would be increased to the 32-foot lane width as
well to allow for parking there. Multiple generations now living in homes, which means there
are often a lot of vehicles to account for. He wanted to make sure that parking does not
become a problem. It was important for parking in the development to be contained and not
turn into a burden for other residents. The plans showed that there would be three inches
of asphalt. He was concerned that would not wear well.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton noted that there would be parking on both sides with a single lane
for traffic. He believed there would be times when the number of vehicles will impact the
entire development. As a result, he felt there should be something in the Development
Agreement to ensure that the developer addresses parking. For example, there could be
regulations through the HOA. While he liked the fact that the Development Agreement has
a separate addendum, parking concerns should be noted. Commissioner Rushton wanted
the HOA to regulate parking. That could be forwarded as a recommendation to the City
Council. The proposed language was as follows:

   •   “The HOA shall undertake the responsibility of regulating parking within the
       subdivision and enforce a 48-hour parking limit on the street.”

Commissioner Park did not share the concern that large gatherings or parties will create
parking issues. There was no way to know who will purchase the lots or how the homes will
be used. He believed homeowners would police themselves and act responsibly. He did
not feel the Commission needed to place additional common-sense requirements onto an
HOA. If there were issues, homeowners would inform the City as necessary. Commissioner
Park noted that at the previous meeting, the issue of flood control was discussed. That
information was included in the Development Plan and should not create a problem for
Mr. DeRose. Commissioner Park asked about fencing requirements. He wanted to
understand if the requirement was six feet above grade. Mr. Prestwich reported that the
City requirement is six feet from finished grade. Sometimes, some slopes create a grade
differential. He did not believe that was the case here.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                            4
August 25, 2022

The Commission further discussed fences and grading. Mr. McDougal noted that the
measurements will be done from the inside of the fence. He believed there was only one
area where the grade was slightly higher. It would not be possible to see directly into a
neighbor’s yard, because the six feet would be measured from the inside the fence.
Mr. Prestwich took note of the concern and explained that City Staff would work with the
applicant and developer as the process moves forward.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application PLZ-22-4102,
"McDougal Development Agreement," to be located at 13040 South Redwood Road,
with the following conditions:

      1.     "Redline" corrections and issues be corrected prior to recordation of the
             Subdivision Plat.

      2.     Solid fencing, consistent with Riverton City's Ordinance requirements
             will be installed on the subdivision boundaries, including solid masonry
             fencing on Redwood Road.

Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion.             The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.
