                            MEMORANDUM
To:             Planning Commission
From:           Development Services Department
Date:           September 15, 2020
Subject:        Resolution No. 20-60 - Approving and Authorizing the Execution of an
                Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Salt Lake County, Town of Alta,
                Town of Brighton, Bluffdale City, Copperton Metro Township, Cottonwood
                Heights City, Draper City, Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Herriman
                City, Holladay City, Kearns Metro Township, Magna Metro Township,
                Midvale City Corp., City of Millcreek, Murray City, City of South Salt Lake,
                and White City Metro Township Relating to the Conduct of the Community
                Development Block Grant Program, Emergency Solutions Grant Program
                and the Home Investment Partnership Program


I move the City Council ADOPT Resolution 20-60, approving and authorizing the execution of
an interlocal cooperation agreement with Salt Lake County relating to the conduct of the
Community Development Block Grant, Emergency Solutions Grant, and Home Investment
Partnership Programs, as shown on the attached exhibit.

Background

Approved interlocal agreements are currently in place between Riverton City and Salt Lake
County regarding the County’s administration of several grant programs, namely the Community
Development Block Grant Program (CDBG), the Emergency Solutions Grant Program (ESG), and
the Home Investment Partnership Program (HOME). We recently received an urgent notice from
Salt Lake County indicating that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD),
who oversees these programs at a federal level, had identified critical deficiencies in the County’s
interlocal agreements with Riverton City and other communities that would impact the County’s
application to renew its “Urban County” qualification. This qualification enables the County to
receive funding allocations through these grant programs. The County asked that Riverton City,
and all other communities included in the interlocal agreements, adopt revisions to those
agreements based on guidance from HUD.

The information received from the County, which explains the required amendments, is included
below. The included resolutions have been reviewed by the City Attorney, and will address the
issues identified by the County.

Report by: JL
9/10/2020
[EMAIL RECEIVED FROM SALT LAKE COUNTY]

This email is to give you a heads-up about an urgent matter that will require your attention
within the next week, and which will require formal action by your Councils prior to
September 18th.

As you are aware, Salt Lake County has been working on the renewal of the Urban County
certification through HUD. The required documents were sent to HUD on June 17th. Salt Lake
County was notified on August 19th that issues were identified which must be addressed PRIOR
to acceptance by HUD. Guidance has been provided regarding language in the three interlocal
cooperation agreements which must be updated before HUD will certify that the interlocal
cooperation agreements meet the requirements in section V of the Notice for urban county
qualification for FY 2021-2023.

We spoke to our HUD representative and members from the HUD legal team this morning to get
additional clarification. As a result, the Salt Lake County District Attorney’s office is currently
working on revising the interlocal agreements as required by HUD. The intention is to combine
the three current interlocal agreements into one new agreement, which will address the following
issues related to Urban County participation in the CDBG, ESG, and HOME programs:

     1) None of the interlocals refer to ESG, although County receives ESG funding.
           a. Interlocal Agreements must state that they cover the CDBG Entitlement program
              “and, where applicable, the HOME Investment Partnership (HOME) and
              Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) Programs (i.e. where the urban county receives
              funding under the ESG Program or receives funding under the HOME program as
              an Urban County or as a member of a HOME Consortium).
           b. Amend to incorporate the required ESG language.


     2) Interlocals use language regarding HOME that varies from the language required by
        HUD at V.D.2 and omit the ESG language at VD3.
            a. Interlocals must include language that a participating ULGL may receive a
                formula allocation under HOME or ESG only through the Urban County.
            b. Amend interlocals to incorporate the required formula grant language.


     3) Interlocal Agreements must provide that they remain in effect until CDBG (and HOME
        and ESG) funds and program income received are expended.
            a. County’s interlocals do not reference ESG even though SLCo receives ESG
                money.
            b. Amend the interlocal agreements to remain in effect until program income is
                received and expended.


     4) County’s interlocal agreements should contain language prescribed by V.G. – the
        reference to “income” should be changed to “program income” and the following
        language must be added: “The County and participating UGLG cannot terminate or
        withdraw from the cooperation agreement while it remains in effect.
Report by: JL
9/10/2020
    5) Interlocals must contain language specifying that pursuant to 24 CFR 570.501(b), the
       UGLG is subject to the same requirements applicable to subrecipients, including the
       requirement of a written agreement as described in 24 CFR 570.503.
           a. Fully incorporate the content in section VK from HUD’s notice, including the
               statement that the participating UGLG’s are subject to the same requirements as
               subrecipients.
Although we do not have the revised agreements for your review yet, we want to put this on your
radar! The DA is working fast to get the approved document to you this week. Also, please be
advised that we have a hard deadline on September 18th, at which time we MUST have the
new interlocal agreements signed and submitted to HUD! If we do not meet this deadline,
we jeopardize the Urban County CDBG, ESG, and HOME allocations! We will be
following up with a phone call to your offices to make sure that we copy appropriate staff for
your respective cities and metro townships, but we are asking you to please ensure that the
updated interlocal agreements are added to the agendas of your council meetings as
necessary to obtain approval and signatures prior to September 18th!

Thank you for your attention to this matter! Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any
questions or concerns!




Karen Kuipers
Community Development Manager
Housing & Community Development




Report by: JL
9/10/2020
