                            MEMORANDUM
To:           Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:         Planning Department
Date:         May 17, 2022
Subject:      Ordinance 22-15 “Kunz Rezone” General Plan Amendment & Rezone of
              Approximately 3.25- Acres Located at 11944 South 3600 West. From the General
              Plan Designation of “Low Density Residential” to “Medium-High Density Residential”,
              and Zoning from R-3, to RM-6 - Nathan and Laura Kunz, Applicant


On April 28, 2022, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this rezone
application. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Commission voted to
recommend approval of this application, with the following recommended motion:
.
I move the City Council approve Ordinance #22-15, changing the General Plan Designation
and Zoning of 3.25-acres located near 11944 South 3600 West to Medium-high Density
Residential and changing the zoning to RM-6.

Background
This is a public hearing for a General Plan Amendment and Rezone application brought by the
applicant for three adjoining parcels totaling 3.25-acres located near 11944 South 3600 West.

The subject property sits on the west side of 3600 West on the north bank of Midas Creek. To
the north of this property is the recently approved Ivory development “Harvest Gardens”. Ivory
Homes rezoned the property that makes up Harvest Gardens to RM-6 SD. During the rezone
hearing it was mentioned that the Kunz property may also want to develop in the near future.
Part of Ivory’s approval was to include a stub road south to Kunz property, but the Kunz
property was not a part of the Ivory rezone, or the Harvest Gardens development.

The subject property is currently zoned R-3, which is a single-family residential zone, with
14,000-sf lots. The same R-3 zoning applies to the subdivision to the west, and the next few
parcels to the south. To the north is the RM-6 SD mentioned above. To the east across 3600
West Street the Zoning is RR-22 and R-2 both single-family residential zones with large lots
over 20,000-sf.

The General Plan has three designations in the area. For properties on the east side of 3600
West the designation is “Estate Density Residential”. On the west side of 3600 West most of
the properties, including the subject properties, are designated “Low Density Residential”. The
exception is the Ivory Harvest Gardens property which is designated “Medium-High Density
Residential”.

The requested General Plan Designation of “Medium-High Density Residential” and rezone to
RM-6 would place the Kunz property in the same zoning as Harvest Gardens. Since the
Harvest Gardens property was already rezoned we can say the Council determined the RM-6
Zone is appropriate for the area. With this application the Council will determine if the same
zoning can be extended south to the north bank of Midas Creek.
The Planning Commission in their review of this item voted to recommend approval, and staff concurs with that
recommendation.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

        1.   Public Notice including Area Map.
        2.   Rezone Application.
        3.   Zoning Map.
        4.   General Plan Map.
General Plan and Zoning Map




                        R-1, RR-22
                        R-1, RR-22, R-2, R-3
                        R-1, RR-22, R-2, R-3, R-4
                        RM-6, RM-8
rivertonutah.gov        RM-8, RM-14, RM-18
Area General Plan
Current General Plan Designation:
Low Density Residential

Requested General Plan Designation:
Medium-High Density Residential




rivertonutah.gov
Area Zoning
Current Zoning:




                                                                  Redwood Road
R-3 (Residential – 14,000-sf lots)




                                                      1830 West
Requested Zoning:
RM-6 (Small Lot development single or
twin homes.)




                                        13400 South




rivertonutah.gov
PC Minutes
                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                  APRIL 28, 2022

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Shelly Cluff, Chair                              Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Keith Breinholt                                  Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Gary Cannon                                      Gordon Miner, City Engineer
John Gilchrist
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Shelly Cluff called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. and reported on
changes to the agenda. The Pledge was led by Commissioner Rushton.

2.     PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

       A.     REZONE, “KUNZ REZONE” A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT AND
              REZONE OF 3.25-ACRES LOCATED NEAR 11944 SOUTH 3600 WEST.
              THE CURRENT ZONING IS R-3, AND THE REQUESTED ZONE IS RM-6.
              APPLICANT- NATHAN AND LAURA KUNZ.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the area is familiar to
the Commission with a rezone and General Plan Amendment having been done on the
property to the north. Ivory Homes also recently requested site plan approval. That project
was currently under construction. When the Ivory Development was being considered there
was talk of potentially rezoning the property to the south, however, it was not included in any
of the notices or rezone applications. There was discussion of extending utilities and road
stubs to the south. A map of the site was displayed. What is proposed are three parcels on
3.25 acres. Notice was sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property.
Due to the higher density in the area, a large number of people were given notice.

Mr. Prestwich described how the General Plan and zoning interact and stated that in a built-
out subdivision, the zoning matches the General Plan. There are areas of the City, however,
that are underdeveloped or undeveloped that have zoning. When the Planning Commission
and City Council undertake a General Plan they look at parcels and can see the potential
for them to possibly change in the future. As a result, they assign a General Plan
Designation that could differ from the zoning.

In this case, the General Plan for the corner is Low-Density Residential. When Ivory came
in, the City changed the General Plan to Medium-High Density Residential and
simultaneously changed the zoning to RM-6. The current General Plan is Low-Density
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 2
April 28, 2022

Residential, which requires minimum 14,000 square-foot lots and is equivalent to any of the
four zones R-1 through R-3. The applicant is requesting a change to the Medium-High
Density of five to eight units per acre, which allows the RM-6 or RM-8 zones. Most of the
properties on the east side of 3600 West are Estate Density with one-half acre lots or larger.
The properties on the west side of 3600 West are Low-Density and Medium-Density to
Lowe’s. The lot sizes are 10,000 and 14,000 square feet. The Ivory Harvest Gardens
Development allows for Medium-High Density, which is the General Plan designation the
applicant is requesting. The zoning map shows RM-6 with an SD Overlay there.

Mr. Prestwich clarified that the requested zoning is RM-6, which previously allowed for
condominiums, townhomes, or single-family detached homes on 4,000 square-foot lots.
Twin homes were also allowed for a time. The City Council had routinely been placing SD
designations on properties with RM-6 zoning and limiting it to single-family small lot
development. It was done so often that Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge,
asked the Council if they would like to make a change and eliminate condominiums and
townhomes in the RM-6 zone. The Council supported the idea, and it was clarified that the
ordinance was changed. It now only allows single-family detached on 5,000 square-foot
lots. Mr. Prestwich explained that the ordinance change applies to the Ivory development
and there are some twin homes in the project. It would not, however, apply to the proposed
rezone to RM-6. It was clarified that the minimum lot size is 5,000 square feet. The lot
frontage is 45 feet with a width of 90 feet. The RM-6 zone requires 50 feet of frontage. The
RM-6 zone has a 15-foot front setback and a 20-foot garage setback. The side setbacks
are five feet and rear setbacks of 15 or 25 feet when adjacent to existing single-family
residential. There is no lot coverage maximum in the RM-6 zone. The maximum building
height is 35 feet for both zones.

Mr. Prestwich stated that several comments were received after the packets were sent out.
That feedback was provided to the Commission Members. A number of comments
expressed disappointment with how the area has changed and the fact that the City rezoned
the Ivory property. Mr. Prestwich reported that the City has recognized this area as one that
is suitable for the RM-6 zone. There was some question, however, as to whether this is the
right place to break the zone boundary at the property line or continue it south to the creek.

Commissioner Cannon recalled that when the Planning Commission forwarded a
recommendation on the zoning for the Ivory Development to the City Council, an Elderly
Housing Overlay was attached to it. Mr. Prestwich stated that the diagonal line indicates
that it is a Special Designation (“SD”). The hatch in the opposite direction denotes that it is
an Elderly Housing Overlay. The applicant is not requesting the Elderly Housing Overlay as
part of the rezone. The resulting lots would look the same, but the family use would be
different. Commissioner Cannon admired the Kunz Family who has done a great job of
representing the City. Access issues were discussed. Commissioner Cannon did not
support putting many more accesses out onto 3600 West.

Commissioner Park addressed the letter received from Brook Jenkins and clarified that as
many as six homes per acre are allowed. Mr. Prestwich clarified that the RM-6 zone allows
for 5,000 square-foot lots with a maximum density of six dwelling units per gross acre. In
reality, however, dedications are required that eliminate that possibility.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
April 28, 2022


A question was raised with regard to the potential for low-income housing units. The
applicant, Nathan Kunz, commented that the State of Utah has issued policies directing
cities to allow for moderate-income housing. He stated that refusing the rezone on the basis
that it could lead to moderate-income housing would most likely not hold up in court. An
issue that the State Legislature has been grappling with for the past few years is that
moderate-income housing is measured by whether the price point of a home is affordable to
someone earning 75% of the area median income. In the current market, the cost of building
materials is pricing any unit beyond reach. In addition, once developers have their density
are still putting as much square footage as possible in the homes. Based on the various
challenges that exist, this type of housing is not being built and potential units are typically
priced out of the market.

Mr. Prestwich stated that the proposed area is too small for parking. The developer will be
required to provide off-street parking for two cars per unit in the driveway. Parking will also
be allowed on the street. A stub road is required out of the Ivory Project to the south. It is
a 54-foot right-of-way with parking on both sides.

Mr. Kunz reported that they moved to Riverton on December 27, 1989. They originally
purchased a one-acre parcel and one year later they bought two acres behind them. Three
or four years ago the property lines were square, however, they reached an agreement with
the neighbor to the south and quitclaimed the property on their side of the wash to the
neighbor. The neighbor in turn quitclaimed the area on the Kunz’s side of the wash to them.
They felt that Midas Creek would be a good breaking point for dissimilar zoning. In terms of
senior housing, he acknowledged the need for these types of units. Mr. Kunz stated that
they have no plans to move or sell the property. The proposed change would be on paper
only. He confirmed that they live on the front one acre.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Rushton found the request to be consistent with the General Plan and the
rezone to the north. He did not feel that more senior housing was needed but recognized
the need for more affordable housing. He expressed his support.

Chair Cluff was comfortable with the request.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-22-4004, for changing the General Plan Designation
and Zoning of 3.25 acres located near 11944 South 3600 West, thus changing the
General Plan Designation to Medium-High Density Residential and changing the
zoning RM-6. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Gilchrist. The motion
passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.
