                               RIVERTON CITY YOUTH COUNCIL



2.130.010: CREATION AND PURPOSE:
There is hereby created a Youth Council. The Youth Council is created as a supportive body to
the Mayor and City Council, and is subject to the immediate direction and supervision of the City
Manager or designee. The Youth Council is hereby directed to assist in the advancement of the
following purposes:
 (1) To promote and provide an opportunity for the youth of the city to acquire a greater
knowledge of, and appreciation for, the political system of local government through activities,
services, and participation in local government.
 (2) To obtain information and assistance from city youth regarding planning and
implementation of social, educational, cultural and recreational activities for youth in the city
which assist in the advancement of the purposes found in this section.
 (3) To gain leadership skills by assisting in the planning and implementing of activities and
service to the community, as well as accept and act upon foreign proposals to do acts of
community service if approved by the City Manager or designee.
 (4) To act at all times within budgetary constraints of the Riverton City Council and in
accordance with the programs and events approved by the City Manager or designee.
(5) To meet approximately twice a month in regular Youth Council meetings while school is in
session, holding additional work sessions when necessary. All meeting schedules shall be
approved annually by the City Manager or designee.
(6) To learn about the roles and responsibilities of government officials; learn about
organizations that play a strong role in the community; learn how to be impactful advocates
while working with either government officials or community oriented organizations.


2.130.020: SUPPORT AND OVERSIGHT OF YOUTH COUNCIL:
The Mayor may appoint the following individuals, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor,
to support and supervise the daily affairs of the Youth Council:
(1) City Support Staff: The Mayor will direct the City Manager or designee to provide the Youth
Council with such administrative staff support and advisors as he or she deems necessary to
assist the Youth Council in carrying out its duties and responsibilities.
 (2) Youth Council Advisors: The Mayor may appoint one or more residents of Riverton City
who are not city employees, to serve on a voluntary basis as Youth Council advisors. Youth
Council advisors may be paid a stipend for attendance at meetings in accordance with the
annual meeting schedule of the Youth Council.
(3) The Mayor will direct the City Manager or designee to create and implement protocols
intended to protect the safety of Youth Council members, in their interactions with city staff and


                                            Page 1 of 3
volunteers. Said protocols shall address, without limitation, maintaining transparency in
communication and interaction between Youth Council members, staff, and volunteers.


2.130.030: SELECTION:
(1) The executive officers of the Youth Council shall be elected appointed annually, and shall
serve terms in office which begin on the first day of June and end on the last day of May of each
year. Selection shall be carried out as provided in this section.
(2) The Youth Council shall consist of a minimum of ten (10) and a maximum of fifty (50)
members to include Youth Council officers described in this section.
(3) The officers with governing authority over the Youth Council as a whole shall consist of a
youth mayor, youth mayor pro tem, youth community coordinator, youth attorney, youth city
recorder, youth publicity and recruitment officer, youth service coordinator, and youth hospitality
coordinator. The appointment process of said officers shall be determined by the Bylaws.
(4) The youth mayor and youth mayor pro tem may create subcommittees to accomplish their
purposes.
(5) Members of the Youth Council are required to be residents of the city and be in good
standing academically and with regard to citizenship as determined by their school. Youth who
are residents of the city who are homeschooled are also eligible for selection to the Youth
Council.


2.130.040: TERM; REMOVAL; VACANCY:
(1) Unless appointed by reason of vacancy due to removal or resignation, the term of office for
a member of the Youth Council shall be one year, beginning in September of the year he or she
is electedappointed.
(2) A member of the Youth Council may be removed for, among other things, excessive,
unexcused absences or not maintaining an attendance record of eighty percent (80%) over
three months in office.
(3) Any vacancy occurring on the Youth Council, either by removal or by resignation, shall be
filled by the Youth Council coordinator. The new member filling the vacancy shall have a term to
end at the same time as the current Youth Council members. A Youth Council member
appointed to serve an interim term in office shall be considered eligible for reelection
reappointment in a subsequent year.


2.130.050: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OFFICERS:
The duties and responsibilities of Youth Council officers shall consist as follows:
(1) The Youth Mayor shall be a high school senior and will serve as the chief executive officer
of the Youth Council.


                                            Page 2 of 3
(2) The Youth Council Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem shall serve as leadership for meeting the
objectives of the Youth Council.
(3) The Youth City Recorder shall serve as the secretary of the Youth Council and record and
preserve records of all proceedings of the Youth Council meetings and document decisions
made during such meetings. The Youth City Recorder shall collect and preserve records of
events attended by the Youth Council. The Youth City Recorder shall collect photos of all Youth
Council events.
(4) The duties and responsibilities of other Officers described in this Chapter shall be described
by the Charter and Bylaws of the Youth Council, subject to the approval of the City Manager or
designee. The Youth Council shall not elect or appoint other officers to represent or carry out
the objectives of a judicial branch.


2.130.060: RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The Youth Council shall operate in accordance with "Robert's Rules of Order" unless the Youth
Council develops rules of procedure that are approved by the City Manager or designee.


2.130.070: OPERATIONS:
As allowed by this chapter and other applicable law, and with the prior approval of the City
Manager or designee, the Youth Council may:
(1) Take opportunities to acquire a greater knowledge of, and appreciation for, the political
system of local government, through completion of planned projects and active participation in
local government.
(2) Inform city government officials regarding planning and implementing of social, educational,
cultural and recreational activities for youth.
(3) The Youth Council shall not have authority to bind the city or impose any condition on the
city or its citizens. The Youth Council shall not solicit or collect sponsorships or charitable
donations unless first approved by the City Manager or designee.




                                           Page 3 of 3
