                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 16, 2025
Subject:         25-21, RM-6 Amendment, Proposed Updates to the RM-6 Zone, Section 18.45
                 to include provisions for using private roads in specific circumstances and clarify
                 Development Standards. Amendments Proposed by Riverton City

On July 10, 2025, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this proposed
ordinance amendment. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning
Commission voted to recommend approval, with the following motion:

I move the City Council adopt Ordinance 25-21, amendments to the RM-6 Zone in
Sections 18.45 of the Riverton City Code as shown in Exhibit “A”.

Background

The RM-6 Zone is a Residential Zone in Riverton City that allows for small lot, single-family
detached housing. This zone was initially created as a multifamily zone with attached housing,
and retains the “RM” designation in its title. However, over time, the City was routinely
approving the RM-6 Zone on properties but was restricting the use to small lot (5,000-sf)
detached single-family homes. Eventually the City Council removed the provisions for multi-
family attached units, so that only single family detached units are allowed in this zone.

City code requires a project parcel size of “not less than one and a half acres and not more than
15 acres” but makes provisions for smaller infill projects along major roadways:

         “on parcels of at least one-half acre where such parcels have frontage onto a major
         street and where such use is in compliance with the Riverton City general plan and
         with the surrounding properties.

The RM-6 Zone has standards for lot size, lot dimensions, and setbacks, but the code lacks a
standard for private roads. This means that any project proposed in the RM-6 zone can only
use public roadways with City Standard Street widths. This requirement makes many projects
impossible or impactable. This standard is particularly difficult to meet for the smaller infill
projects.

This proposed zone text change would add provisions to the RM-6 Zone similar to provisions
found in the other Single-Family Zones for the Planning Commission to determine by
Conditional Use if private roads may be used in an RM-6 Development. It would establish
standards for the Planning Commission to consider private roads vs public roads and set
Report by: TJP
9/11/2025
standards for private roadway designs. The proposed standards are similar, but slightly
different than those currently in use in the R-1, RR-22, R-2, R-3, and R-4 Zones, they are
modified to fit the smaller lots and narrower frontages of the 5,000-sf lots. With these notable
changes:

        1. One or two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.

        2. Three or more lots, and/or a lane that exceeds 150 feet in length: 26-wide paved
           surface minimum.

        3. For developments more than 3 lots The Planning Commission may require additional
           lane width and improvements up to the minimum city standard road section (54-ft
           wide with sidewalk on each side).

        4. Private roadways may NOT be counted towards the required minimum lot area.

        5. The Commission can require a private road to provide a connection to adjoining
           properties that are currently zoned or could reasonably be zoned RM-6.

Finally, the proposed changes include a few minor deletions, clarifications and additions to
Section 18.45.180 “Development Standards” to remove portions that were specific to multifamily
development, and clarify setback measurements for single family detached structures.

The Planning Commission recommended approval of the proposed amendments with on
recommended change to make the rear yard setbacks a standard 15 feet. However, in the
previous City Council meeting there were concerns expressed regarding this reduction. Based
on that discussion, the rear yard setback language has been adjusted requiring 25 feet adjacent
to single family residential uses, unless otherwise approved by SD during the rezone hearing.
That language reads as follows:

    c) Rear Yard.
       i) The minimum rear yard setback shall be 15 feet.
       i)ii) , Where adjacent to existing single-family residential zoning or use, the setback shall
             be 25 feet,. unless otherwise established by Specific Development designation
             during the rezone approval process

 This is reflected in the Exhibit “A” draft.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

         •       RM-6 Zone Amendment.




Report by: TJP
9/11/2025
