                            MEMORANDUM
To:            Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:          Planning Department
Date:          March 4, 2025
Subject:       25-06 “Joseph White Rezone,” Rezone of approximately 0.81-acres located
               at 11968 South Redwood Road from C-N (Commercial Neighborhood) to C-G
               (Commercial Gateway). Applicant- Joseph White.


On February 13, 2025 the Planning Commission held a public hearing to review this item.
Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission voted to
recommend approval, with the following recommended motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #25-06, “Joseph White Rezone,” rezoning a 0.81-
acre parcel located at 11968 South Redwood Road from C-N to C-G (Commercial Gateway).


Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant, Joseph White, for
rezoning an 0.81-acre parcel located at 11968 South Redwood Road. The property is an
existing commercial building, on the west side of Redwood Road. In the past it was notably
used for Pet Planet. The property is currently zoned C-N (Commercial Neighborhood), the
requested zone is C-G which is Gateway Commercial. The General Plan designation for this
property is Community Commercial and this request fits with the General Plan.

The applicant recently requested a Zone Text Change to amend the Commercial Neighborhood
Zone to allow Reception Centers. The Planning Commission recommended Denial, and the
City Council did deny the Zone Text Change. Both the Commission and Council expressed
support of a Reception center on the property but hesitated to support a zone text change that
would apply to all C-N properties. It was suggested a rezone to C-G would meet the applicants
goals.

As mentioned, the property is zoned C-N. The applicant’s other property to the south is also
zoned C-PO and is not included with this application. Property to the north is zoned C-N.
Properties to the east and west are zoned for Single Family Residential with R-3 or R-4 zoning.
This application is only for rezoning the Property, and site plan changes are not included. If the
applicant decides to make changes to the site or building a site plan application would come
before the City for separate review.

The Planning Commission, following a public hearing on this item, voted to recommend
approval. Staff concurs with that recommendation.
Attachments

The following items are attached:

       1.   Rezone Application.
       2.   Area Zoning Map.
       3.   Area General Plan Map.
       4.   Proposed Zoning
       5.   Planning Commission minutes
rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
Area Zoning



             Subject
             Parcel
                                      Melba Lane




                       Redwood Road




rivertonutah.gov
Proposed Zoning



             Subject
             Parcel
                                      Melba Lane




                       Redwood Road




rivertonutah.gov
Area General Plan




rivertonutah.gov
   Riverton City
     Table of
   Commercial
       Uses




rivertonutah.gov
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               8
February 13, 2025


      D.     “JOSEPH WHITE REZONE”, PLZ-25-4002, AN APPLICATION FOR A
             REZONE FOR 0.81- ACRES LOCATED AT 11968 SOUTH REDWOOD
             ROAD FROM C-N (NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL) TO C-G (GATEWAY
             COMMERCIAL). APPLICANT – JOSEPH WHITE.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the matter was
noticed to property owners within 1,000 feet. A few weeks prior, an applicant inquired about
amending the Table of Commercial Uses to allow Reception Centers in the C-N Zone. At
that time the Planning Commission suggested the applicant instead pursue a rezone and
ultimately voted to deny the request. The City Council also denied the change but expressed
a willingness to entertain a rezone. The current request involves a specific property.
Mr. Prestwich reported that there are three properties in the area that are zoned commercial.
The applicant is proposing to change the zoning of one property to CG. The uses are
compatible so there are no issues with them being placed next to each other. The fencing,
buffering, and setback requirements are all the same as well as the neighborhood impact
although the uses are different in the CG zone. The proposal was found to comply with the
General Plan. The Table of Uses shows that a Reception Center would be a conditional
use. One letter was received from a neighbor who expressed support for the proposal.

Chair Park asked if there are any additional barrier requirements with the zone.
Mr. Prestwich stated that there are not. He explained that if the applicant makes changes
to the site plan they would have come back to the Commission.

The applicants, Joseph and Alice White, are requesting a zone change to allow for a
Reception Center, which is permitted in the Commercial Gateway Zone. Chair Park reported
that Mrs. White has been operating a dance studio out of the facility for the past 14 years.
Mrs. White confirmed that was the case and stated that the proposed reception center will
be located next door. The dance studio will remain.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Beck moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of Application PLZ-25-4002 “Joseph White Rezone”, by rezoning a 0.81-acre parcel
located at 11968 South Redwood Road to C-G (Commercial Gateway). Commissioner
Cannon seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     “GODDARD SCHOOL”, PLZ-24-8020, AN APPLICATION FOR A FINAL
             SITE PLAN FOR A PRESCHOOL/DAYCARE TO BE LOCATED IN THE
             ROCK RIDGE MASTER SITE PLAN AT 3513 WEST 12600 SOUTH.
             APPLICANT – ROBERT SANTO.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the proposed use is a daycare, not
