                            MEMORANDUM
To:             Honorable Mayor and City Council
From:           Planning Department
Date:           July 12, 2021
Subject:        Rezone, Proposed Rezone of .84 Acres Located at 3443 West 12600 South
                From RR-22 to C-PO (Commercial Professional Office), Joanna Williams,
                Representing Blooming Minds Preschool, Applicant.


On June 10, 2021, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on this rezone
application. Minutes from that meeting are included below. The Planning Commission
voted to recommend APPROVAL of the proposed rezone. The Commission recommended
the following motion:

I move the City Council ADOPT Ordinance #21-18 rezoning 0.84-acres of land located at 3443
West 12600 South from RR-22 to C-PO (Commercial Professional Office).

Background

This is a public hearing for an application to rezone 0.84 acres located at 3443 West 12600
South. The property is zoned RR-22. The property to the east and south is zoned C-PO with
the Elderly Housing Overlay, and the property to the west is zoned RR-22. The property is
designated in the Riverton City General Plan as “Professional Office”.

The property is occupied by an existing structure and parking area, which has been used as a
meeting house for a church congregation. Religious meetinghouses are permitted in residential
zones, and so the zoning has remained RR-22. The applicant has the property under contract,
with the intent to operate a commercial daycare/preschool in the facility. The applicant
requested in the application Commercial Gateway or Commercial Professional Office, and the
proposed use is allowed in both zones. The primary difference is that it is a permitted use in the
C-PO zone and a conditional use in the C-G. Staff does not anticipate any issues with the use
of the site for daycare/preschool. While either zoning can be considered appropriate, the
General Plan designates the property and surrounding area as Professional Office. The
Planning Commission recommended approval of the rezone of the property to C-PO and staff
concurs with that recommendation.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Application, area zoning and general plan maps, minutes

Report by: JL
7/13/2021
                                                    11800 South




                                                                              Redwood Rd
                              Bangerter Hwy




                                                    2700 West
                                                                        12600 South
                                              IHC
                                                                                           Golf



                   Mtn View
                    Village                                     13400 South




rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
General
Plan




 rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
PC Minutes
                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                   June 10, 2021

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Municipal Building, 12830 South 1700 West, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Troy Rushton, Chair                              Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
Keith Breinholt                                  Craig Bott, City Attorney
Natalia Brown
Gary Cannon
Shelly Cluff
Brian Russell

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Troy Rushton called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m.
Commissioner Breinholt led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.     PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

       a.     REZONE: BLOOMING MINDS REZONE FOR 0.84-ACRES LOCATED AT
              3443 WEST 12600 SOUTH. PROPERTY IS ZONED RR-22, REQUESTED
              ZONING IS C-G OR C-PO, JOANNA WILLIAMS, APPLICANT.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated that
the above matter involves a request from Blooming Minds Day Care for a rezone for 0.84-
acre located at 3443 West 12600 South. The General Plan for the property is Professional
Office, however, because it was formerly a meeting house for a religious entity, the use is
allowed in a residential but not a commercial zone. He explained that the building is being
sold to the applicant who has requested a Commercial Gateway Zone or Commercial
Gateway Zone. A property rendering was displayed. Staff recommended approval of the
rezone as it is consistent with the General Plan as well as use of the building.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the applicant had a preference between the two commercial
zones. Mr. Lethbridge stated that he would leave that for the applicant. He clarified that the
request is a permitted use in the Commercial Gateway Zone and a conditional use in the
Professional Office Zone.

Chair Rushton raised a question regarding interconnectivity where parcels on both sides are
being developed as commercial. Mr. Lethbridge indicated that interconnectivity is always
challenging and with this property, there is ample room for the circulation needed. He stated
they would want to further review the interconnectivity with the adjacent property during the
site plan process.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 2
June 10, 2021


The applicant, Linda Rushton, reported that she is purchasing the building and intends to
use it as a preschool. There is a care center located on one side and a future commercial
use on the other.

There were no further public comments. Chair Rushton closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Cluff moved to APPROVE Application PLZ 21-4004 rezone of 0.84-
acres located at 3443 West 12600 South and changing the zoning to Commercial
Professional Office. Commissioner Russell seconded the motion. The motion passed
with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

       b.     HOME OCCUPATION: BURTON ARMS, LLC TO BE LOCATED AT 13659
              SOUTH 2780 WEST, SEAN BURTON, APPLICANT.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and reported that the above matter involves a
request from Burton Arms, LLC. for a home occupation located at 13659 South 2780 West
for the building and manufacturing of custom firearms and ammunition. He stated that the
term “manufacturing” in this application is unique to guns. Any alteration or modification is
classified by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, (“ATF”) as manufacturing. He
clarified that the application does not involve large-scale manufacturing that is prohibited in
the ordinance. The Police Department had not expressed any concerns and indicated that
this type of use is tightly controlled through ATF. He confirmed that any guns and
ammunition are required to be kept in a safe. Staff received several phone calls from
neighbors asking for more information. Staff recommended approval with the conditions
set forth in the staff report.

There were no further public comments. Chair Rushton closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Russell moved to APPROVE Application PLZ 21-2021 Burton Arms,
LLC located at 13659 South 2780 West with the following conditions:

       1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
              applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City
              Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
              Codes.

       2.     The applicant must obtain and maintain a Federal Firearms License.

       3.     The applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

       4.     The Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance and this approval, including limiting use of the
              accessory building to 50% of the space or less.
