                                                                       Contact # _20-1065-03_

RIVERTON CITY
12830 South Redwood Rd
Riverton, Utah 84065



  1. CONTRACTING PARTIES: This contract is between Riverton City and the following contractor:

            Company Name: Intermountain Plantings

            Address: 579 W. 14600 South Bluffdale, Utah 84065

  2. GENERAL PURPOSE OF CONTRACT:

            Landscape Maintenance of City Parks, Park Strips and Open Space


  3. PROCUREMENT: This contract is entered into as a result of Invitation to Bid CC19-370.

  4. CONTRACT PERIOD: The contract is a one (1) year contract with four (4) one‐year options to renew,
     determined by the City.

  5. CONTRACT AMOUNT:

            Area 2: $165,689.00 – 30 weeks; $5,522.96 per week.
            Area 3: $178,369.00 – 30 weeks; $5,945.63 per week.
                   April         $57,343.00
                   May           $45,874.40
                   June          $45,874.40
                   July          $45,874.40
                   August        $45,874.40
                   September     $45,874.40
                   October       $57,343.00

  6. STANDARD TERMS & CONDITIONS: Attached and incorporated as Attachment “A”.

  7. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED INTO THIS CONTRACT BY REFERENCE BUT NOT
     ATTACHED:
       a. All other governmental laws, regulations, or actions applicable to the goods and/or services
          authorized by this contract.
       a. Utah State Procurement Code, Riverton City Procurement Ordinance and all documents
          associated with bid CC19-370, dated on or before 1-7-20.
___________________________   _________   ___________________________
Contractor Signature          Date        Approved as to Legal Form


___________________________   _________   ___________________________
Printed Name                  Date        Mayor


___________________________   _________   ___________________________
Title                         Date        Attest
                          Park, Park Strip and Open Space - Specifications

PART 1 - GENERAL
1.01 SUMMARY:

A. Work in this section includes, but is not limited to furnishing all labor, materials, equipment
and incidentals necessary to provide a complete landscape maintenance and fertilizing
program for City facilities.

B. Work specifically included for maintenance includes:
       a. Mowing, edging, fertilization and weed control within turf areas and non-turf areas.
       b. Weekly site inspection of potential insect pest and disease problems and filing
       monthly status reports.
       c. Cleanup all trash, litter, and debris in mowing landscape area before
       mowing, to avoid possible injury or additional debris to be spread.
       d. All operations of this contract shall comply with Riverton Municipal Permit
       #UTS000001 as required by the Utah Water Quality Act, Title 19, Chapter 5, Utah
       Code Annotated (“UCA”) 1953, as amended.
       e. All employees of the contractor including all subcontractors and their employees will
       be required to view the Riverton City storm water pollution and prevention video
       f. Develop and implement an operation and maintenance program that includes a
       training component to train employee’s to prevent and reduce storm water pollution
       from maintenance activities.
       g. Develop and implement a program to prevent, contain, and respond to spills such as
       fertilizers, fuel, oil etc. that includes notifying the Utah Department of Health and
       Riverton City. The program must include keeping a recorded log with a follow-up
       procedure.

C. Work which may be required under this section, if required, will be considered as a claim for
extra work.
        a. Insect, pest and disease control. (Inspecting for insects, pest, and disease is part of
        the responsibilities of the contractor and is not considered as extra work).
        b. Plant replacement due to theft, vandalism, or accidental damage by others after final
        acceptance
        c. Over seeding and aeration of lawn areas.
        d. Topdressing and replacement of wood and gravel mulches.
        e. Clean up and disposal of leaves in the fall.
        f. Clean up from storm events.
        g. For any extra work that may be required or is recommended to be done contractor, the City
        reserves the right to have the work done by another contractor.

1.02 QUALITY ASSURANCE

A. Requirements of Regularity Agencies
       a. performs all work in accordance with all applicable laws, codes, and regulations required by authorities
       having jurisdiction over such work.
       b. Provide for all inspections and permits required by Federal, State, or local authorities in furnishing,
       transporting, and installing agricultural chemicals.



Park, Park Strip, Open Space ‐ Specifications
B. Work Force
       a. Experience: The contractor will have a full time Forman assigned to the job for the
       duration of the contract.
                1. Forman must be able to communicate in English with the City Staff and
                Citizens.
                2. Forman will have the ability to speak for and on behalf of the owner of the
                contract.
                3. Forman will meet with the City weekly to review problem areas in the City.
                4. Forman will have a minimum of four years experience in landscape
                maintenance supervision, with experience or training in entomology, pest
                control, soils, fertilizers and plant identification.
       b. Labor Force: The Contractor’s labor force will be thoroughly familiar and trained in
       the work to be accomplished and perform the task in a competent, efficient manner
       acceptable to the Owner.
       c. Supervision: The Forman will directly employ and supervise the work force at all
       time. Notify Owner of all changes in supervision.
       d. Contractor will be required to provide to Owner a complete list of all employees
       hired by Contractor performing work in Riverton City. Contractor will verify legal
       workforce documentation to Owner at the beginning of each work season.
       e. Identification: Provide proper identification at all times for contractors vehicles and
       labor force.
       f. Safety Training: The landscape maintenance firms’ entire labor force shall be
       certified to operate any and all equipment used in the City.
       g. Safety Officer: The landscape maintenance firm shall have a dedicated safety officer
       assigned to the project site.

C. Quality Assurance
        a. Contract shall maintain a monthly landscape maintenance log, including services
        performed. Submit copies of the log with each months pay request.
        b. Contractor shall submit a sample for the form used to log work. Owner or owners’
        representative must approve the format for the log in of all work. All maintenance
        logs will be entirely completed and in a uniform format. Contractor shall maintain
        originals of the maintenance logs in an electronic or bound format. The Owner will
        be sent a copy of the logs for the month, submitting with pay request.
        c. Contractor shall use the pay request form approved by the Owner in preparing
        monthly pay submittals.
        d. In the event of property damage to a property which borders a City location, the contractor shall work
        in a timely manner to correct such damage, at Contractors expense.
        e. Contractor shall assume all responsibility for plant material, turf, fencing, headstones, and the like,
        which is damaged or stressed in any way as a result of maintenance. Contractor will assume all cost
        associated with the replacement of damaged plant material, turf, fencing, headstones, and the like.




Park, Park Strip, Open Space ‐ Specifications
D. Appearance: the following areas shall have an appearance as described below, at all times.
       a. Turf Areas- Grass shall have a neat, well kept, healthy appearance. Mowing shall be performed as
       needed but at a minimum of once per week, except for the cemetery and Riverton City Park which is
       twice per week. Grass should always have a uniform height. In parks that have athletic play, grass height
       shall never exceed 3 ½” inches in height, and shall not be cut lower than 2 ½” inches. In parks that do not
       have athletic play, grass height shall never exceed 3” inches in height, and shall not be cut lower than 2“
       inches. Any clumping that is left behind from the mowing process must be cleaned up and removed.
       b. All gutters and sidewalks and roads surrounding mowing areas will be cleaned and
       properly disposed of after each mowing, to prevent the discharge of floatables into
       the storm water system to the maximum extent practicable.


1.03 SCHEDULING

A. Perform all duties described in the contract during hours mutually agreed upon between
Owner and Contractor. Maintenance shall be scheduled to have the least impact on
homeowners and businesses in the project areas. Mowing, leaf blowing and other noisy
operations shall not be scheduled during weekends in residential areas.
B. Mowing of all City Parks will be done in three days, Monday, Tuesday & Wednesday.
Mowing of City Park Strips could be scheduled throughout the week. Mowing of the
cemetery Riverton City Park will be done Tuesday and Friday of each week. The
schedule may be adjusted; however adjustments must be mutually agreed upon between the
Owner and Contractor. Adjustments to the schedule may be approved due to weather and
special events.
C. Mowing and cutting of weeds in areas that are identified as trail/drainage/open areas will be
done five (5) times a year. Scheduling will be mutually agreed upon between Owner and
Contractor; typically done in April, May, July, September, October.
D. Some locations (City Hall, Public Works, Senior Citizens Center, and Police Station) have
shrubbery/bushes. Prune and shape shrubbery/bushes twice a year, in the second week of May and the first
week of September. Clean up and properly dispose of trimmings.
E. Work force will be present at the project site at least once a week and as often as necessary to
maintain specified appearance.


PART 2 – PRODUCTS

2.01 MATERIALS

A. Materials used to carry out the terms of this contract shall be supplied by Contractor unless
otherwise specified.
B. Any replacement plant material shall conform to the as-built plans in the drawings.
C. Any replacement non-organic landscape materials shall conform to the type, size, and
condition of the material being replaced.




Park, Park Strip, Open Space ‐ Specifications
PART 3- EXECUTION

3.01 LAWNS

A. Fertilizing
         a. All turf areas are require to be fertilized. Apply a quick release fertilizer in the spring and use a slow
         release fertilizer for all other applications. A slow release fertilizer has a minimum of 25% of Nitrogen in
         a slow release form. Every fertilizer application will be done using the rate of 1 pound of actual nitrogen
         per 1000 square feet.
         b. All parks that have athletic play will receive a minimum of 4 fertilizer applications per year.
         Applications will be done in early April, mid-May, mid-August, and mid-October. However, if the City
         determines additional applications are required to maintain healthy turf, it will be the obligation of the
         contractor to do so at the contractor’s expense.
         c. Turf not associated with athletic play will receive a minimum of 3 fertilizer applications per year.
         Applications will be done in early April, late May or early June, and mid-October. However, if the City
         determines additional applications are required to maintain healthy turf, it will be the obligation of the
         contractor to do so at the contractor’s expense.
         d. All dates of application will be pre-approved with the Owner in writing so that irrigation schedules can
         be adjusted and as to not interfere with Community or Recreation pre scheduled events.
         e. If iron is applied, it must be a non-staining iron formulation.
         f. Fertilizer formulations to be used shall be submitted to the City prior to each application.
         g. The amount of fertilizer applied to each individual area shall be submitted to the City after each
         application.
         h. When applying each fertilizer, precautions will be taken by contractor to eliminate product being over
         applied to gutters, sidewalks, parking lots, and roadways. All over application to gutters, sidewalks,
         parking lots, and roadways will be cleaned and removed the day they were applied to prevent the
         discharge of pollutants into the storm water system.
         i. The contractor will be liable for any damages occurring due to improper application.


B. Weed Control
       a. Contractor or Subcontractor must have a Pesticide Business License through the Utah
       State Department of Agriculture. Personnel who are applying the product must have a Commercial
       Pesticide Applicators License in the Ornamental and Turf category issued by the Utah State Department
       of Agriculture. Before any application is applied proof of licenses must be submitted.
       b. Weed control applications in turf areas will be done a minimum of twice in the spring and twice in the
       fall. Applications shall not be done within 14 days of each other unless approved by the City. Control
       broadleaf weeds in turf areas using only selective herbicides. The City will require a re-application of
       weed control within 30 days from the initial application if it is not satisfied with the results, at the
       contractor’s expense.
       c. A spring application of a pre-emergent herbicide will be used to control the germination of weeds in
       non-turf areas.
       d. Weed control applications to non-turf areas will be done on an as needed basis to keep the area
       reasonably weed free. Do not allow overspray onto desirable plants.
       e. The contractor is encouraged to apply a pre-emergent herbicide in the spring to turf areas in an effort to
       minimize potential future weeds but will not be a substitute for the two required spring weed applications.
       f. All dates of application will be pre-approved with the Owner in writing so that irrigation schedules can
       be adjusted and as to not interfere with Community or Recreation scheduled events.


Park, Park Strip, Open Space ‐ Specifications
         g. All turf areas will be kept reasonably weed free. Contractor will determine and utilize the most
         effective method of weed control.
         h. The City reserves the right to determine what defines “reasonably weed free”.
         i. The contractor will be liable for any damages occurring due to improper application.
         j. Use only recommended and EPA approved chemicals.

C. Mowing and Edging of Parks & Park Strips
      a. In parks that have athletic play, mow when turf reaches 3 ½” inches high; do not cut to
      a height lower than 2 ½” inches. In parks that do not have athletic play, mow when
      turf reaches 3” high; do not cut to a height lower than 2”.
      b. Mowing shall be performed as needed but at a minimum of once per week, except for the cemetery
      and Riverton City Park which is twice per week. Adjustments in the schedule must
      be made at times to accommodate community events.
      c. Athletic fields may be mowed twice per week as needed during the season they are used, as determined
      by the City. Athletic fields are identified on the site map. Payment for the additional mowing will be
      determined using the base price bid.
      d. Special events on sports fields such as tournaments or playoffs may require additional mowing.
      Payment for the additional mowing will be determined using the base price bid.
      e. Trim edges of grass areas at least twice a month or as needed for a neat appearance.
      Edgings would include areas where turf abuts planting beds, baseball diamonds,
      curbs, paving and fence lines. In the Cemetery and Riverton City Park trim edges of
      grass areas and around headstones at least once a week for a neat appearance.
      f. The mowing season for Riverton City will begin the first full week of April and
      conclude at the end of the last full week of October for a total of 30 weeks. Mowing
      services may continue to be needed after the conclusion of the 30 weeks. If the City
      determines that the mowing services are still needed, a written notice shall be given
      to the contractor.
      g. All gutters, paving and sidewalks surrounding the mowing areas will be cleaned and properly disposed
      of after each mowing to prevent the discharge of floatables into the storm water system.
      h. Any clumping or excess grass that is left behind from the mowing process must be dispersed or
      removed.


3.02 TRAILS/DRAINAGE/OPEN SPACE AREAS

A. Scheduling
        a. Mowing and cutting of weeds in areas that are identified as trail/drainage/open areas will be
done five (5) times a year. Scheduling will be mutually agreed upon between Owner and Contractor; typically
done in April, May, July, September, October.
B. Mowing
        a. Mowing and trimming will be from fence line to fence line and/or fence line to the top edge of
        drainage in open space areas.
        b. Weeds should be mowed and trimmed to 1” or less in height.
        c. Trim weeds along fence lines for a neat appearance.
        d. All paving and walkways will be swept or blown after each area is mowed.
        e. Any clumping or excess weeds that are left behind from the mowing process must be cleaned up and
        removed.
C. Weed control
        a. Weed control applications for noxious weeds such as Thistle, Field Bind Weed, Purple Loosestrife, and
        Puncturevine will be done a minimum of twice in the spring and twice in the fall.
        b. Applications shall not be done within 14 days of each other unless approved by the City.

Park, Park Strip, Open Space ‐ Specifications
         c. The City will require a re-application of weed control within 30 days from the initial application if it is
         not satisfied with the results, at the contractor’s expense.

3.03 OTHER OPTIONAL SERVICES / ADDITIONAL COST ITEMS

A. Pests and diseases
        a. Inspect all areas during the course of duties performed, continual observation will include the
        following:
                  1. Presences of insects, grubs, moles, gophers, ground squirrels, snails and slugs in grass
                  areas.
                  2. Discolored or blotching of leaves or needles in the grass areas.
        b. Perform spraying for insect, pest and disease control only by licensed, qualified and trained
        personnel. Contractor or Subcontractor must have a Pesticide Business License through the Utah State
        Department of Agriculture. Personnel who are applying the product must have a Pesticide
        Applicators License in the Ornamental and Turf category issued by the Utah State Department of
        Agriculture. Before any application is applied proof of licenses must be submitted. If licenses are not
        submitted prior to application, the contractor will be liable for any damages.
        c. Spray with extreme care to avoid all hazards to any person or pet in the area or adjacent areas.
        d. Place signs or placards notifying residents that spraying has occurred.
        e. A representative of the City will determine need and payment will be determined using the base price
        bid.
B. Aeration of Lawn Areas
        a. Hollow Core aeration, 3” minimum tine depth.
        b. Contractor will be responsible for damage done to headstones, infrastructure or
        sprinklers.
        c. Contractor will work with the City to determine an aeration schedule of each city
        owned property.
        d. A representative of the City will determine need and payment will be determined using the base price
        bid.
C. Reseeding/over seeding of Lawn Areas
        a. If reseeding is necessary, the contractor will use a slit seeder and an 80/20 mix by weight of Perennial
        Ryegrass/Kentucky Bluegrass seed at the rate of 10 pounds of seed per 1,000 square feet.
        b. Reseeding of existing turf areas will be determined by the City representative.
        c. Contractor will work with the City to determine a reseeding schedule of each city
        owned property.
        d. A representative of the City will determine need and payment will be determined using the base price
        bid.
D. Leaf removal
        a. Clean up and remove leaves from various locations in the fall. Areas to receive clean up include the
        cemetery, along the wall on Oxford Creek Lane, and along the west wall on 3900 W from 12200 S to
        12400 S.
        b. Other areas may be added on an as needed basis.
        c. A representative of the City will determine need and payment will be determined using the base price
        bid.
D. Athletic field mowing
        a. Athletic fields may be mowed twice per week as needed during the season they are used, as determined
        by the City. Athletic fields are identified on the site map.
        b. Special events on sports fields such as tournaments or playoffs may require additional mowing.
        c. A representative of the City will determine need and payment will be determined using the base price
        bid.


Park, Park Strip, Open Space ‐ Specifications
                                       TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1.01    CONTRACTOR’S RESPONBILITY:

The contractor shall recognize and perform in accordance with the written terms, written specifications
and drawings only, contained or referred to herein.

Contractor reserves the right to renegotiate the contact when price or scope of work is affected by
changes to any local, state, or federal law, regulation, or ordinance that goes into effect after the
Agreement is signed.
        Workforce:
        Contractor shall designate a qualified representative with experience in the services being
        provided. The workforce is to be personally presentable at all times. All employees shall be
        competent and qualified and shall be US citizens, or legal residents authorized to work in the
        United States.

         Material:
         All materials shall conform to bid specifications. Contractor will meet all Agricultural licensing
         and reporting requirements.

         Licenses and Permits:
         Contractor to maintain a Landscape Contractor’s license if so required by State or local law and
         will comply with all other license and permit requirements of the City, state, and Federal
         Governments, as well as other requirements of the law.

         Taxes:
         Contractor agrees to pay taxes applicable to its work under this contract, including sales tax on
         material supplied where applicable.

         Bonding:
         The successful bidder must submit to Riverton City full Performance and Payment Bonds in
         amount of equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the contract price. Work cannot begin until
         bonds have been received by the City. Bonding costs must be included in bid price.

         Insurance:
          The Contractor shall maintain, during the life of this contract, at his own expense, the
         following insurance described herein.
         Workers Compensation insurance, sufficient to cover all employees in the employ during the
         term of the contract including any renewal thereof. Coverage amount should be in the amount
         that is required by Utah Workmen’s Compensation Laws.
         Liability insurance (general and auto) in the amount of $2,000,000.00 per occurrence with an
         aggregate of $4,000,000.00.
All policies shall name City, their officers, agents, and employees as additional insurers. This
coverage shall be reflected on the Certificates of Insurance.
The Contractor shall provide proof of coverage before work can begin. All policies shall carry
an endorsement to the effect that the insurance company will provide by certified mail, at least
thirty (30) days to the effective date written notice to the City of any modifications, alterations,
or cancellation of any such policy or policies or terms thereof. If any of the required insurance
coverage is cancelled or lapse, the City may at the City's discretion, obtain substitute coverage
at reasonable rates. The City may deduct the cost of such coverage, plus 10% for
administrative charges, from any monies that are owing to contractor.
 The aforesaid policies of insurance, and any others which may be necessary to comply
herewith, shall be maintained in amounts of coverage set forth above; shall be designed to
protect City from all claims for damages, including wrongful death claims of any kind or nature
whatsoever which may arise from the operation of the Contractor in the performance of this
contract, whether such operations be controlled by the Contractor himself or by someone
either directly or indirectly employed by him for the purpose of accomplishing the obligation
incumbent upon the Contractor by the terms of the contract; and shall otherwise indemnify
and hold said City harmless from all manner of claims and lawsuits; and shall provide at
insurer's expense, all necessary legal aid, counsel, and representation.
All of the insurance policies herein mentioned shall be issued by an insurance company
licensed and authorized to do business in the State of Utah and shall be obtained and properly
endorsed before any operations of the Contractor are commenced with the City. Said policies
shall remain in full force and effect until the expiration of the term of this contract or the
completion of all duties to be performed hereunder by the Contractor, whichever shall occur
later. The Contractor shall likewise deposit with the City Supervisors either the original policies
of insurance mentioned or true copies thereof.
 It shall be the responsibility of the Contractor, in obtaining the aforesaid insurance coverage,
to obtain policies which shall protect the City from any and all claims whatsoever their nature,
regardless of the derivation
The Contractor agrees to comply with any and all State and Federal laws and statutes that have
or may have any connection or application herewith, including but not limited to, worker's
Compensation, Social Security, Unemployment Compensation, and Prevailing Wage Laws
Workers Compensation insurance, sufficient to cover all employees in the employ during the
term of the contract including any renewal thereof must be maintained. Coverage amount
should be in the amount that is required by Utah Workmen’s Compensation Laws.

Operation & Maintenance Plan:
Contractor is responsible to submit a Stormwater Operations and Maintenance Plan (O&M
Plan). Before any work or services are preformed, the O&M Plan is required. Failure to comply
will result in stoppage of work and liquidated damages may apply.
Submit at copy of the Operation and Maintenance Plan to the Stormwater Division and the
Department or Division requesting the service contract.
Liability:
Riverton City will assume no liabilities for the contractor including any of the contractor’s
representatives, employees or properties, and agrees to, at all times, protect, indemnify, defend
and hold harmless the City and city employees from any and all claims.
Contractor shall, at all times maintain safe and secure conditions and take appropriate measures
to avoid the risk of loss, theft, vandalism or sabotage.
Any damages occurring from the execution of the contract, incidental or otherwise, to city or
adjacent properties must be repaired, at the contractor’s expense, to the owner’s satisfaction.

Indemnification
Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless the City, its officers, agents employees and
volunteers from any and all claims arising out of the activities or omissions of the Contractor,
its officers, agents, employees, and others claiming through or under Contractor, including its
assignees, under this Agreement. This indemnification requirement includes indemnification
for claims for attorney’s fees, court cost and litigation expenses, of whatever type and amount.
Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless the City, its officers, agents, employees and
volunteers from any and all claims involving worker’s compensation and claims for injuries
occurring upon or arising from the performance of this Agreement; Contractor shall be solely
and fully responsible for the payment of such claims. Contractor shall indemnify and defend
the City, its officers, agents and employees from any and all administrative claims and
proceedings (such as alleged OSHA violations and similar proceedings) brought against the City,
its officers, agents, employees or volunteers which arise out of the performance by Contractor
of this Agreement. Contractor shall be fully responsible for the training and equipping of its
workers on the premises and for any failings in such training or equipment. Contractor shall be
responsible for the costs of any safety feature or improvements mandated by the performance
of this agreement. At all times, Contractor shall perform the services set forth in this
agreement in accordance with the regulations, standards and the instructions of the City.

Subcontractors:
Contractor reserves the right to hire qualified subcontractors to perform specialized functions
or work requiring specialized equipment.

Fines:
Any fine that the City may incur from a violation due the negligence of the operational
practices of the contractor in the prevention of storm water pollutants, the fine will be passed
on to the contractor and shall be deducted from any invoice, that is supplied by the contractor,
or from the executed performance bond.

Invoicing:
Contractor will submit monthly service invoices on the 28th day of each month for that month’s
service, for the amounts agreed upon in the contract. Any services rendered, that are in
addition to or beyond the scope of work required of this Agreement shall be separately billed.
        Non‐Availability of Funds
        It is understood that if the department fails to receive sufficient appropriation of funds or
        authorization for the expenditure of sufficient funds to provide for the continuation of the
        contract or the lawful order issued in or for any fiscal year during the Term of this contract, the
        contract and all lawful order’s issued shall terminate on the date said funds are no longer
        available without any termination charges or liability incurring to the City. The City shall certify
        and warrant in writing that sufficient funds have not been appropriated or authorized to
        continue this amendment. Non‐Availability of Funds or failure to receive authorization for the
        expenditure of sufficient funds as used herein means a level of funding that results in less
        funding than that which was allocated to department in the immediately preceding fiscal year

1.02   Owner’s Responsibility

       Access to sites:
       City shall furnish access to all parts of locations where Contractor is to perform work as required
       by this Agreement or other functions related thereto, during normal business hours and other
       reasonable periods of time and in the case of after hour emergencies.
       Payment:
       City shall review invoices submitted by Contractor and payment shall be due 30 days following
       the date of the invoice.

1.03   Other Terms

       Liquidated Damages:
       Contractor agrees that the City will suffer damages or financial loss if the city facilities are not
       maintained as specified. The Contractor and the City agree that proof of the exact amount of
       any such damage or loss is difficult to determine. Accordingly, instead of requiring any such
       proof of damage or specific financial loss, the Contractor agrees to pay the following sums to
       the City as liquidated damages and not as a penalty.

        1. Late to Cure:

          City will provide written notification of failure to the contractor indicating a problem or
          defect discovered. The Contractor has three (3) days from the receipt of notification to cure
          the problem or defect. For those problems or defects that are of such a nature that a cure
          cannot be obtained within the three (3) days, the Contractor must provide a written
          acknowledgement of notification indicating the cause of the problem or defect, the steps
          taken to cure the problem or defect and the anticipated cure date.

          Five hundred dollars and no cents ($500.00) for each day or part thereof that expires
          after cure date.

        2. Failure to Start or Late to Detect a Problem:
   The Contractor must begin maintenance as indicated in the specifications. The Contractor is
   in the parks at least once a week. Because of that the contractor should have known and
   corrected most problems or defects before the City is made aware of them. In addition to the
   liquidated damages assessed under item number 1, the following will also be defined as a
   failure and may also apply.

   Five hundred dollars and no cents ($500.00) for each day or part thereof that expires
   after the date that the contractor should started service or should have known of a
   problem or defect.

 The City shall be entitled to deduct and retain liquidated damages out of any money which may
 be due or become due to the Contractor. To the extent that the liquidated damages exceed any
 amounts that would otherwise be due the Contractor, the Contractor shall be liable for such
 amounts and shall return such excess to the City.


Assignment/Re‐assignment:
This is a multiple award contract meaning more than one contractor will have a contract
requiring the same responsibilities, Area 1, Area 2, Area 3 and Area 4, see the site map
identifying each area. Instead of issuing liquidated damages, as defined in the liquidated
damages section, the City reserves the right to reduce the areas maintained by a failing
contractor and assign those areas to another contractor.

When new areas are acquired or projects are completed that needs to be maintained, those
areas will need to be assigned.

Re‐assignment of areas, or the assignment of new areas will be done by any of the following:
        1.     Lowest contract amount for adding areas.
        2.     Contractor who is performing the best.
        3.     Location of the area.

The contractor shall not assign this agreement or assign, pledge transfer or otherwise dispose of
its interest or this agreement, without the specific consent of the Owner, and that no such
assignment, pledge, mortgage, transfer, or other disposition shall relieve the contractor of its
obligations hereunder, nor shall such an assignment of other disposition terminate any such
claim or defense which the Owner may have. The Owner may assert any claim or defense it may
have against the contractor and against any such assignee.


Term:
The contract will be for the 2020 mowing season. The contract is a one (1) year contract with
four (4) one‐year options to renew, determined by the City. Upon the renewal there may be an
escalation of the contract approved if proof is provided as to why the increase is needed. The
yearly cost of living increase will be tied to the Wells Fargo U.S. Economic Forecast, Consumer
       Price Index. Regardless of what the index forecasts, the cost of living approved will not exceed
       2%.



1.04   Termination:

       The Contractor may terminate the contract by giving a seven (7) day written notice for non
       payment, after the payment is delinquent.

       The City may terminate the contract Instead of issuing liquidated damages, as defined in the
       liquidated damages section, after the first assessment of damages or re‐assignment of areas.

       On termination of this contract, all accounts and payments will be processed to date of
       termination for the approved services, according to the financial arrangements set forth in this
       document.
