                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 9, 2022
Subject:         PLZ-22-2015 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “Bright White Smiles”, an in-
                 home teeth-whitening salon to be located at 13743 Mount Olympus Peak Drive.
                 Applicant- Nicole Hodges.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-22-2015 ““Bright White Smiles”, to be
located at 13743 Mount Olympus Peak Drive with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and this approval.
    4. No more than 6 visitors per day to visit the house for this business.
    5. Hours of operation 7 am to 9 pm.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation for Bright White Smiles to
be located at 13743 Mount Olympus Peak Drive. The property is zoned SP R-7, which allows 7
dwelling units per acre. The subject lot is lot 236 in the Monarch Meadows Phase 2 subdivision.
The house was built in 2004, it is a 1900-sf rambler with basement and 700-sf attached garage.
The applicant, Nicole Hodges, describes her business as an in-home teeth-whitening salon which
will also sell teeth-whitening products.
She has no other home occupations and expects to have from 1 – 5 customers come to the
home daily.
This comes to the Commission because she would like to operate after 7pm, and is requesting
permission to operate until 9pm.

Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above.
 Report by: LH
Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page.

Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission only
sees applications that are requesting permission for certain things as defined by
ordinance, or if the application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to
approve it, or if there is public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
Staff can approve some home occupations that have customers or employees if the proposed
business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications (18.190.070)
set forth in the ordinance.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards, but not meet all of the Qualifications it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact.
Conversely, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
         18.190.070 Qualifications.

         In addition to the fixed standards set forth in RCC 18.190.060, all staff-reviewed home
         occupations must also comply with the requirements outlined in this section. If a business finds
         that they are unable to fully comply with all of the requirements as set forth in this section, the
         applicant may pursue possible approval as a conditional use home occupation.

                 (1) Hours. With the exception of short term rentals, no visitors in conjunction with the home
                     occupation (clients, patrons, employees, volunteers, students, pupils, etc.) shall be
                     permitted between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.

and

         18.190.050 Conditional use home occupation.

         (1) The planning commission will hold a public hearing for home occupation applications that
         meet all of the fixed standards but are unable to meet all of the qualifications or have been
         referred by the planning manager.


 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1. Public Notice including Area Map.
          2. Application.
          3. Site Plan.




 Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, June 9, 2022 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Nicole Hodges is seeking approval for a home-based business, “Bright White Smiles”, an in-home
teeth-whitening studio to be located at 13743 Mount Olympus Peak Drive. She intends to have one
to two customers per day.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 254-0704 • rivertonutah.gov
