                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               SEPTEMBER 25, 2025

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Darren Park, Chair                              Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Monique Beck                                    Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Crystal Keele
Evan Matheson
Troy Rushton

1.    CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Darren Park called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM.

Commissioner Crystal Keele led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.    PUBLIC HEARINGS

      A.     'WILLARD'S FARM SUBDIVISION,' PLZ-25-1006, AN APPLICATION FOR
             A PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION OF UP TO FIVE (5) LOTS ON 1.72-ACRES
             LOCATED NEAR 3100 WEST 13400 SOUTH. APPLICANT - ALAN
             PRINCE, MP&G LLC.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, reported that the item had previously been noticed and
approved for both rezoning and a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) for a private lane.
However, the Applicant was not quite ready with the subdivision plans tonight and he asked
that the item be continued until the next Planning Commission meeting.

Chair Park moved that the Planning Commission CONTINUE Application PLZ-25-
1006, “Willard’s Farm Subdivision”, to the next Planning Commission meeting.
Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      B.     ‘RIVER  HAVEN    AMENDED    SUBDIVISION,'  PLZ-25-1007,  AN
             APPLICATION TO ADJUST THE LOT LINE BETWEEN LOT 11 IN RIVER
             HAVEN ESTATES PHASE 1 SUBDIVISION AND LOT 19 IN RIVER HAVEN
             ESTATES PHASE 2 SUBDIVISION, LOCATED AT 12308 SOUTH 1460
             WEST. APPLICANT - GINA CARTAINO.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the application is for a simple lot
line adjustment. The Applicant, Gina Cartaino, applied for a Building Permit to build an
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
September 25, 2025


addition on her home, and at that time, City Staff discovered that the fence is 18 feet from
the property line. That additional land is necessary in order to meet setback requirements.
The two property owners then came to an agreement on adjusting the lot line.

As these items historically required administrative approval only, Staff reviewed the
documentation, verified that it met all City requirements, and sent it to the County for
recordation. The change was subsequently rejected due to a new State requirement that
amended Plats must be submitted for all lot line adjustments.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject properties and posted
on the City’s website. No comments were received. Mr. Prestwich reported that the new
lots would meet all requirements for lot size, setbacks, etc., and Staff recommended
approval.

Chair Park asked if the other property owner had confirmed that they approve of the line lot
adjustment. Mr. Prestwich reported that a Quitclaim Deed was submitted with the
application, and both property owners’ signatures were notarized.

The Applicant, Gina Cartaino, stated that she plans to extend the kitchen and dining area of
her home, as well as the master bedroom and bathroom on the second story. The fence
has been in place for 30 years and her neighbors agreed to give them the additional land.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE
Application PLZ-25-1007, “River Haven Amended Subdivision,” subject to the
following:

Conditions:

      1.      Subdivision lots and layout shall be consistent with the plans presented
              to the Planning Commission except where otherwise noted.

      2.      Final Plat must be recorded with Salt Lake County.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion.             The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      C.      'WALKER PROPERTY REZONE,' PLZ-25 -4006, A REZONE APPLICATION
              TO REZONE 1.16-ACRES LOCATED AT 2630 AND 2610 WEST 12600
              SOUTH FROM C-N (NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL) TO C-G
              (GATEWAY COMMERCIAL). APPLICANTS - MARCO HERMOSILLO AND
              RICHARD ORTIZ.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
September 25, 2025


Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and indicated that the item was a request for
legislative action to change the City Zoning Map. The Planning Commission would discuss
the matter and make a recommendation to the City Council, and the Council would then
make the final decision. Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of the
subject property, including the Country View Condominiums.

The Applicant requested rezoning to allow development of a modern automotive dealership,
which was currently not a Permitted Use in the Table of Commercial Uses for the C-G Zone.
After Staff informed them of this fact, the Applicant met with elected officials who indicated
that the idea was worth considering. However, Mr. Prestwich explained that that was a
nonbinding suggestion and not a direction to the Planning Commission. The next Agenda
item would be consideration of modifying the Table of Commercial Uses to allow automotive
dealerships as a Conditional Use in the C-G Zone. If both applications were approved, the
Applicant’s next step would be to submit a Site Plan.

Mr. Prestwich encouraged the Planning Commission to consider all allowed Uses in the C-
G Zone, as they would all be allowed if the subject property were rezoned. Additionally, any
changes to the Table of Commercial Uses would apply to all properties in the C-G Zone. He
then displayed an aerial map of the subject property, which is located on the north side
12600 South and east of the pedestrian bridge. It consists of two parcels and includes a
shared driveway easement to a nonconforming property at the rear. The Swim Kids project
was approved for the site but never constructed, and at that time, the Utah Department of
Transportation ("UDOT") would not allow a second access to be constructed. Mr. Prestwich
anticipated that UDOT would deny any similar requests from the current Applicant.

The Zoning Map was reviewed. The subject property and other parcels at the intersection
were zoned C-N. Newer properties to the east and west were zoned C-G. The General
Plan designates all parcels in the area as Business Park, which correlates to C-G and
Professional Office (C-PO) Zones. The C-G Zone is located on the edges and middle of the
City and is intended for main arteries such as Redwood Road and 12600 South.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Matheson, City Attorney, Ryan Carter,
cautioned that the application, as presented, does not include specific criteria for the
proposed Conditional Use. As a result, it would be difficult for the City to legally deny a CUP.
Conditional Uses should be considered approved Uses with conditions. He recommended
that the Planning Commission consider and make a recommendation on the application as
presented and discuss additional conditions that should be attached if the Conditional Use
was allowed.

Chair Park noted that the matter was more complicated than a typical rezoning request. This
item was only for rezoning the property, not the proposed Use that would be considered in
the next agenda item. Rezoning the property to C-G would be congruent with surrounding
properties and the General Plan. He asked for information on the specific uses that would
be allowed in the C-G Zone that were not allowed in the current C-N Zone.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
September 25, 2025


Mr. Prestwich stated that the C-N Zone is intended for smaller neighborhood services for
residents of adjoining neighborhoods. It is the most restrictive commercial zone and only
allows many uses with a CUP. The C-G Zone is more permissive and allows a mixture of
retail and commercial uses like restaurants, strip malls, automotive repair shops, and banks.
Signage requirements are stricter in the C-N Zone. The property had been on the market
since Swim Kids withdrew their project. In that time, some prospective buyers had made
inquiries about uses that would have been conditional in the C-N Zone. He believed the C-
G Zone would be congruent with the General Plan and newer businesses in the area.

Chair Park stated that automotive repair is a Conditional Use in the C-G Zone, and a written
public comment expressed concern that the noise generated by such a business would
negatively impact the mental health counseling facility on the adjoining property. He asked
if any other allowed Uses would generate noise and negatively impact surrounding
properties. Mr. Prestwich reviewed the list of Permitted and Conditional Uses in both zones.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cannon, Mr. Carter clarified that the item
could not be tabled indefinitely, as doing so would be a recommendation of denial by default.
If the Planning Commission required more information, Staff would need to understand what
specific information was being requested. He recommended that the public hearing be
conducted prior to making a decision.

Commissioner Rushton asked why the fourplex to the rear of the subject property was
nonconforming. Mr. Prestwich stated that the General Plan has changed since the structure
was constructed. The property is zoned RR-22, and a fourplex would not currently be
allowed in the zone if it were considered nonconforming. In response to a follow-up
question, he reported that the General Plan was last updated in approximately 2020 and
was due for an update. The Land Use vision of the current General Plan indicated that the
subject property should be consistent with adjacent properties.

Chair Park noted that the subject property was consistent with all other properties at the
intersection, as they were all currently zoned C-N. Mr. Prestwich stated that he was not
party to the City Council’s discussions when that decision was made, but the C-G Zone
would be consistent with properties to the east.

Commissioner Matheson reported that the C-N Zone has few Permitted Uses, and the
C-G Zone would be consistent with other properties in the area. The C-G Zone allows tattoo
and piercing shops, which he indicated could have negative impacts, but otherwise, he was
in favor of rezoning the property.

The Applicants, Richard Ortiz and Marco Hermosillo, presented a Concept Plan for the
property and indicated that it would be Riverton’s first car dealership. Mr. Ortiz stated that
the building would be designed to match the surrounding businesses, and the business
would offer employment opportunities to City residents. Mr. Ortiz addressed public
comments received in opposition to the application and stated that there would be a
landscaped buffer between the business and neighboring townhomes. The automotive bays
would be enclosed, and no heavy mechanical work would be performed at the location. All
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               5
September 25, 2025


work would be completed during normal business hours. They wanted to be an asset to the
community.

Mr. Hermosillo stated that they closed on the property the previous week and would not be
walking away from the project like Swim Kids. They planned to invest $2.5 million in the City
and had an annual revenue of $2.9 million. They wanted to give back to the community and
would partner with the high school each year for their automotive service program, as well
as make donations to support school sports teams.

In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Hermosillo confirmed that he
owned the subject property as of the previous week.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the dealership would sell new or used cars. Mr. Hermosillo
reported that they would sell 2016 and newer used cars. Financing is in-house, and they
currently have approximately 450 customers with 0% interest loans, including those with bad
credit or bankruptcies. He believes that used-car dealerships take advantage of those types
of customers by only offering financing with interest rates of 28% to 34%. They wanted to
move the dealership from Midvale to Riverton in order to grow their business.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Gerald Broderick reported that he and his wife own the four-plex to the east of the subject
property. He expressed concern about access from 12600 South, as well as lighting on the
property.

Kristy Cox owns Diagnostic Automotive, which has been in Riverton for 35 years. She asked
that the Planning Commission consider that there are five automotive shops within a two-
block radius, which she believes is too many businesses selling cars, performing oil
changes, etc. She also did not believe a car dealership would be attractive in the area. She
understood that the property had been vacant for a long time and needed to be developed,
but did not believe the property should be rezoned for this purpose.

Katherine Parnell also submitted a comment via email. She owns A New View Counseling
and Psychological Services and the building adjacent to the subject property. She has
owned her business for eight years and the building for two, and was named Riverton
Businesswoman of the Year in 2021. She is committed to serving the community’s mental
health needs. Location was the primary consideration in purchasing the building because
effective mental health work requires a quiet location in a neighborhood zone. They treat
many neurodivergent individuals, and she was concerned about noise transfer from the
service bays even if they are closed. She was strongly opposed to rezoning the property,
as rezoning it to C-G would allow businesses such as vaping or tattoo shops, which would
be a deterrent to people utilizing their mental health services.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             6
September 25, 2025


Commissioner Rushton stated that the Planning Commission considered a similar rezoning
application for a property at the intersection of 3600 West and 12600 South, which was
rezoned from C-PO to C-G. He believed that the C-G Zone was consistent with the area,
and rezoning would open the property to different types of businesses. He was in favor of
the request. Commissioner Matheson agreed with Commissioner Rushton, as he believed
the C-N Zone was too restrictive for the property. Chair Park agreed that rezoning the
property to C-G would provide an opportunity for many other types of businesses and flow
with the surrounding community.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-25-4006, “Walker Property Rezone,” by rezoning the
subject properties to C-G (Commercial Gateway Zone). Commissioner Cannon
seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Matheson-Yes, Commissioner
Beck-Yes, Commissioner Rushton-Yes, Chair Park-Yes, Commissioner Keele-Yes,
Commissioner Cannon-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

      D.     'TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES IN THE C-G ZONE,' PLZ-25-5008,
             RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND
             DEVELOPMENT CODE SECTIONS 18.90.010 (TABLE OF COMMERCIAL
             USES) AND 18.70.030 (CONDITIONAL USES, C-G ZONE), ALLOWING
             AND DEFINING CONDITIONS FOR 'AUTO DEALERSHIP (NEW OR USED)'
             AS A CONDITIONAL USE IN THE C-G ZONE.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and indicated that the amendment would add Auto
Dealership (new or used) to Riverton City Code 18.90.010, Table of Commercial Uses, and
the following language to 18.70.030, Conditional Uses:

      (2) Auto Dealership (new or used) only on property (or combination of properties) of
      at least one (1) acre having frontage on 12600 South and/or the Bangerter Highway.
      Such use must be on a finished commercial site, accompanied by approval of a
      Commercial Site Plan and include permanent and compliant office/sales building(s).

If approved as submitted, only the above conditions could be required. If the Planning
Commission was in favor of adding additional conditions, Mr. Prestwich suggested that the
item be continued to a future meeting to provide Staff time to draft the changes.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich reported that auto
dealerships are allowed in the Regional Commercial (C-R) Zone along 13400 South and
Bangerter Highway, as well as the Planned Commercial Center (PCC) Zone and some areas
of the SLR Master Development Zone. The subject property could not be rezoned to C-R
because that zone is intended for regional corridors and is not suitable for its location.

Commissioner Cannon stated that he is a partial owner of a property on 12600 South, and
as such, he must recuse himself from discussion and voting on the item.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 7
September 25, 2025


Chair Park stated that some vacant properties that are in the C-G Zone but abut residential
development would be affected if the Table of Commercial Uses was altered. A car
dealership would not be suitable for 1500 West beside the South Jordan Canal Trail or near
the golf course, for example. He was in favor of allowing auto dealerships along Bangerter
Highway but believed they would be out of place in areas of 12600 South and proposed that
the location be stricken from the proposed amendment.

Commissioner Matheson stated that he did not believe an auto dealership should be located
on such a small parcel and expressed concern about people test-driving cars in proximity to
the high school and elementary school. He was not in favor of making a decision that they
would later regret.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Kathrine Parnell spoke in opposition to the amendment. She believes it would open a can
of worms and allow the Use in higher-density areas. She approved of the business itself but
did not believe it was the right fit for the area.

Kristy Cox reiterated her earlier concern that there are too many similar businesses within a
few blocks of each other. She understood that it was a dealership and not a repair shop,
but the dealership would also perform repair services, and she believed it would place a
strain on similar existing businesses.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton noted that the Text Amendment would apply to the entire C-G Zone,
not a specific parcel, and changing the Table of Commercial Uses would allow auto
dealerships in other areas of the City. Unlike other nearby cities, the City Council did not
include auto dealerships in its Land Use Plan for this zone, but it does allow them in other
zones. He was not in favor of the amendment.

Commissioner Matheson felt bad for the Applicant who had purchased the land with the
intention of building an auto dealership. However, their intention did not mean it was right
for the City, and he believed the Planning Commission’s recommendation should be for
denial.

Chair Park stated that the Planning Commission prefers to move forward with good projects
and let the market decide on their success or failure, but their decision must be based on
what is best for the City and in agreement with the overall vision the City Council has created
for the community. He was only in favor of the amendment if 12600 South was removed
from the allowed locations.

Commissioner Rushton was in favor of recommending denial. The City Council could then
consider that recommendation and make a final determination.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               8
September 25, 2025


Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL of
Application PLZ-25-5008, “Auto Dealership in the C-G Zone Text Amendment.”
Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner
Matheson-Yes, Commissioner Beck-Yes, Commissioner Rushton-Yes, Commissioner
Keele-Yes, Chair Park-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

       E.    'SITE PLAN LANDSCAPING STANDARDS', PLZ-25-5007, RIVERTON CITY
             IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
             CODE, SECTION 18.215.030, RELATING TO LANDSCAPING AND TREE
             STANDARDS.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the amendment would clean up
language in existing Site Plan Development Standards related to landscaping but would not
add additional regulations. He then reviewed the changes.

   •   All references to the City Council or Planning Commercial were replaced with “Land
       Use Authority.” The Planning Commission would have final approval of Landscaping
       Plans, but this change would ensure that City Code would not need to be amended
       in the future if the City Council designated a different Land Use Authority.

   •   Language was clarified to indicate that the standards apply to any nonresidential use,
       including commercial uses like churches or private schools in residential zones.

   •   References to the Street Tree Master Plan were removed. That plan was created by
       the Riverton City Tree Board, which was dissolved many years ago.

   •   The following specifications were added:
          o 20 trees per acre are required
          o Street trees must be at 25-foot intervals along the property frontage
          o City Staff will determine the required tree species based on growth
              characteristics and site conditions, but the Land Use Authority will have final
              approval.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the changes would not impact the Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District Water Efficiency Standards that had been adopted by the City.

In response to a question from Chair Park, it was reported that Riverton City’s Arborist is
Roman Williams. Chair Park stated that it was important to have a trained, qualified arborist
to consult on these issues.

Mr. Prestwich reported that Staff was working to update all sections of City Code. This
section was brought to his attention when a landscaping company requested a copy of the
Street Tree Master Plan.

Commissioner Matheson had reviewed the amendment and approved of the changes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              9
September 25, 2025



Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-25-5007, “Landscape Guidelines,” by amending
Riverton City Code 18.215.030(3), as presented. Commissioner Keele seconded the
motion. The motion passed with unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

Chair Park commended Code Enforcement Officer, Chad Cataluna, for his thoroughness
and follow-up. He had demonstrated the process of filing a complaint to a neighbor, and
Officer Cataluna followed up with him quickly, even though he had indicated that it was only
a test.

5.    MINUTES

      A.     PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES FROM THE AUGUST 28, 2025,
             MEETING.

Chair Park moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of August 28, 2025, as reported. Commissioner
Matheson seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:08 PM.
