                     RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                              MEETING MINUTES
                                 MAY 28, 2026

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton, Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                   Staff:

Darren Park                                    Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Crystal Keele                                  Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                    Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Evan Matheson
Shelly Cluff
Monique Beck
Joe Marzo

1.    CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Darren Park called the Planning Commission Meeting to order at approximately
6:30 p.m. 19th Special Forces Group Master Sergeant, Dylan Tolley led the Pledge of
Allegiance.

2.    PUBLIC HEARINGS

      A.     “MERACAKESS LLC,” PLZ-26-2022, AN APPLICATION FOR A
             CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR A HOME OCCUPATION SELLING
             CAKES AND DESSERTS FROM A HOME LOCATED AT 13528 SOUTH
             COMMODUS DRIVE, APT# L102. APPLICANT – ADEMARYS RAMIREZ

Lisa Halversen, Planner, presented the Staff Report and indicated that the applicant,
Ademarys Ramirez, lives in a three-story townhome in Mountain Ridge Phase 17 in the
SLR Zone. She intended to bake and sell special cakes from her home. Customers will
order online via social media and schedule a pick-up or delivery time. Ms. Ramirez
anticipated baking no more than three cakes per day, most of which would be delivered
to customers. There will be no deliveries to her home, and only the kitchen and driveway
will be used for the Home Occupation.

Photographs and a site plan were reviewed. Per Riverton City Home Occupation Code,
all applications involving food or drink must receive Planning Commission approval. The
applicant would also be required to obtain approval from the Utah Department of Health.

Notice was sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. Two emailed
comments and one phone call were received expressing concerns about traffic and
parking. To address those concerns, Staff spoke with the applicant and discussed the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  2
May 28, 2026


importance of scheduling appointments one at a time and designating a customer parking
area in her driveway.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cannon, Ms. Halversen reported that
the applicant had provided a letter of permission from the HOA to do the home business.

Chair Park asked if the business was already in operation, and if the City allowed Home
Occupations in condominiums. Ms. Halversen clarified that it was a new application, and
any such restrictions would be placed by the HOA.

Jose Ramirez translated for the applicant. Her family business will operate online. She
makes cakes and desserts, which are picked up or delivered by appointment. Orders are
placed via text or social media.

Commissioner Cannon asked if the customers would come to the door to pick up their
orders or wait in their cars. It was confirmed that cakes will be brought to customers’ cars.

Commissioner Marzo asked if customers would be informed that they must park in the
driveway. It was reported that all customers are informed of the policy, but they
sometimes wait in the street. Chair Park clarified that, if the Home Occupation was
approved, all customers must park in the driveway. The applicant confirmed that the
condition would be met.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Randy Staples reported that he owns a condominium within 300 feet of the subject
property. He asked if the applicant was the property owner or a tenant. He said that
parking can be difficult if you own two cars because one must be parked in the driveway.
He also asked if there would be any advertising on the delivery vehicle and if HOA
approval had been obtained to operate a commercial business in a residential unit.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Ms. Halversen indicated that the applicant, Ademarys Ramirez, is the homeowner. Only
one parking space was required for the business and this is available in the driveway.
The applicant had submitted a letter of approval from the HOA.

Commissioner Cannon asked if the applicant could be required to place a small sign in
front of their garage indicating that it was the pickup location. Ms. Halversen stated that
signage would be at the applicant’s discretion, but she was aware that driveway pickup
was a condition of approval. Chair Park noted that the HOA may prohibit signage.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Marzo, Ms. Halversen confirmed that
guest parking was available nearby. One written comment suggested that the applicant
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              3
May 28, 2026


instruct customers to use guest parking, which she was free to do. The City’s concern
was that they not be allowed to park on the street.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-26-2022 “Meracakess LLC,” at 13528 South Commodus Drive, subject to the
following:

Conditions:

      1.      The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and
              all applicable Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, specifically the
              City Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and
              Fire Codes.

      2.      Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.      Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside
              agency approvals.

      4.      Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.      Applicant may use up to 25% of the main floor for the business.

      6.      Order pickups will be scheduled one at a time and customers will be
              provided driveway parking space.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.


      B.      "COMPASS INSURANCE,” PLZ-26-8001, AN APPLICATION FOR A
              FINAL COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN FOR AN OFFICE BUILDING TO BE
              LOCATED AT 13083 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD. APPLICANT –
              COURTNEY JENSEN

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and reviewed the aerial, General
Plan, and Zoning Maps. The subject property is south of City Hall. It is zoned C-PO and
surrounded by RR-22 properties.

The Final Site Plan was reviewed by all City Departments and determined to meet City
Code. Mr. Prestwich reported that the existing building at the rear of the property would
be removed. The office building would be at the front of the property, close to Redwood
Road, with a driveway to the north and parking at the rear.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   4
May 28, 2026



Mr. Prestwich reported that when plans are submitted, he first confirms that the building
meets all setback requirements. The proposed building met all setbacks, including the
special additional distance from the adjacent residential property to the south.

He next confirms that the plans include a boundary strip to adequately buffer between
uses. The required size of the strip changes based on use. For example, a store with
parking at the front would require a wider boundary strip on that frontage. If it was
adjacent to another commercial property, that boundary strip could be narrower. The
subject property would have a seven-foot boundary strip along all shared boundaries.

Next, parking count and landscaping percentage are confirmed. All commercial zones
require 20% landscaping, which is typically easy to meet due to setback and boundary
strip specifications. Parking is outlined in the adopted parking tables and based on the
square footage and use of the building. The subject property would have one stall more
than required, which was atypical for small parcels, as they generally struggle to meet
parking requirements.

The Site Plan is then reviewed for compliance with circulation, fire access, and Americans
with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) standards. Mr. Prestwich reported that the initial Site Plan
showed a straight sidewalk from the west, but had to be rerouted to comply with the ADA.
When building commences, the City Building Official visits the site to help set the grade
for ADA parking stalls before the hard surface is laid. Most businesses use concrete for
ADA stalls to ensure that grade requirements are met.

Parking stalls must be nine-and-a-half feet wide. Stalls that abut curbs must be 18 feet
long, and nose-to-nose stalls must be 20 feet long. Parking islands must typically be full-
size, but the Planning Commission had the authority to grant an exception if necessary
for traffic flow and safety. Staff recommended granting an exception for the subject
property, as requiring the standard size would eliminate parking stalls and cause issues
with traffic flow and snowplowing.

Mr. Prestwich reported that public comments had been received expressing concern
about the potential dumpster location. The dumpster location was not dictated by
ordinance but was required to be out of public view, walled, and gated.

The Landscape Plan was reviewed. A low-impact design was proposed. The City
requires 20 trees per acre, but no specific amount of grass or shrubs. The proposed park
strip was narrow and had no trees, as power and water lines prevented their installation.
There will be trees, grass, and rock along the entryway, and the majority of the trees will
be placed at the rear to shield the adjoining residential property. An eight-foot masonry
wall will be between the property and all incompatible zoning. The parking lot grade is
approximately two feet higher than the wall, so the fence in that area will effectively be six
feet tall.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    5
May 28, 2026


The Lighting Plan was reviewed, and Mr. Prestwich reported that no direct light would
leave the site. Lighting fixtures must shine straight down, and the light source must be
shielded. The proposed fixtures had been used elsewhere in the City and met all
requirements.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the proposed building design has been reviewed for
compliance with the City’s new standards. At least two materials must be used, but no
more than five. At least two and no more than five colors must also be used, not including
trim. Two main colors and black accents were proposed. The proposed materials were
stacked white stone with concrete block and Hardie Board planks. Rooftop mechanical
equipment would be screened by parapets.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Prestwich reported that
the boundary strip will be landscaped. Some businesses place their dumpster within the
boundary strip, which is allowed by code. The columnar trees in the boundary strip will
grow taller to screen the property but not overhang the property line. Commissioner
Matheson asked if there were any concerns about the line of sight for vehicles exiting the
property. Mr. Prestwich stated that it is a Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT")
controlled access, and their final approval is required prior to issuance of a building permit.
The application included an exhibit verifying that all sight lines meet UDOT standards.

Chair Park stated that vehicles exiting left from the property would cross three traffic lanes
in a school zone and asked whether left turns would be prohibited. Mr. Prestwich stated
that no turn island was proposed, and UDOT had approved full access. However, he
believes that they will eventually extend the island the length of Redwood Road.

Chair Park stated that all three sides of the subject property that bordered residential
zoning had existing vinyl fencing, but a solid eight-foot wall was required. He asked what
efforts were being taken to avoid having a fence within a fence. Mr. Prestwich reported
that the applicant has the right to fence their property. If the neighboring property owners
objected to the solid fence, the applicant could apply for a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”)
to move it completely onto their property. The boundary survey will be re-staked prior to
construction, and any conflicts that arise must be resolved between property owners prior
to moving forward. In response to a follow-up question, he clarified that a fence within a
fence is only allowed with a CUP. The City Council was concerned with ensuring that the
area between the fences is treated to prevent it from becoming a fire hazard.

Chair Park stated that the City was aware of the elevation issues on the east property line
as modifications were needed at the property across the street to prevent headlights from
shining into residents’ homes. He asked how the City would ensure that homes to the
east of the subject property would be protected from similar issues. Mr. Prestwich
reported that he spoke with the applicant about the issue. The plan was designed to
accommodate the slope, and the fence will be six feet above final grade in that area.
Fencing is measured five feet in from the property line.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
May 28, 2026


In response to a question raised by Commissioner Beck, City Attorney, Ryan Carter,
reported that “fence within a fence” means two fences that are within one foot of each
other and parallel.

Commissioner Marzo asked if there had been a discussion about moving the dumpster
as requested in a public comment. Mr. Prestwich reported that a specific location was
not required by City ordinance, and moving the dumpster would place it within proximity
of a different neighbor. The proposed location provided direct access for trash removal,
which would mean less noise generated from the vehicle backing up. Professional Office
is a permitted use in the C-PO Zone, and the dumpster location is not dictated by
ordinance. If the dumpster location or other impacts were a concern, it would be a
conditional use. For example, because grocery stores are conditional in the zone, the
City was able to limit the times of day the dumpster could be emptied. The same
requirement could not be placed on the subject property because it was a permitted use.

Commissioner Cannon stated that the zone restricts the types of uses in the area. There
was a deficit of office space in old Riverton, so he was encouraged to see some going in.
In response to his question, Mr. Prestwich stated that some retail would be allowed, but
it would be limited by available parking. C-PO is the City’s second most restrictive zone
and is a good fit for the subject property as it is surrounded by residential parcels.

The applicant, Laurel Bevans with RDGM Construction, introduced business owner
Courtney Jensen. Ms. Bevans reported that they suggested a right-in/right-out entry, but
UDOT denied the request. The dumpster location was chosen to maximize available
parking and provide easy access for the garbage truck. If it were moved, several parking
stalls would be eliminated.

Mr. Jensen reported that his business is a professional office that does not generate a lot
of garbage, and the eight-foot wall should block the dumpster from sight. He had been in
business for 27 years, selling health, dental, and vision insurance for small businesses
and individuals, and had outgrown the current location in South Jordan. In response to a
question raised by Chair Park, he reported that he may sublease space to other insurance
agents within the agency, but he planned to eventually occupy the entire space.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE
Application PLZ-26-8001, “Compass Insurance,” a Commercial Site Plan to be
located at 13083 South Redwood Road, subject to the following:
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                           7
May 28, 2026


Conditions:

      1.      Site Improvements and the Building, including the exterior finish,
              dumpster enclosures, and landscaping, and all other improvements
              shall be consistent with the plans presented to the Planning
              Commission except where otherwise noted.

      2.      Applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.

      3.      Site Landscaping shall include 20 trees per acre counted for the entire
              site.

      4.      Building and Site lighting shall be installed and screened according to
              Riverton City Standards.

      5.      The rooftop mechanical shall be screened from view according to the
              ordinance.

      6.      Wall-mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.

      7.      The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable
              Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, including the International
              Building and Fire Codes.

      8.      Storm drainage systems and accommodations shall comply with
              Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, and with the
              recommendations of the Riverton City Engineering Division. An
              offsite Storm Drain Pond must be built by others prior to this site
              getting occupancy from Riverton City.

      9.      The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm
              Water Management Plan according to Riverton City Standards and
              Ordinances prior to receiving building occupancy.

      10.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
              construction grading on the site.

      11.     The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

Commissioner Marzo seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.

Mr. Prestwich informed the applicant that they could now submit their building permit
application for review.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               8
May 28, 2026


      C.      “RIVER HAVEN AMENDED, LOTS 45 AND 46 (TOLLEY LOT LINE),”
              PLZ-25-1009, AN APPLICATION TO AMEND THE SHARED LOT LINE
              BETWEEN LOTS 45 AND 46 OF RIVER HAVEN ESTATES PHASE 2.
              APPLICANT – DYLAN TOLLEY.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the State Legislature recently changed how boundary
adjustments within subdivisions are handled, and the parties must now apply for a Plat
Amendment. The items were previously handled at the administrative level but now
require Planning Commission approval.

Zoning, Land Use, and aerial maps were reviewed. Mr. Prestwich reported that the fence
between the properties did not match the recorded lot lines, and the Plat Amendment
would move the parcel boundary to match the fence line. He noted that several properties
in the subdivision had similar issues. A survey had been submitted showing existing
conditions and proposed lot lines, and Staff verified that all setback and lot size
requirements were met. Staff recommended approval.

In response to a question raised by Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the new
boundary line would roughly follow the driveway but was modified slightly to meet lot size
requirements. The accessory structure met the five-foot setback requirement. In
response to a follow-up question, he reported that ownership affidavits were submitted by
both owners as both parties are required to change the boundary line. The properties
would still meet minimum lot size requirements.

The applicant, Dylan Tolley, stated that when he purchased his home, he was not aware
that the fence did not follow the lot line. It came to his attention when he applied for a
building permit for a planned garage. His neighbor agreed with the change.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-25-1009, “River Haven Estates Phase 2 Amended Subdivision (Tolley Lot Line
Adjustment),” subject to the following:

Conditions:

      1.      Subdivision Amendment lot and layout shall be consistent with the
              plans presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise
              noted.

      2.      Final Amended Plat must be recorded with Salt Lake County.

Commissioner Keele seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               9
May 28, 2026



      D.     “WALMART EV CHARGING STATIONS,” PLZ-26-8019, AN
             APPLICATION TO AMEND A COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN LOCATED AT
             13502 SOUTH HAMILTON VIEW DRIVE BY ADDING ELECTRIC
             VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS. APPLICANT – JULIE HEKKING,
             KIMLEY-HORN ENGINEERING.

Mr. Prestwich reported that a Building Permit was issued to Walmart for the pick-up area
modifications that were recently approved by the Planning Commission. The new
application was to install electric vehicle (“EV”) charging stations. Notices were sent to
property owners within 300 feet of the subject property but no comments were received.

The aerial map was reviewed, as well as photographs and diagrams of the proposed
charging stations. The charging area will be located adjacent to Hamilton View Drive.
Some parking islands will be removed and striping reconfigured to accommodate the EV
charging stations, and portions of four islands will also be removed to install an ADA-
accessible walking path to the storefront. All trees in the area will remain and provide
adequate screening.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the Landscape Plan was submitted late and not included in
the meeting packet. Sod in the area will be replaced with rock and shrubs, and additional
shrubs will be installed to screen the switchboard and transformer.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich reported that
electric charging stations are heavily regulated, and compliance with the electric code is
verified by the City’s Commercial Plans Examiner.

Chair Park asked why the EV charging stations were not placed near the fuel station.
Mr. Prestwich reported that the Building Code requires one charging station to be ADA
accessible, and ADA requires an accessible walking route to the storefront. The
proposed location met those requirements. Mountain View Village was also installing
charging stations, and the Building Official spent a large amount of time working on the
ADA and electrical requirements for that site.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, Mr. Prestwich stated that he had
no information on a potential EV charging station at the Bangerter Highway onramp, but
he occasionally hears speculation about that property.

Joanna Graham of Kimley-Horn spoke on behalf of the applicant. They planned to install
four level three chargers for customers to charge their vehicles while they shop. There
will be eight total charging stalls. She apologized for the delay in submitting the
Landscape Plan but indicated that it addressed Mr. Prestwich’s concerns about screening
the equipment. Both the transformer and switchboard would be screened with waterwise
landscaping, and no trees would be removed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 10
May 28, 2026


Commissioner Matheson asked if the chargers would be free to the public. Ms. Graham
reported that there is a fee for use. She did not have specific information on how payment
would be handled or the different types of chargers available. However, she could obtain
that information and forward it to Mr. Prestwich.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Ms. Graham confirmed that her firm also
installed the EV charging stations at the South Jordan Walmart and other locations in
Utah. Stations had been installed at approximately 10 locations in Utah over the past
year, and 14 were in process. It is a nationwide program.

Chair Park stated that photographs included with the application were of visually
appealing equipment, but large blue stations were installed in South Jordan. Ms. Graham
reported that blue is the Walmart standard and was the proposed color for the stations.
Chair Park stated that the other side of the parking lot near Bangerter Highway would be
a better location because nobody would care what they look like, but the proposed
location was at the main entrance. Ms. Graham stated that the location is chosen based
on a formula. They do not use the stalls directly in front of the building, but there must be
an ADA path to the storefront, and all ADA stalls must be as close to the building as
possible.

Chair Park asked if the applicant could install a different color charging station than the
one proposed in the application. Mr. Prestwich reported that the submitted plan set
included a specific charging station, and that specific station must be installed.
Otherwise, the applicant would be denied occupancy, and an amended Site Plan would
be required. Chair Park stated that he believed the Planning Commission was
comfortable with the charging station submitted with the application, but Ms. Graham
would need to inform her client that they were required to install that specific station and
not a large blue one.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cluff, Ms. Graham confirmed that
yellow bollards were proposed around the charging stations. Yellow is a typical color for
safety bollards, but it is not specified in code.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Chair Park stated that the South Jordan Walmart is in a more industrial area, whereas the
Riverton Walmart is adjacent to residential properties. The specified charging station is
unobtrusive and a better fit for the City. People who drive electric vehicles will know that
the charging area is there, but it will not be obvious from the road, which he believes is
appropriate for the location.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-26-8019, “Walmart EV Stations Amended Site Plan,” subject to the following:
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               11
May 28, 2026


Conditions:

      1.      Site Plan Improvements shall be consistent with the plans presented
              to the Planning Commission except where otherwise noted.

      2.      Existing trees shall be protected during construction. Trees removed
              shall be replaced with a similar species tree with a caliper of two
              inches or greater.

      3.      Landscaping shall be installed as presented.

      4.      Charging stations shall match the plans presented.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion. The motion passed with
unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    MINUTES

      A.      MINUTES FROM THE MAY 14, 2026, PLANNING COMMISSION
              MEETING.

Commissioner Keele moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of May 14, 2026, as presented. Commissioner
Matheson seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Commission.

Mr. Carter reported that he intended to conduct training at the meeting, but the item was
not publicly noticed on the agenda. He had emailed the Planning Commission earlier in
the week but only received one response, and he reminded the Commission that their
official email addresses must be a functional communication channel. The email included
basic instructions on how to review two hours of training online. One site requires each
Commissioner to set up an account that would also be used for future training. The
Planning Commission is required to complete four hours of training annually. He had
intended to have a question-and-answer session about the videos, after which their
training time could be logged.

Mr. Carter would be forwarding recent Private Property Rights Ombudsman’s Office
advisory opinions to the Commission. These opinions are part of an online library that is
very educational, as they address real conflicts that occurred between developers and
planning staff, planning commissions, or city councils. The Ombudsman is the land use
expert and a quasi-judicial body that issues advisory opinions on disputes that either
confirm or reject actions taken by a city. If the Ombudsman disagrees with a city’s actions
and the city fights the case in court and loses, the developer is awarded attorney’s fees.
City Staff speaks with the Ombudsman regularly. He is very knowledgeable and well-
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               12
May 28, 2026


respected, and has helped the city with difficult issues like purchasing a sidewalk strip
from a property owner with schizophrenia.

Mr. Carter instructed the Planning Commissioners to check their email and notify his office
if they did not receive the instructions. They should review the two videos prior to the
next meeting, where they will review the Ombudsman’s opinions and complete their
training requirement.

Commissioner Matheson stated that he would be out of town for the next meeting.
Mr. Carter stated that he should complete the online training and could make up the
additional hour. Consistent meeting attendance constitutes one hour of training, so only
three hours were needed.

Commissioner Marzo stated that he completed both training sessions and asked if he
should forward the certificate of completion from the first session to Staff. Mr. Carter
reported that the meeting minutes for the question-and-answer session will confirm the
training hours, and that item will be included on the next agenda.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Carter reported that the Information
Technology Department would contact those Commissioners who could not access their
email accounts.

It was noted that the only Planning Commission meeting in July would be held on July 9.

4.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:58 PM.
