                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            April 11, 2024
Subject:         PLZ-24-2012, Conditional Use Home Occupation, “Little Treeschool,” at
                 3024 West Desert Rose Drive. Applicant – Brendalyn Embley


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-24-2012, “Little Treeschool,” at 3024 West
Desert Rose Drive with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health Department approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The Home Occupation may have up to 12 children per session, and up to two sessions per
       day, Monday through Thursday.
    6. The Home Occupation may have up to 24 vehicle trips per day (12 vehicles) by
       customers/parents.
    7. Customers shall utilize the driveway for drop-off and pick-ups.
    8. Customers may not block driveways or mailboxes when waiting for drop-off or pick-up.
    9. Fencing that meets city code must be installed around pool before preschool classes may
       begin.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Little Treeschool,” an in-
home preschool for children 2 to 5 years old, to be located at 3024 West Desert Rose Drive. The
property is .19- acre and is in the southern center section of the city. The subdivision is
Summerfield Phase 2 and the property is zoned R-4 (10,000-sf minimum). The neighboring
properties are also zoned R-4. The home is a two-story and has approximately 2250- sf above
grade with a finished basement. The attached garage is 3-car with an extra-wide driveway on the
southwest side.
The applicant is requesting approval of a conditional use home occupation permit for in-home
 Report by: LH
preschool classes. She is asking for permission to have 12 children per session. She has
children of her own that are included in this number. Classes would be Monday through Thursday
with morning and afternoon sessions. Children will come at scheduled times that are staggered
to lessen the traffic impact on the neighborhood. She will be the only employee.
Child preschool classes are considered a child group activity and therefore have special
allowances in our City Home Occupation Ordinance. Child group activities are allowed more
visitors per day and more vehicle trips per day than a typical home occupation as approved by
the Commission. City code does not allow Ms. Embley more than 24 total vehicle trips per day
(12 cars) for her 24 students. This means that she will need to arrange for carpooling and/or
walking to and from the home.
The backyard is fenced for outdoor play time. However, applicant has a pool that is in the
process of being fenced. City code requires a 6’ non-climbable fence around a pool. Staff
suggests that commissioners allow applicant to work through the conditional use approval and
business licensing procedures concurrently with fence installation, but not allow classes to begin
until fencing is complete.
Diagrams also show the areas of the home that are to be used for classes. Her proposal is to use
around 50% of the basement space for her preschool.
This application comes to the commission because ordinance states any child day care or other
child group activity that exceeds 8 children/students per day is a conditional use to be approved
by the Planning Commission.



Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
allowing a maximum of twelve (12) children per session, two sessions per day, and a maximum
of 24-vehicle trips (12 vehicles) per day. All customer and parent parking must be off-street in
the driveway. Required fence around pool area must be installed before classes may begin.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. At the time of this report, no public comments had been received.




 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to follow the
rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance found in Title 18, Chapter
190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of use. As the
intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home occupations are reviewed
and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission only sees applications that are requesting
permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the application doesn’t fit within the
ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
Staff can approve some home occupations that have customers or employees if the proposed
business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications (18.190.070)
set forth in the ordinance.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards, but not meet all of the Qualifications it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact.
Conversely, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
        18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.

        The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
        to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
        commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
        exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

        (9) Child day care and other group child activities (e.g., dance schools, preschools, music
        classes, other care, or instruction for children) that are expected to generate or exceed eight
        children/students any day. The following guidelines shall be used by the planning commission to
        determine the maximum number of students/children permitted:

        (a) A traffic plan has been reviewed and approved by the planning department, which includes
        acceptable traffic flow, drop-off and turnaround areas.

        (b) A maximum of 12 students/children per session and a maximum of 24 students/children per
        day shall be permitted.

        (c) A maximum of three sessions per day may be permitted.

        (d) All sessions combined shall not generate more than 24 vehicular trips per day.

        (e) The total number of students/children shall include the licensee’s and any employees’
        children if they are under six years of age and are under the care of the licensee at the time the
        home occupation is conducted.

        (f) No child day care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation may be
        established within 300 feet as measured from property line to property line of another child day
        care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.     Public Notice including Area Map
         2.     Application
         3.     Transportation/Site Plan/Play Area
         4.     Street View, Aerial View




Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, April 11, 2024 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Brendalyn Embley is seeking approval for a home-based business, “Little Treehouse,” an in-home
preschool to be located at 3024 W. Desert Rose Drive. She is requesting permission for 2 sessions
per day between the hours of 9 am and 2:30 pm, Monday through Thursday. Pick-ups and drop-offs
will take place in the driveway, and any customer parking will also be in the driveway.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
