                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            October 24, 2024
Subject:         PLZ-24-2031 “Einkorn Mama”, a Conditional Use - Home Occupation
                 application for a home bakery located at 1984 West 13330 South. Applicant-
                 Melanie Hansen


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-24-2031 “Einkorn Mama”, at 1984 West
13330 South with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. Applicant may use up to 50% of the basement for the business.
    6. No business activity may take place before 7 am or after 7 pm.
    7. Number of customers per day is limited to twelve (12) and pick up times will be staggered.
    8. Customers must be provided off-street parking.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Einkorn Mama,” at 1984
West 13330 South in the southeast quadrant of the city. The property is .37-acre and is zoned R-
3 (minimum 15,000 sf lot). The adjoining neighborhood is zoned RR-22, R-3, and R-4. The
applicant has approximately 90 feet of frontage on 13330 South. The house is two-story with a
basement of over 2,000 sf. The attached garage is 3-car with about 800-sf. The property has a
drive approach on the east side of the house and a long driveway that can accommodate several
parked vehicles.

Ms. Hansen is applying for a conditional use – home occupation permit that will allow her to use
her basement kitchen to prepare bread and other baked goods that will have been ordered and
paid for by online customers. The customer will make an appointment for a pick-up time between 7
 Report by: LH
am and 7 pm. She anticipates up to 12 customers coming to the home for pickup a couple of days
per week. In some circumstances she will deliver the orders to the customers.

This application comes before the Planning Commission for two reasons - the applicant produces a
food product in a home kitchen and customers will be coming to the home to pick up their
purchases. New state law (HB 181) allows food production of non-meat or low-perishability
products in a home kitchen with reduced regulation, but Riverton City Code requires that such
applications be heard by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may also give
approval for up to twelve (12) customers per day for a home business not involving child care or
activities.



Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.
 Report by: LH
18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.

(6) Home Occupations Generating Excessive Traffic. Any home occupation which will generate in
excess of two customers or visitors per hour or six per day. A maximum of 12 business-associated
visitors per day may be allowed under a conditional use permit, except as provided for with child
day care and other group child activities.

(8) Food or Beverage Preparation. Any home occupation involving or proposing to involve food or
drink preparation, storage or catering.




18.190.060 Fixed standards.

             4.a. (i) The property has sufficient space on the lot to accommodate all employee and
             business-related vehicles and that on-street parking will not be necessary.

             (vii) The home occupation will not require any signage.

             (6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the
             home occupation, including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and
             use off-street parking. Off-street parking must also be provided for customers, clients or
             business-related visitor vehicles.

             (8) Designating Areas of Property to Be Used. The home occupation applicant must
             designate the portion of the home, accessory structure, yard, attached or detached
             garage dedicated as the principal location for business activities.




18.190.070 Qualifications.
In addition to the fixed standards set forth in RCC 18.190.060, all staff-reviewed home occupations
must also comply with the requirements outlined in this section. If a business finds that they are
unable to fully comply with all of the requirements as set forth in this section, the applicant may
pursue possible approval as a conditional use home occupation.

(4) Conducted in a Home. When business activities are being conducted on the property that is to
be licensed, the home occupation shall be conducted within the principal home or enclosed areas.
 Report by: LH
(5) Maximum Floor Space. With the exception of short term rentals, no more than 25 percent of
the total main floor area and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit shall be used for home
occupation. As an alternative to use of main and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit, up to 50
percent of the basement of a home unit may be utilized for home occupation.

(7) Display of Products. The home occupation may include the sale of tangible goods. Direct sales
from display apparatus are permitted only if the goods or products are not visible from the
exterior of any approved structure being used for the home occupation.




Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. No comments have been received at this time.




 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1.     Public Notice including Area Map
          2.     Application
          3.     Site Plan
          4.     Parking Plan
          5.     Aerial View
          6.     Street Views




 Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, October 10, 2024 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd.
                                               to take public comment on the following application:
                                 Melissa Hansen is requesting a conditional use for a home
occupation “Einkorn Mama” to be located at 1984 West 13330 South. Her business will be making
bread in a basement kitchen. Work will be conducted in a basement kitchen and she will have no
employees. She anticipates that customers will come to her home to pick up their orders.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
