                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 13, 2024
Subject:         “Paige Retail Plaza Development Agreement” Approximately 3.9 Acres
                 Located at the SE Corner of 12800 S & Redwood Road Currently Zoned C-D,
                 Development Agreement Includes Pedestrian Oriented Overlay (PO-OV),
                 Architectural & Commercial Site Plan Requirements, and Constitutes Zoning
                 and Site Plan Approvals, Riverton City/Jared Osmond, Applicants.


This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final decision
authority for rezone applications.

Sample Motion to Recommend Approval.
I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of the Development Agreement for
Paige Retail Plaza, located at the southeast corner of 12800 S and Redwood Road, with the
following elements:
     1. The Pedestrian Oriented Overlay (PO-OV) shall be applied to the entire 3.9 acres,
         with the resulting zoning as C-D/PO-OV
     2. Minimum setbacks for structures and parking areas/drive aisles shall be as shown on
         the included site plan
     3. Buildings shall be limited to a single story, with architecture and exterior materials as
         shown in the included architectural drawings. Landscaping shall be compliant with
         the included tabulations.
     4. Building facades facing Redwood Road will include architectural elements consistent
         with those shown in the included architectural drawings.
     5. Tree “diamonds” shall be allowed within parking rows in place of ‘islands”, but shall
         not be allowed as endcaps or at the terminus of parking rows.
     6. The east property line(s) shall include a minimum six (6) foot masonry fence and
         landscaped buffer area.
     7. The dumpster enclosure area shall include trees on the east side to enhance
         screening and sound mitigation.
     8. Site layout and engineering shall be subject to final review and ‘redlines’.
     9. Improvements shall be made to 12910 South in compliance with Riverton City
         Standards and Specifications.
     10. Development shall be in compliance with the approved Development Agreement, and
         with all applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances.

Sample Motion to Recommend Denial.
I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of Development Agreement for Paige
Retail Plaza, located at the southeast corner of 12800 S and Redwood Road.
Background

This item is a public hearing for a Development Agreement. Per Utah State Code, a development
agreement can be approved under the same process as a rezone, as a development agreement can
set development standards and restrictions similar to zoning. The property in question is
approximately 3.9 acres located at the southeast corner of 12800 South and Redwood Road, directly
east of Riverton City Hall. The properties are zoned Commercial Regional. A portion of the acreage,
comprising several parcels, are owned by Riverton City’s Redevelopment Agency, which has placed
the entire property area within a Community Reinvestment Area (CRA) to allow the City to allow the
City to participate in redevelopment of the area. In this case, under the CRA the City properties will
be incorporated into the development area.

This area has been the focus of redevelopment efforts by the City for some time, and this and other
proposals have been reviewed and considered by the City. The Riverton Redevelopment Agency
has made the determination that this project will comply with the goals of redevelopment area and
with the overall vision for the Downtown Area. The underlying zoning has been commercial since at
least the 1990’s and has remained designated for commercial development in the Riverton City
General Plan since its inception.

The project is retail commercial, which is a use consistent with existing Commercial Downtown Zone.
While a typical commercial site plan is approved by the Planning Commission, the development
agreement here will constitute both zoning and site plan approval, as there are negotiated terms and
conditions included. As such, the final approval is with the City Council, and the Planning
Commission will make a recommendation to that body.

Negotiated terms of the redevelopment project generally include a limitation to single story buildings,
architectural features consistent with the Riverton City Hall building, reduced setbacks along
Redwood Road per the Pedestrian Oriented Overlay and as shown, and allowance for use of tree
diamonds within the parking areas, as described below. The southernmost parcels currently are a
surface stormwater pond which includes storage for Redwood Road. The site plan will place storage
volume underground in tanks, which will be below the parking areas.

The site plan includes four (4) multi-tenant buildings, three of which have drive-through access. Total
square footage within the project is just over 36,000 square feet. The buildings are at the far western
side of the property, away from the existing residential development to the east. The drive-through
areas are predominantly screened by the buildings themselves. The dumpster location is on the east
side of the project but is located with additional spacing between it and the property line. That area
will be landscaped and will include trees to help mitigate any impacts from the dumpster location.
The east property line will include a six (6) foot masonry fence.

Building architecture includes elements consistent with the Riverton City Hall building. These include
brick of similar color tones, keystone arch features, divided windows, and accent materials. 3-D
renderings and line drawings are included. All buildings will be consistent with these design
standards. Final approval of the site plan, building architecture, and civil engineering design will be
made administratively provided all terms of the Development Agreement, Riverton City standards
and specifications, and underlying zoning where applicable are met.

The Pedestrian Oriented Overlay is part of Riverton City’s zoning ordinance used to encourage
orientation of buildings toward a public right-of-way and allows for reduced building setbacks
adjacent to the roadway. The development agreement allows for slightly reduced setbacks along the
west property line for drive aisles, provided all other standards and specifications for such areas are
met. This has also allowed the project to maximize the separation between the buildings and the
existing residential properties to the east.

As noted above, one allowance in the development agreement is for the use of tree “diamonds”
within the parking area. Riverton City’s parking ordinance typically requires full landscaped islands
within those rows, but to ensure adequate parking while maintain landscaping and tree coverage, the
development agreement stipulates that diamonds may be used as shown, but not as end caps or
terminus points for any parking rows.

Access to the project area will be from the existing 12910 South roadway, which is the southern
boundary of the project, and from 12800 South at the northeast corner of the project. There will be
no direct access from the project area into the residential development to the east. Projected traffic
volumes are within the capacity of both 12800 South and 12800 South.

Staff is recommending approval of the development agreement, with the conditions outlined above.
The Commission may include any additional conditions or requirements in their recommendation to
the City Council. The development group will be present at the hearing to present additional
information and respond to questions or concerns from the Commission.



Public Notices and Response
Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s
webpage. The notices indicated a public hearing to be held with the Planning Commission, and
final decision by the City Council at their June 18th hearing. Staff received general questions
regarding the development, including a concern regarding potential smells from the site.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Area Photos
       2.   Area Zoning Map.
       3.   Area General Plan Map.
       4.   Site plan and architectural renderings
       5.   Draft Development Agreement
       6.   Pedestrian Oriented Overlay Zone
                                                                                                                                                             PAIGE RETAIL PLAZA
      NOTES:

       1)    ALL WORK TO BE CONSTRUCTED PER RIVERTON CITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL PROJECT AREA:           3.86 ACRES
                                                                                        NOTE:


                                                                                                                                                                 SITE PLAN
                  STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND PLANS MANUAL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TOTAL # OF LOTS:                 1 LOT
                                                                                        ALL PARKING STALLS TO BE 4" WHITE STRIPE.
       2)    REFER TO RIVERTON CITY STANDARD ENGINEERING                                ADA STRIPING TO BE 4" SOLID WHITE STRIPE                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL # OF BUILDINGS:                 4
             NOTES (SECTION 7.1)                                                        CROSSWALKS TO BE 12" SOLID WHITE STRIPE.                                                                                                                                                              SQ. FT. OF PROPOSED BUILDINGS: 36,008 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Office: (801) 377-1790 Fax: (801) 377-1789
       3)    A LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT MUST BE OBTAINED FROM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL # OF PARKING SPACES:      184 STALLS
             RIVERTON CITY PRIOR TO DISTURBING ANY VEGETATION                                                                                                                RIVERTON, UTAH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  578 East 770 North, Orem UT 84058
             OR MOVING ANY SOIL. CONTACT RIVERTON CITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROPOSED # OF ADA STALLS:        8 STALLS
             STORMWATER DIVISION AT 801-208-3152.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PERCENTAGE OF BUILDABLE LAND 100%
        4)   A RIGHT-OF WAY ENCROACHMENT PERMIT MUST BE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SENSITIVE LAND AREA:             0
             OBTAINED FROM RIVERTON CITY PRIOR TO DOING ANY
                                                                                                                                                                             MAY , 2024                                                                                                                                                                       0                                      30         60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LANDSCAPING AREA:               0.74 AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Feet
             WORK IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. CONTACT RIVERTON CITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - % OF TOTAL:                   19.1%
             PERMITS/UTILITY MANAGER AT 801-208-3172.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IMPERVIOUS AREA:                3.12 AC
       5)    A TYPE II SLURRY SEAL (OR APPROVED EQUAL) SHALL
             BE PLACED PER APWA 32 01 13.61 AT THE CONCLUSION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - % OF TOTAL:                   80.9%
             OF THE WARRANTY PERIOD AND PRIOR TO WARRANTY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ZONING:                       C-D DOWNTOWN
             RELEASE.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPOSED USE:                 COMMERCIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LEGEND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RETAIL / TAKE OUT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARKING TABULATIONS                                                                             OPEN SPACE / LANDSCAPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Total Stall    Stalls
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Parcel     Sq Ft                Code                Per Code      Provided                                         FALL OUT CURB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Commercial   36,008          1 space per 200 sf           180          184                                          ADA ACCESSIBLE ROUTE TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PUBLIC R.O.W.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EASEMENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROPERTY LINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SETBACKS




                                                                                                                                                                EXIST.CURB




                                                                                              EXIST. 5' SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EXIST. 5' SIDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WALK
                             NEW 5' SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Notes
                           SEE APWA PLAN #231

                      NEW 2.5' CURB & GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                      5' SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISIONS
                        SEE APWA #205 TYPE A
                                                                 5' SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             By
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ADA                                                 NEW 5' SIDEWALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5' SIDEWALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RAMP                                                 SEE APWA PLAN #231
                                   12910 SOUTH (EXIST. PUBLIC)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Date
                                                                                                                                     ADA                        ADA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ADA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12800 SOUTH (EXIST. PUBLIC)
                                                                                          ADA                                                                  RAMP
                                                                                                                                    RAMP                                                                                 ADA                     RAMP
                                                                                          RAMP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RAMP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             No.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12 STALLS                                                                                                       Designed

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Drawn

                                                                               DRIVE-                                                      DRIVE-   DRIVE-                   DRIVE-
                                                                                                                                                                                                    DRIVE-
                                                                                                                                                                                                    THRU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12 STALLS                                                                                                                                                                        Checked
                                                                               THRU                                                        THRU     THRU
                                                                                                                                                               12 STALLS     THRU                    EXIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRIVE-
                                                                                EXIT                 12 STALLS                                       EXIT                                                                                                              THRU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Date




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9 STALLS


                                                                                                          48 STALLS                                                           48 STALLS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CURB
                        EXIST.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PAIGE RETAIL PLAZA
                      ASPHALT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERTON, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DUMPSTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                             4 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4 STALLS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOCATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Drawing Name:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Location:
     1-800-662-4111




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Title:
                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT NO.



 Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SHEET NO.
    Callbefore you dig.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.01
PRINT DATE: 5/23/2024
Draft Development Agreement
                   MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                FOR
                            PROJECT NAME




                                   DATE




Last Update Date            Riverton City Contract #   Page 1 of 33
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:


ATTORNEY NAME
LAW FIRM
MAILING ADDRESS
CITY, STATE ZIP

                           MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                        FOR
                                    PROJECT NAME

          THIS MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (“MDA”) is made and entered into as

of the 01 day of October, 2021, by and between Riverton City, a Utah municipality and party to

MDA, and ___________________type of company, incorporated in the state of Utah.

                                             RECITALS

          A. The capitalized terms used in this MDA and in these Recitals are defined in Section

1.2, below.

          B. Master Developer owns and is developing the Property.

          C. Master Developer and the City desire that the Property be developed in a unified and

consistent fashion pursuant to the Master Plan.

          D. The Parties acknowledge that development of the Property pursuant to this MDA will

result in significant planning and public safety benefits to the City and its residents by, among

other things promoting orderly development of the Property as a subdivision known as project

name and resolving land use and transportation difficulties created by the State of Utah,

Department of Transportation’s expansion of Redwood Road.

          E. The Parties desire to enter into this MDA to specify the rights and responsibilities of

the Master Developer to develop the Property as expressed in this MDA and the rights and

responsibilities of the City to allow and regulate such development pursuant to the requirements
Last Update Date                           Riverton City Contract #                        Page 2 of 33
of this MDA, Riverton City Code, and Utah statutory law.

          F. The Parties understand and intend that this MDA is a “development agreement” within

the meaning of, and entered into pursuant to the terms of the Municipal Land Use Development

and Management Act, Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-101 (2021) et seq.

          G. With the execution of this Development Agreement, the City shall rezone the

property to include a Pedestrian Oriented Overlay Zone and make other technical revisions to

City Vested Laws, based on and limited to submittals attached as exhibits to this Agreement and

as described in Section 3.2 of this Agreement.

          H. This MDA conforms with the intent of the City’s General Plan and the Zoning.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, and

other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby

acknowledged, the City and Master Developer hereby agree to the following:

                                                  TERMS

     1. Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits/ Definitions.

          1.1. Incorporation. The foregoing Recitals and the following Exhibits “A” - “F” are

          hereby incorporated into this MDA.

          1.2. Definitions. As used in this MDA, the words and phrases specified below shall have

          the following meanings:

               1.2.1. Act means the Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Utah Code Ann.

               § 10-9a-101 (2018), et seq.

               1.2.2. Administrator means the person designated by the City as the Administrator

               of this MDA.

               1.2.3. Applicant means a person or entity submitting a Development Application.
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                      Page 3 of 33
               1.2.4. Buildout means the completion of all of the development on the entire Project

               in accordance with the approved plans.

               1.2.5. City means Riverton City, a Utah municipality.

               1.2.6. City Consultants means those outside consultants employed by the City in

               various specialized disciplines such as traffic, hydrology or drainage for reviewing

               certain aspects of the development of the Project.

               1.2.7. City’s Future Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures

               which may be in effect as of a particular time in the future when a Development

               Application is submitted for a part of the Project and which may or may not be

               applicable to the Development Application depending upon the provisions of this

               MDA.

               1.2.8. City’s Vested Laws means the ordinances, policies, standards and procedures

               of the City in effect as of the date of this MDA.

               1.2.9. Council means the elected City Council of the City.

               1.2.10. Default means a material breach of this MDA as specified herein.

               1.2.11. Denied means a formal denial issued by the final decision-making body of the

               City for a particular type of Development Application but does not include review

               comments or “redlines” by City staff.

               1.2.12. Development means the development of a portion of the Property pursuant to

               an approved Development Application.

               1.2.13. Development Application means an application to the City for development

               of a portion of the Project including a Site Plan or any other permit, certificate or

               other authorization from the City required for development of the Project.
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                           Page 4 of 33
               1.2.14. Development Report means a report containing the information specified in

               Section 2.4.

               1.2.15. Final Plat means the recordable map or other graphical representation of land

               prepared in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-603 (2018), or any successor

               provision, and approved by the City, effectuating a Subdivision of any portion of the

               Project.

               1.2.16. Master Developer means party to MDA, and its assignees or transferees as

               permitted by this MDA.

               1.2.17. Master Site Plan means the conceptual layout for Commercial Tenant Units

               and Public Infrastructure for the Project

               1.2.18. Maximum Commercial Units means the development on the Property of

               twenty (20) Commercial tenant units.

               1.2.19. MDA means this Master Development Agreement including all of its

               Exhibits.

               1.2.20. Notice means any notice to or from any Party to this MDA that is either

               required or permitted to be given to another party.

               1.2.21. Parcel means a portion of the Property that is created by the Master

               Developer to be sold to a Subdeveloper as a Subdivision that is not an individually

               developable lot as specified in Section 5.9.

               1.2.22. Party/Parties means, in the singular, Master Developer or the City; in the

               plural Master Developer and the City.

               1.2.23. Planning Commission means the City’s Planning Commission.



Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                         Page 5 of 33
               1.2.24. Project means the total development to be constructed on the Property

               pursuant to this MDA with the associated public and private facilities, and all of the

               other aspects approved as part of this MDA.

               1.2.25. Property means the real property owned by and to be developed by Master

               Developer more fully described in Exhibit "A".

               1.2.26. Public Infrastructure means those elements of infrastructure that are planned

               to be dedicated to the City as a condition of the approval of a Development

               Application.

               1.2.27. Subdeveloper means a person or an entity not “related” (as defined by

               Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code) to Master Developer which purchases a

               Parcel for development.

               1.2.28. Subdivision means the division of any portion of the Project into developable

               lots pursuant to State Law and/or the Zoning Ordinance.

               1.2.29. Subdivision Application means the application to create a Subdivision.

               1.2.30. Zoning means the zone for the Property adopted by the City on month xx,

               20xx.

               1.2.31. Zoning Ordinance means the City’s Land Use and Development Ordinance

               adopted pursuant to the Act that was in effect as of the date of this MDA as a part of

               the City’s Vested Laws.

     2. Development of the Project.

          2.1. Compliance with the Master Plan and this MDA. Development of the Project

          shall be in accordance with the City’s Vested Laws, the City’s Future Laws (to the extent

          that these are applicable as otherwise specified in this MDA), the Master Plan and this
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                         Page 6 of 33
          MDA.     The development of the Property shall also conform to all Exhibits incorporated

          into this MDA.

          2.2. Maximum Commercial Units. At Buildout of the Project, Master Developer shall

          be entitled to have developed the Maximum Commercial Units allowed pursuant to the

          zoning density designated for the Property, after taking all other development standards

          into account under the City’s Vested Laws.

          2.3. Limitation and No Guarantee. Master Developer acknowledges that the

          development of the Maximum Commercial Units and every other aspect of the Master

          Plan requires that each Development Application comply with the City’s Vested Laws.

          The City’s entry into this MDA does not guarantee that the Master Developer will be able

          to construct the Maximum Commercial Units or any other aspect of the Project until and

          unless all the applicable requirements of the City’s Vested Laws are complied with.

          2.4. Accounting for Commercial Units for Parcels Sold to Subdevelopers. Any

          Parcel sold by Master Developer to a Subdeveloper shall include the transfer of a

          specified portion of the Maximum Commercial Units sold with the Parcel.

     3. Vested Rights.

          3.1. Vested Rights Granted by Approval of this MDA. To the maximum extent

          permissible under the laws of Utah and the United States and at equity, the Parties intend

          that this MDA grants Master Developer all rights to develop the Project in fulfillment of

          this MDA, the City’s Vested Laws, the Zoning and the Master Plan except as specifically

          provided herein. The Parties specifically intend that this MDA grant to Master Developer

          “vested rights” as that term is construed in Utah’s common law and pursuant to Utah

          Code Ann. § 10-9a-509 (2018).
Last Update Date                           Riverton City Contract #                           Page 7 of 33
          3.2. Vested Right in Development Standards Inconsistent with Established City

          Vested Laws. The Salient features of the Project call for it to be developed under

          standards which differ from the City’s Vested Laws in the following Respects.

               3.2.1. Landscape Strips. Riverton City Code Sections 18.145.050(1) requires “All

               parking areas for a commercial use that are adjacent to a public street shall have a

               landscaped, bermed strip of not less than 10 feet placed between the sidewalk and the

               parking area.” Riverton City Code Section 18.215.030(3)(g) similarly requires “In

               cases where a building(s) is set back from any street, and parking is contained in the

               front or the side of a building(s), a landscaped strip of no less than 10 feet wide shall

               be placed between the sidewalk and the parking lot.” The landscape strip for the

               Project which lies adjacent to any public rights of way shall be reduced to seven (7)

               feet.

               3.2.2. Landscape Islands. Riverton City Code Section 18.145.050(5) requires “On

               double rows of parking stalls, there shall be one 40-foot by nine-foot landscaped

               island on each end of all parking rows, plus one 40-foot by nine-foot landscaped

               island to be placed at a minimum of every twentieth parking space.” The landscaped

               features for the Project shall require tree diamonds at a minimum of every twelfth in

               lieu of land scape islands at every twentieth parking space.

               3.2.3. Parking Abutting Building. Riverton City Code 18.145.050(8) requires

               separation between buildings and parking lots as follows: “(a) In the front of the

               building by a four-foot sidewalk and a five-foot landscaped strip or as approved by

               the city council upon recommendation from the planning commission. (b) On the

               side and rear of the building by a five-foot landscaped strip.” Landsape buffering
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                            Page 8 of 33
               between buildings and parking areas shall be required as shown in the Project Site

               Plan as shown in Exhibit _______.

               3.2.4. Architecture of buildings. Stated Generally, Riverton City Code Section

               18.215.030(2) requires buildings to abide by a “turn of the century” architectural

               theme. The architecture for the Project as described in attached Exhibit ___ shall be

               deemed to meet architectural themes required for the Project, with specific emphasis

               on facades facing Redwood Road and additional repeated elements on all sides of

               structures.

               3.2.5. Project Access to 12910 South. Ingress and egress between the project and

               12910 South Street shall be constructed according to the attached Exhibit ___.

               3.2.6. Additional landscaping not required by the City’s Vested Laws. The Project

               shall feature landscaping features which exceed the minimum standards for

               landscaping in the surrounding dumpster enclosure and along the east property line of

               the Project according to the attached Exhibit ____.

          3.3. Exceptions. The restrictions on the applicability of the City’s Future Laws to the

          Project as specified in Section 3.1 are subject to only the following exceptions:

               3.3.1. Master Developer Agreement. City’s Future Laws that Master Developer

               agrees in writing to the application thereof to the Project;

               3.3.2. State and Federal Compliance. City’s Future Laws which are generally

               applicable to all properties in the City and which are required to comply with State

               and Federal laws and regulations affecting the Project;

               3.3.3. Codes. Any City’s Future Laws that are updates or amendments to existing

               building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous buildings, drainage, or similar
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                         Page 9 of 33
               construction or safety related codes, such as the International Building Code, the

               APWA Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control

               Devices or similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide

               recognized construction/safety organization, or by the State or Federal governments

               and are required to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or

               welfare;

               3.3.4. Taxes. Taxes, or modifications thereto, so long as such taxes are lawfully

               imposed and charged uniformly by the City to all properties, applications, persons

               and entities similarly situated;

               3.3.5. Fees. Changes to the amounts of fees for the processing of Development

               Applications that are generally applicable to all development within the City (or a

               portion of the City as specified in the lawfully adopted fee schedule) and which are

               adopted pursuant to State law;

               3.3.6. Impact Fees. Impact Fees or modifications thereto which are lawfully adopted,

               and imposed by the City and which meet all requirements of the U. S. Constitution,

               Utah Constitution, law and applicable statutes, including but not limited to Utah Code

               Ann. Section 11-36a-101 (2018) et seq.;

               3.3.7. Planning and Zoning Modification. Changes by the City to its planning

               principles and design standards such as architectural or design requirements, setbacks

               or similar items so long as such changes do not work to reduce the Maximum

               Commercial Units, are generally applicable across the entire City and do not

               materially and unreasonably increase the costs of any Development; or

               3.3.8. Compelling, Countervailing Interest. Laws, rules or regulations that the City’s
Last Update Date                              Riverton City Contract #                        Page 10 of 33
               land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid jeopardizing a

               compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-

               509(1)(a)(i) (2018).

     4. Term of Agreement. The effective date of this MDA shall be month xx, 2024. This

MDA shall expire month xx, 2027. If Master Developer has not been declared to be currently in

Default as of month xx, 2027. This MDA shall also terminate automatically at Buildout.

     5. Processing of Development Applications.

          5.1. Acceptance of Certifications Required for Development Applications. Any

          Development Application requiring the signature, endorsement, or certification and/or

          stamping by a person holding a license or professional certification required by the State

          of Utah in a particular discipline shall be so signed, endorsed, certified or stamped

          signifying that the contents of the Development Application comply with the applicable

          regulatory standards of the City. The City should endeavor to make all of its redlines,

          comments or suggestions at the time of the first review of the Development Application

          unless any changes to the Development Application raise new issues that need to be

          addressed.

          5.2. Independent Technical Analyses for Development Applications. If the City

          needs technical expertise beyond the City’s internal resources to determine impacts of a

          Development Application such as for structures, bridges, water tanks, and other similar

          matters which are not required by the City’s Vested Laws to be certified by such experts

          as part of a Development Application, the City may engage such experts as City

          Consultants with the actual and reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          The City Consultant undertaking any review by the City required or permitted by
Last Update Date                            Riverton City Contract #                            Page 11 of 33
          this MDA shall be selected from a list generated by the City for each such City

          review pursuant to a “request for proposal” process or as otherwise allowed by

          City ordinances or regulations. Applicant may, in its sole discretion, strike from

          the list of qualified proposers any of such proposed consultants so long as at least

          three (3) qualified proposers remain for selection. The anticipated cost and

          timeliness of such review may be a factor in choosing the expert. The actual and

          reasonable costs being the responsibility of Applicant.

          5.3. City Denial of a Development Application. If the City denies a Development

          Application the City shall provide a written determination advising the Applicant of the

          reasons for denial including specifying the reasons the City believes that the

          Development Application is not consistent with this MDA, the Zoning and/or the City’s

          Vested Laws (or, if applicable, the City’s Future Laws).

          5.4. Meet and Confer regarding Development Application Denials. The City and

          Applicant shall meet within twenty-one (21) calendar days of any Denial to resolve the

          issues specified in the Denial of a Development Application.

          5.5. City Denials of Development Applications Based on Denials from Non-City

          Agencies. If the City’s denial of a Development Application is based on the denial of the

          Development Application by a Non-City Agency, Applicant shall appeal any such denial

          through the appropriate procedures for such a decision and not through the processes

          specified below.

          5.6. Mediation of Development Application Denials.

               5.6.1. Issues Subject to Mediation. Issues resulting from the City’s Denial of a


Last Update Date                            Riverton City Contract #                         Page 12 of 33
               Development Application that the parties are not able to resolve by “Meet and

               Confer” shall be mediated and include the following:

                                  (i)     the location of On-Site Infrastructure, including utility lines

                                  and stub outs to adjacent developments,

                                  (ii)    right-of-way modifications that do not involve the altering

                                  or vacating of a previously dedicated public right-of-way,

                                  (iii)   interpretations, minor technical edits or inconsistencies

                                  necessary to clarify or modify documents consistent with their

                                  intended purpose of the Development Standards, and

                                  (iv)    the issuance of building permits.

               5.6.2. Mediation Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve a

               disagreement subject to mediation, the parties shall attempt within fifteen (15)

               calendar days to appoint a mutually acceptable mediator with knowledge of the legal

               issue in dispute. If the City and Applicant are unable to agree on a single acceptable

               mediator they shall each, within fifteen (15) calendar days, appoint their own

               representative. These two representatives shall, between them, choose the single

               mediator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen mediator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen mediator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

               days, review the positions of the parties regarding the mediation issue and promptly

               attempt to mediate the issue between the parties. If the parties are unable to reach

               agreement, the mediator shall notify the parties in writing of the resolution that the

               mediator deems appropriate. The mediator's opinion shall not be binding on the

               parties.
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                          Page 13 of 33
          5.7. Arbitration of Development Application Objections.

               5.7.1. Arbitration Process. If the City and Applicant are unable to resolve an issue

               through mediation, the parties may then attempt within fifteen (15) calendar days to

               appoint a mutually acceptable arbitrator with knowledge of the legal issue in dispute.

               If the parties are unable to agree on a single acceptable arbitrator they shall each,

               within fifteen (15) calendar days, each Party shall appoint their own individual

               appropriate expert. These two experts shall, between them, choose the single

               arbitrator. Applicant and the City shall split the fees of the chosen arbitrator, each

               Party paying 50% of the fees. The chosen arbitrator shall within fifteen (15) calendar

               days, review the positions of the parties regarding the arbitration issue and render a

               decision. The arbitrator shall ask the prevailing party to draft a proposed order for

               consideration and objection by the other side. Upon adoption by the arbitrator, and

               consideration of such objections, the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding

               upon both parties. If the arbitrator determines as a part of the decision that the City’s

               or Applicant’s position was not only incorrect but was also maintained unreasonably

               and not in good faith then the arbitrator may order the City or Applicant to pay the

               arbitrator’s fees.

          5.8. Parcel Sales. The City acknowledges that the precise location and details of the

          public improvements, lot layout and design and any other similar item regarding the

          development of a particular Parcel may not be known at the time of the creation of or sale

          of a Parcel. Master Developer may obtain approval of a Subdivision as is provided in

          Utah Code Ann., Section 10-9a-103(57)(c)(v) (2018) that does not create any

          individually developable lots in the Parcel without being subject to any requirement in
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                           Page 14 of 33
          the City’s Vested Laws to complete or provide security for any Public Infrastructure at

          the time of such subdivision. The responsibility for completing and providing security

          for completion of any Public Infrastructure in the Parcel shall be that of the Master

          Developer or a Subdeveloper upon a subsequent re-Subdivision of the Parcel that creates

          individually developable lots. However, construction of improvements shall not be

          allowed until the Master Developer or Subdeveloper complies with the City’s Vested

          Laws.

     6. Application Under City’s Future Laws. Without waiving any rights granted by this

MDA, Master Developer may at any time, choose to submit a Development Application for all

or part of the Project under the City’s Future Laws in effect at the time of the Development

Application so long as Master Developer is not in current breach of this Agreement.

     7. Public Infrastructure.

          7.1. Construction by and Master Developer. Master Developer shall have the right and

          the obligation to design, construct and/or cause to be constructed and installed all Public

          Infrastructure reasonably and lawfully required as a condition of approval of the

          Development Application pursuant to the City’s Vested Laws. Said Public Infrastructure

          required of Master Developer for the Project shall include the redesign and construction

          of stormwater management facilities, including a detention pond and related piping

          located on Parcel Nos. 27-34-251-035; 27-34-251-006; and 27-34-251-036 which detain

          and discharge from nearby public roadways. Said redesign shall cause said storm water

          to be detained in below ground detention facilities before their eventual discharge into

          stormwater piping owned and maintained by the City. Said Redesign is more fully

          described in the Attached Exhibit ________.
Last Update Date                           Riverton City Contract #                           Page 15 of 33
          7.2. Bonding. If and to the extent required by the City's Vested Laws, unless otherwise

          provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code as amended, security for any Public or

          private Infrastructure—is required by the City Applicant shall provide it in a form

          acceptable to the City as specified in the City's Vested Laws. Partial releases of any such

          required security shall be made as work progresses based on the City's Vested Laws.

     8. Upsizing/Reimbursements to Master Developer.

          8.1. "Upsizing". The City shall not require Master Developer to “upsize” any future

          Public Infrastructure (i.e., to construct the infrastructure to a size larger than required to

          service the Project) created by the Project, unless financial arrangements reasonably

          acceptable to Master Developer are made to compensate Master Developer for the

          incremental or additive costs of such upsizing. For example, if an upsizing to a water

          pipe size increases costs by 10% but adds 50% more capacity, the City shall only be

          responsible to compensate Master Developer for the 10% cost increase. An acceptable

          financial arrangement for upsizing of improvements means reimbursement agreements,

          payback agreements, and impact fee credits and reimbursements.

     9. Default.

          9.1. Notice. If Master Developer or a Subdeveloper or the City fails to perform their

          respective obligations hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing

          that a Default has occurred shall provide Notice to the other Party. If the City believes

          that the Default has been committed by a Subdeveloper then the City shall also provide a

          courtesy copy of the Notice to Master Developer.

          9.2. Contents of the Notice of Default. The Notice of Default shall:

               9.2.1. Specific Claim. Specify the claimed event of Default;
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                           Page 16 of 33
               9.2.2. Applicable Provisions. Identify with particularity the provisions of any

               applicable law, rule, regulation or provision of this MDA that is claimed to be in

               Default;

               9.2.3. Materiality. Identify why the Default is claimed to be material; and

               9.2.4. Optional Cure. If the City chooses, in its discretion, it may propose a method

               and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less than thirty (30) calendar

               days duration.

          9.3. Meet and Confer, Mediation, Arbitration. Upon the issuance of a Notice of

          Default the parties shall engage in the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation” processes

          specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the claimed Default is subject to Arbitration as

          provided in Section 5.8 then the parties shall follow such processes.

          9.4. Remedies. If the parties are not able to resolve the Default by “Meet and Confer” or

          by “Mediation”, and if the Default is not subject to arbitration then the parties may have

          the following remedies, except as specifically limited in 10.9:

               9.4.1. Law and Equity. All rights and remedies available at law and in equity,

               including, but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific performance.

               9.4.2. Security. The right to draw on any security posted or provided in connection

               with the Project and relating to remedying of the particular Default.

               9.4.3. Future Approvals. The right to withhold all further reviews, approvals,

               licenses, building permits and/or other permits for development of the Project in the

               case of a default by Master Developer, or in the case of a default by a Subdeveloper,

               development of those Parcels owned by the Subdeveloper until the Default has been

               cured.
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                          Page 17 of 33
          9.5. Public Meeting. Before any remedy in Section 10.4 may be imposed by the City the

          party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting before the

          City Council and address the City Council regarding the claimed Default.

          9.6. Emergency Defaults. Anything in this MDA notwithstanding, if the City Council

          finds on the record that a default materially impairs a compelling, countervailing interest

          of the City and that any delays in imposing such a default would also impair a

          compelling, countervailing interest of the City then the City may impose the remedies of

          Section 10.4 without the requirements of Sections 10.5. The City shall give Notice to

          Master Developer and/or any applicable Subdeveloper of any public meeting at which an

          emergency default is to be considered and the Master Developer and/or any applicable

          Subdeveloper shall be allowed to address the City Council at that meeting regarding the

          claimed emergency Default.

          9.7. Extended Cure Period. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within thirty (30)

          calendar days then such cure period shall be extended so long as the defaulting party is

          pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

          9.8. Default of Assignee. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee shall not

          be deemed a default of Master Developer.

          9.9. Limitation on Recovery for Default – No Damages. Anything in this MDA

          notwithstanding no Party shall be entitled to any claim for any monetary damages as a

          result of any breach of this MDA and each Party waives any claims thereto. The sole

          remedy available to Master Developer or any Subdeveloper shall be that of specific

          performance.

     10. Notices. All notices required or permitted under this MDA shall, in addition to any other
Last Update Date                           Riverton City Contract #                          Page 18 of 33
means of transmission, be given in writing by certified mail and regular mail to the following

address:

     To the Master Developer:

     NAME
     COMPANY
     MAILING ADDRESS
     CITY, STATE ZIP
     EMAIL
     PHONE

     With a Copy to:

     ATTORNEY NAME
     LAW FIRM
     MAILING ADDRESS
     CITY, STATE ZIP
     EMAIL
     PHONE

     To the City:

     Riverton City
     Attn: City Manager
     12830 South Redwood Road
     Riverton, UT 84065
     (801) 254-0704

     With a Copy to:

     Riverton City
     Attn: City Attorney
     12830 South Redwood Road
     Riverton, UT 84065
     (801) 254-0704



          10.1. Effectiveness of Notice. Except as otherwise provided in this MDA, each Notice

          shall be effective and shall be deemed delivered on the earlier of:

               10.1.1. Hand Delivery. Its actual receipt, if delivered personally, by courier service,
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                         Page 19 of 33
               or by facsimile provided that a copy of the facsimile Notice is mailed or personally

               delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has confirmation

               of transmission receipt of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same day, then

               notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal delivery occurs.

               10.1.2. Electronic Delivery. Its actual receipt if delivered electronically by email

               provided that a copy of the email is printed out in physical form and mailed or

               personally delivered as set forth herein on the same day and the sending party has an

               electronic receipt of the delivery of the Notice. If the copy is not sent on the same

               day, then notice shall be deemed effective the date that the mailing or personal

               delivery occurs.

               10.1.3. Mailing. On the day the Notice is postmarked for mailing, postage prepaid,

               by First Class or Certified United States Mail and actually deposited in or delivered to

               the United States Mail. Any party may change its address for Notice under this MDA

               by giving written Notice to the other party in accordance with the provisions of this

               Section.

     11. Headings. The captions used in this MDA are for convenience only and a not intended

to be substantive provisions or evidences of intent.

     12. No Third-Party Rights/No Joint Venture. This MDA does not create a joint venture

relationship, partnership or agency relationship between the City, or Master Developer. Further,

the parties do not intend this MDA to create any third-party beneficiary rights. The Parties

acknowledge that this MDA refers to a private development and that the City has no interest in,

responsibility for or duty to any third parties concerning any improvements to the Property or

unless the City has accepted the dedication of such improvements at which time all rights and
Last Update Date                             Riverton City Contract #                         Page 20 of 33
responsibilities—except for warranty bond requirements under City’s Vested Laws and as

allowed by state law—for the dedicated public improvement shall be the City's.

     13. Assignability. The rights and responsibilities of Master Developer under this MDA may

be assigned in whole or in part, respectively, by Master Developer with the consent of the City as

provided herein.

          13.1. Sale of Units. Master Developer’s selling or conveying Units in any approved

          Subdivision or Parcels to builders, users, or Subdevelopers, shall not be deemed to be an

          “assignment” subject to the above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically

          designated as such an assignment by Master Developer.

          13.2. Related Entity. Master Developer’s transfer of all or any part of the Property to

          any entity “related” to Master Developer (as defined by regulations of the Internal

          Revenue Service in Section 165), Master Developer’s entry into a joint venture for the

          development of the Project or Master Developer’s pledging of part or all of the Project as

          security for financing shall also not be deemed to be an “assignment” subject to the

          above-referenced approval by the City unless specifically designated as such an

          assignment by the Master Developer. Master Developer shall give the City Notice of any

          event specified in this sub-section within fifteen (15) calendar days after the event has

          occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact

          information for the newly responsible party.

          13.3. Notice. Master Developer shall give Notice to the City of any proposed

          assignment and provide such information regarding the proposed assignee that the City

          may reasonably request in making the evaluation permitted under this Section. Such

          Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact information for the
Last Update Date                            Riverton City Contract #                         Page 21 of 33
          proposed assignee.

          13.4. Time for Objection. Unless the City objects in writing within thirty (30) calendar

          days of notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to the

          assignment.

          13.5. Partial Assignment. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Master

          Developer’s rights and responsibilities then the assignee shall be responsible for the

          performance of each of the obligations contained in this MDA to which the assignee

          succeeds. Upon any such approved partial assignment Master Developer shall not be

          released from any future obligations as to those obligations which are assigned but shall

          remain responsible for the performance of any obligations herein.

          13.6. Denial. The City may only withhold its consent if the City is not reasonably

          satisfied of the assignee’s financial ability to perform the obligations of or Master

          Developer proposed to be assigned or there is an existing breach of a development

          obligation owed to the City by the assignee or related entity that has not either been cured

          or in the process of being cured in a manner acceptable to the City. Any refusal of the

          City to accept an assignment shall be subject to the “Meet and Confer” and “Mediation”

          processes specified in Sections 5.5 and 5.7. If the refusal is subject to Arbitration as

          provided in Section 5.8 then the Parties shall follow such processes.

          13.7. Assignees Bound by MDA. Any assignee shall consent in writing to be bound by

          the assigned terms and conditions of this MDA as a condition precedent to the

          effectiveness of the assignment. That consent shall specifically acknowledge the

          provisions of Section 2.

     14. Binding Effect. If Master Developer sells or conveys Parcels of lands to Subdevelopers
Last Update Date                            Riverton City Contract #                          Page 22 of 33
or related parties, the lands so sold and conveyed shall bear the same rights, privileges,

configurations, and number of Commercial Tenant Units as applicable to such Parcel and be

subject to the same limitations and rights of the City when owned by or Master Developer and as

set forth in this MDA without any required approval, review, or consent by the City except as

otherwise provided herein.

     15. No Waiver. Failure of any Party hereto to exercise any right hereunder shall not be

deemed a waiver of any such right and shall not affect the right of such party to exercise at some

future date any such right or any other right it may have.

     16. Severability. If any provision of this MDA is held by a court of competent jurisdiction

to be invalid for any reason, the Parties consider and intend that this MDA shall be deemed

amended to the extent necessary to make it consistent with such decision and the balance of this

MDA shall remain in full force and affect.

     17. Force Majeure. Any prevention, delay or stoppage of the performance of any obligation

under this Agreement which is due to strikes, labor disputes, inability to obtain labor, materials,

equipment or reasonable substitutes therefor; acts of nature, governmental restrictions,

regulations or controls, judicial orders, enemy or hostile government actions, wars, civil

commotions, fires or other casualties or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party

obligated to perform hereunder shall excuse performance of the obligation by that Party for a

period equal to the duration of that prevention, delay or stoppage.

     18. Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence to this MDA and every right or

responsibility shall be performed within the times specified.

     19. Appointment of Representatives. To further the commitment of the Parties to

cooperate in the implementation of this MDA, the City and Master Developer each shall
Last Update Date                         Riverton City Contract #                            Page 23 of 33
designate and appoint a representative to act as a liaison between the City and its various

departments and the Master Developer. The initial representative for the City shall be the City

Manager. The initial representative for Master Developer shall be xxxxx. The Parties may

change their designated representatives by Notice. The representatives shall be available at all

reasonable times to discuss and review the performance of the Parties to this MDA and the

development of the Project.

     20. Applicable Law. This MDA is entered into in Salt Lake County in the State of Utah and

shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah irrespective of Utah’s choice

of law rules.

     21. Venue. Any action to enforce this MDA shall be brought only in the Third District Court

for the State of Utah, Salt Lake City Division.

     22. Entire Agreement. This MDA, and all Exhibits thereto, is the entire agreement between

the Parties and may not be amended or modified except either as provided herein or by a

subsequent written amendment signed by all Parties.

     23. Mutual Drafting. Each Party has participated in negotiating and drafting this MDA and

therefore no provision of this MDA shall be construed for or against any Party based on which

Party drafted any particular portion of this MDA.

     24. Recordation and Running with the Land. This MDA shall be recorded in the chain of

title for the Project. This MDA shall be deemed to run with the land.

     25. Authority. The Parties to this MDA each warrant that they have all of the necessary

authority to execute this MDA. Specifically, on behalf of the City, the signature of the City

Manager of the City is affixed to this MDA lawfully binding the City pursuant to Resolution No.

___ adopted by the City on month xx, 20xx.
Last Update Date                         Riverton City Contract #                         Page 24 of 33
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and through

their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above written.

MASTER DEVELOPER                                CITY
party to MDA                                    Riverton City

_______________________                        _____________________
By: ________________                           By: ___________,
Its: _________________                         Its: City Manager
Date: ____________                             Date: ____________

Approved as to form and legality:               Attest:

__________________                              __________________
City Attorney                                   City Recorder

CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                  )
                                   :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

On the _xx__ day of month, 20xx personally appeared before me ___________who being by me
duly sworn, did say that he is the City Manager of Riverton City, a political subdivision of the
State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed in behalf of the City by authority of its City
Council and said City Manager acknowledged to me that the City executed the same.

                                                __________________________________
                                                NOTARY PUBLIC


My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




Last Update Date                          Riverton City Contract #                         Page 25 of 33
MASTER DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH       )
                    :ss.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )

       On the _xx__ day of month, 20xx, personally appeared before me ______________, who
being by me duly sworn, did say that he is the Manager of Michel Land, a Utah limited liability
company and that the foregoing instrument was duly authorized by the company at a lawful
meeting held by authority of its operating agreement and signed in behalf of said company.

                                                        ______________________________
                                                        NOTARY PUBLIC

My Commission Expires: ________________

Residing at: _________________________




Last Update Date                       Riverton City Contract #                       Page 26 of 33
                   TABLE OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit “A”                Legal Description of Property
Exhibit “B”                Subdivision Plan with Private Lane
Exhibit “C”                Stormwater Management Plan
Exhibit “D”                Landscape Watering Provisions
Exhibit “E”                Revegetation Plan
Exhibit “F”                Sound Mitigation Plan




Last Update Date     Riverton City Contract #                   Page 27 of 33
Pedestrian Oriented Overlay Zone
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.130 PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED OVERLAY (PO-OV) ZONE                               Page 1 of 4




                                             Chapter 18.130
                               PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED OVERLAY (PO-OV) ZONE

Sections:
18.130.010    Purpose.

18.130.020    Permitted uses.

18.130.030    Conditional uses.

18.130.040    Prohibited uses.

18.130.050    Setback requirements.

18.130.060    Architectural standards.

18.130.070    Applicability.

18.130.080    Parking areas.

18.130.090    Underlying zoning.

18.130.010 Purpose.
The pedestrian oriented overlay (PO-OV) zone is established to preserve and encourage the pedestrian
character of commercial areas and to promote street life and activity by regulating building orientation and
design and accessory parking facilities, focusing on pedestrian friendly uses, and by prohibiting certain high
impact and automobile-oriented uses.

Generally, uses that are conducive to this zone will be smaller-scale and “boutique” style retail and office uses,
restaurants, and cultural uses. When possible, these uses shall be required to integrate and consolidate shared
driveways, ingress and egress, green spaces, signage, pedestrian access and parking. [Ord. 16-09 § 1 (Exh.
A).]

18.130.020 Permitted uses.
The following uses are permitted and allowed in the PO-OV zone; provided, that the regulations and intent of this
zone are met:

(1) Beauty salon or barber shop.

(2) Bakery.

(3) General retail.



                  The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 24-06, passed May 7, 2024.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.130 PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED OVERLAY (PO-OV) ZONE                                Page 2 of 4




(4) Drug store or pharmacy.

(5) Professional office.

(6) Restaurant, sit down. [Ord. 16-09 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.130.030 Conditional uses.
The following uses, but not limited to the following uses, are conditional and may be considered uses within the
PO-OV zone; provided, that the regulations and intent of this zone are adhered to:

(1) Drive-through window.

(2) Restaurant, fast food. [Ord. 16-09 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.130.040 Prohibited uses.
The following uses are prohibited in the PO-OV zone:

(1) Auto repair and related services.

(2) Auto sales and service.

(3) Gas station/convenience store.

(4) Grocery store.

(5) Storage/warehouse facilities.

(6) Check cashing/title loan businesses.

(7) Tobacco retailers.

(8) E-cigarette, including “vapor” businesses.

(9) Pawn shops.

(10) Any use not permitted in the underlying zone. [Ord. 16-09 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.130.050 Setback requirements.
(1) Adjacent to Public Streets. All buildings adjacent to public streets shall be set back a minimum of five feet
from property line.

(2) Side Yard Setbacks.



                  The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 24-06, passed May 7, 2024.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.130 PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED OVERLAY (PO-OV) ZONE                               Page 3 of 4




     (a) Compatible Land Uses. Setbacks between buildings of compatible land use may have a zero setback if
     both buildings are constructed with a one-hour fire wall. Otherwise, the setbacks shall be a minimum of 15
     feet for adequate access.

     (b) Noncompatible Land Uses. When located adjacent to a residential district (excepting recognizable
     holding zones for future commercial development), side yard setbacks shall be a minimum of 20 feet.
     Adjacent to compatible uses, the minimum rear yard setback shall be five feet.

(3) Rear Yard Setbacks. Where adjacent to residential zones, the minimum rear yard setback shall be one foot
for every one foot in building height. However, there shall be a minimum setback of 20 feet. Adjacent to
compatible uses, the minimum rear yard setback shall be 20 feet.

(4) Setbacks shall be measured to the foundation. [Ord. 16-09 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.130.060 Architectural standards.
Building architecture shall follow the standards of the underlying zone. However, special sensitivity shall be
given to pedestrian focused design, including, but not limited to, the following:

(1) Outdoor seating areas, including street furniture, planter boxes, etc.

(2) Direct access from sidewalk and other pedestrian areas.

(3) Use of awnings and canopies to emphasize outdoor spaces.

(4) Enhanced visibility by use of street level windows and storefront glass.

(5) Screening of parking areas, and utility and waste structures.

(6) Building massing and scale appropriate to pedestrian focus.

(7) Shared courtyard and outdoor spaces.

(8) Landscape design and amenities that allow for pedestrian and customer interaction and use. [Ord. 16-09 § 1
(Exh. A).]

18.130.070 Applicability.
The PO-OV shall be applied to following commercial zones only:

(1) Commercial downtown (C-D).

(2) Commercial neighborhood (C-N).



                 The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 24-06, passed May 7, 2024.
Riverton City Code Chapter 18.130 PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED OVERLAY (PO-OV) ZONE                                  Page 4 of 4




(3) Commercial gateway (C-G).

(4) Commercial professional office (C-PO).

(5) Commercial regional (C-R).

(6) Planned commercial center (PCC).

Application for the PO-OV zone shall be for a parcel of not less than one-half acre in size and a maximum of five
acres, and shall only apply to parcels that have frontage on a public right-of-way. Each parcel shall also be of
sufficient size to assure compliance with the city’s off-street parking, landscaping, and site plan requirements.
The city may deny any application under this section which is not conducive to the intent of this title. [Ord. 16-09
§ 1 (Exh. A).]

18.130.080 Parking areas.
(1) Arrangement. Parking shall be arranged for convenient access and visibility, but also contained by buildings
and landscaping. The site plan shall be designed to encourage parking locations to be on the side and/or rear of
the buildings. Parking shall be allowed in the front of the building only if it can be demonstrated that site
constraints are not conducive to any other arrangement. [Ord. 16-09 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.130.090 Underlying zoning.
The underlying zoning, and any and all applicable sections of Riverton City Code, shall apply where this chapter
is silent. [Ord. 16-09 § 1 (Exh. A).]




                  The Riverton City Code is current through Ordinance 24-06, passed May 7, 2024.
